

Los Angeles Municipal Code


CHAPTER VIII
TRAFFIC



 



 



   Division



 




   A   Obedience to Traffic Regulations











   B   Traffic Control Devices











   C   Turning Movements











   D   One Way Streets and Alleys











   E   Special Stops Required











   F   Miscellaneous Driving Rules











   G   Terminal Access for Interstate Trucks











   H   Restricted Use of Certain Streets











   I   Pedestrians











   K   Method of Parking











   L   Stopping, Standing and Parking











   M   Stopping for Loading and Unloading Only











   N   Parking Prohibited or Limited











   O   Penalties and Effect of Chapter











   P   Schedules of Designated Streets Referred to in Chapter [Speed
Zone Schedules]











   Q   Miscellaneous











   R   Traffic Regulation in Park











   S   Traffic Regulations in the Harbor District











   T   Operation of Unusual Types of Vehicles Creating Traffic Problems











   U   Parking on Public Street and Parking on Publicly Owned
Off-Street Parking Facilities











   V   Traffic Regulations Within the Los Angeles International and Van
Nuys Airports











   W   Establishment of Civil Parking Penalties




 



 



 




CHAPTER VIII




 




TRAFFIC




 



 



Section



80.00   Definitions.



 



 



SEC. 80.00.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   For the purpose of this chapter the following words and phrases are
defined and shall be construed as hereinafter set out unless it shall be
apparent from the context that they have a different meaning.



 



   (a)   Whenever any words and phrases used in this chapter are not
defined herein but are now defined in the Vehicle Code of the state, such
definitions are incorporated herein and shall be deemed to apply to such
words and phrases used in this chapter as though set forth herein in full.



 



   (b)   “Department” shall mean the Department of Transportation.
(Amended by Ord. No. 151,833, Eff. 2/10/79, Oper. 2/25/79.)



 



   (c)   “Central Traffic District” shall mean all streets and
portions of streets described as follows:



 



   All that area bounded by the east curb line of Los Angeles Street, the
south curb line of Pico Boulevard, the west curb line of Figueroa Street, and
the north curb line of Cesar Chavez Avenue.  (Amended by Ord. No. 180,092,
Eff. 9/7/08.)



 



   The Central Traffic District shall also include Broadway Place from
Olympic Boulevard to Main Street.



 



   (d)   “Commissioners” or “Board” shall mean the Board of
Transportation Commissioners. (Amended by Ord. No. 151,833, Eff. 2/10/79,
Oper. 2/25/79.)



 



   (e)   “Loading Zone” shall mean that space adjacent to a curb
reserved for the exclusive use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of
passengers or materials.



 



   (f)   “California Traffic Manual” shall mean that book of
traffic engineering standards and instructions formulated and published by
the Department of Transportation of the State of California. Three copies of
said manual, together with all approved amendments and additions, shall be
kept available to the public in the Department of Transportation. (Amended by
Ord. No. 151,833, Eff. 2/10/79, Oper. 2/25/79.)



 



   (g)   "Traffic Officer" shall mean a civilian employee designated by
the Transportation Department to direct traffic at intersections or other
places and to enforce parking restrictions.  Employees of other departments
may also be designated by resolution or ordinance as Traffic Officers but
only for the limited purpose of issuing specified parking citations and
abatement of public nuisance vehicles under the direction and control of the
employing departments.  Such employees shall be trained to perform their
specified duties by the Transportation Department.  (Amended by Ord. No.
182,240, Eff. 10/7/12.)



 



   (h)   "Parkway" shall mean the area of the public right-of-way not
intended for vehicular use between the sidewalk and the curb (or where no
curb exists between the sidewalk and the public street), which the City has
reserved for landscaping and utilities.  (Amended by Ord. No. 185,036, Eff.
8/14/17.)



 



   (i)   “Passenger Loading Zone” shall mean that space adjacent to
a curb reserved for the exclusive use of vehicles during the loading or
unloading of passengers.



 



   (j)   “Pedestrian” shall mean any person afoot.



 



   (k)   “Police Officer” shall mean every officer of the Police
Department of this City



 



   (l)   (None)



 



   (m)   (None)



 



   (n)   (None)



 



   (o)   (None)



 



   (p)   (None)



 



   (q)   Whenever, by any provision of this chapter, the approval of
the Council is required as to any action taken by the Commissioners or the
Department, such approval may be granted by resolution or order unless it be
specifically provided that such approval be given by ordinance. (Amended by
Ord. No. 134,523, Eff. 7/17/67.)



 



   (r)   "Parking Meter Zone" shall mean streets or portions of streets
described and established by the City Council by resolution or ordinance as
zones within which the parking of vehicles shall be controlled, regulated and
inspected with the aid of parking meters.  (Amended by Ord. No. 180,092,
Eff. 9/7/08.)



 



   (s)   "Parking Meter Space" shall mean an area of space adjacent to
and controlled by a parking meter upon any street or designated by lines or
other markings, and of sufficient size to permit the parking of only one
vehicle.  (Amended by Ord. No. 180,092, Eff. 9/7/08.)



 



   (t)   "Parking Meter Space Number" shall mean a designated number
installed upon the curb or sidewalk area, on a posted sign, or upon a clearly
visible vertical surface immediately adjacent to a parking meter space for
the purpose of identifying the space for payment at a parking meter. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 180,092, Eff. 9/7/08.)



 



   (u)   "Parking Meter" shall mean and include any mechanical and/or
electronic device installed within or upon the curb or sidewalk area adjacent
to a parking meter space or spaces for the purpose of recording the period of
time for occupancy of such parking meter space or spaces by any vehicle. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 180,092, Eff. 9/7/08.)



 



   (v)   “Publicly Owned Off-Street Parking Facility” shall mean
any location, lot or space which is owned or leased by the City of Los
Angeles and in or upon which the parking of vehicles is regulated, controlled
or inspected with the aid of off-street parking meters, or signs erected
pursuant to Section 88.64. (Amended by Ord. No. 114,947, Eff. 11/30/59.)



 



   (w)   "Off-Street Parking Meter Space" shall mean an area of space
adjacent to and controlled by an off-street parking meter upon any publicly
owned off-street parking facility designated by lines or other markings and
of sufficient size to permit the parking of only one vehicle.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 180,092, Eff. 9/7/08.)



 



   (x)   "Off-Street Parking Meter Space Number" shall mean a
designated number installed upon the pavement surface, on a posted sign, or
upon a clearly visible vertical surface immediately adjacent to an off-street
parking meter space for the purpose of identifying the space for payment at a
parking meter.  (Amended by Ord. No. 180,092, Eff. 9/7/08.)



 



   (y)   "Off-Street Parking Meter" shall mean and include any
mechanical and/or electronic device installed within or upon any publicly
owned off-street parking facility area adjacent to or in the vicinity of an
off-street parking meter space or spaces for the purpose of recording the
period of time for occupancy of such off-street parking meter space or spaces
by any vehicle.  (Added by Ord. No. 180,092, Eff. 9/7/08.)



 



   (z)   “Trailer” shall mean a vehicle without motive power
designed to be drawn by a motor vehicle, and to be used for human habitation,
or for carrying persons or property, including but not limited to a trailer
coach or house trailer. (Added by Ord. No. 113,890, Eff. 8/15/59.)



 



   (z-1)   “Semitrailer” shall mean a trailer drawn by a motor
vehicle and so constructed that some part of its weight and that of its load
rests upon or is carried by another vehicle. (Added by Ord. No. 150,482, Eff.
2/9/78.)



 



   (z-2)   “Construction vehicle” shall mean any vehicle used
primarily off the street or highway for construction purposes.  (Added by
Ord. No. 148,582, Eff. 8/18/76.)



 



 



 



DIVISION “A”
OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC REGULATIONS



 



 



Section



80.01   Duties of Officers.



80.01.1   Arrest Authority.



80.02   Obedience to Officers.



80.03   Direction of Traffic.



80.03.1   Traffic Control at Commercial Filming Sites.



80.04   Governmental Vehicles.



80.05   Exemptions to Certain Vehicles.



80.06   Parking Control.



80.06.1   Administrative Procedures for Violations of Section 62.61, Work
Within or on a Public Street or Right-of-way, Obstruction of a Public Street
or Right-of-way, Peak Traffic Hours Restrictions.



 



 



SEC. 80.01.  DUTIES OF OFFICERS.



 



   Police Officers and Traffic Officers are hereby authorized to direct
all traffic by voice, hand or signal whenever and wherever necessary in the
interest of safety or to expedite the flow of traffic. (Amended by Ord. No.
151,833, Eff. 2/10/79, Oper. 2/25/79.)



 



 



SEC. 80.01.1.  ARREST AUTHORITY.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 176,840, Eff. 9/4/05.)



 



   Every Traffic Officer of the Transportation Department shall have the
power, authority and immunity of a public officer or employee, as set forth
in the Penal Code of the State of California, Section 836.5, to make arrests
without a warrant whenever he or she has reasonable cause to believe that the
person to be arrested has in his or her presence committed a violation of any
criminal regulation set forth in Chapter VIII of the Municipal Code and the
following sections of the Los Angeles Municipal Code:



 



 




12.21 A.1.(a)

 

56.11

 

66.25




12.21 A.6.

 

62.45(b)

 

67.02(a)




12.21 A.8.

 

62.49(a)

 

91.1608




12.21 C.1.(g)

 

62.51-1(e)

 

94.0605(d)




12.26 E.

 

62.79

 

96.02




12.26 I.4.

 

62.80

 

114.04






 

62.96(a)

 

114.05




41.45

 

62.130

 






42.00

 

64.30 with respect to storm drain systems and waters of the State

 






56.08

 







 



or is a violation of State of California Penal Code Section 556 or 556.1. 
The provisions of Penal Code Section 836.5 regarding issuance of a written
promise to appear shall be applicable to arrests authorized herein.



 



 



SEC. 80.02.  OBEDIENCE TO OFFICERS.



 



   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful
order, direction or signal of a Police Officer or Traffic Officer. (Amended
by Ord. No. 151,833, Eff. 2/10/79, Oper. 2/25/79.)



 



   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code, violation of this
section is an infraction. (Added by Ord. No. 153,590, Eff. 5/11/80.)



 



 



SEC. 80.03.  DIRECTION OF TRAFFIC.



 



   No person other than a Police Officer, a person deputized by the Chief
of Police, a Traffic Officer, or an off duty or retired police officer
authorized under the provisions of Section 80.03.1 shall direct or attempt to
direct traffic by voice, hand or other signal, provided however, that a
member of the Fire Department, wearing the badge or insignia of a fire
fighter and acting in the course of his or her duties, may direct traffic to
protect the personnel and equipment of the Fire Department. Persons may
operate, when and as herein provided, any mechanical push button signal
erected pursuant to this chapter. (Amended by Ord. No. 164,340, Eff. 2/20/89.)



 



 



SEC. 80.03.1.  TRAFFIC CONTROL AT COMMERCIAL FILMING SITES.



   (Added by Ord. No. 164,340, Eff. 2/20/89.)



 



   A.   Permit to Engage in Crowd and Traffic Control.  The Chief of
Police shall establish rules and regulations which shall govern the control
of traffic and crowds on public property by retired and off-duty Los Angeles
Police Officers employed by a person holding a valid permit pursuant to
Section 22.350 of the Los Angeles Administrative Code. Pursuant to said rules
and regulations, the Chief of Police or his or her designee, in his or her
discretion, may authorize and grant a permit to off-duty and retired Los
Angeles Police Officers to engage in traffic and crowd control on public
property. Said permits shall be limited to performance of traffic and crowd
control at those times and places authorized in the permit issued pursuant to
Section 22.350etseq. of the Los Angeles Administrative Code.



 



   B.   Revocation, Suspension Or Denial Of Permits.  A permit
provided for in this section may be revoked, suspended, or denied for any of
the following reasons:



 



   1.   violation of applicable law; or



 



   2.   violation of any rule or regulation adopted hereunder; or



 



   3.   upon a finding of inability, lack of necessary expertise, or
willful or negligent failure to properly and safely perform the duties for
which the permit is granted.



 



   C.   Notice And Hearing.  No permit issued or applied for pursuant
to this section shall be revoked, suspended, or denied until a hearing is
held by a Deputy Chief of Police appointed by the Chief of Police to conduct
such hearing. Service of notices and the conduct of the hearing shall be in
conformance with the requirements of Sections 11.00 and 22.02 of the LAMC.



 



 



SEC. 80.04.  GOVERNMENTAL VEHICLES.



 



   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the driver of any vehicle
owned by or used in the service of the United States Government, this State,
any county or city, except as otherwise permitted in this chapter.



 



 



SEC. 80.05.  EXEMPTIONS TO CERTAIN VEHICLES.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 181,585, Eff. 3/30/11.)

   (a)   The provisions of this chapter regulating the operation,
parking and standing of vehicles shall not apply to any Police or Fire
Department vehicle, or any public ambulance or any public utility vehicle, or
any private ambulance, which public utility or private ambulance has
qualified as an authorized emergency vehicle, when any vehicle mentioned in
this section is operated in the manner specified in the Vehicle Code in
response to an emergency call.



 



   Nor shall the provisions of this chapter regulating the operation,
parking and standing of vehicles apply to any vehicle or cart of the
Transportation Department while used by a Traffic Officer, or of the Los
Angeles Police Department while used by a law enforcement officer, in the
performance of such person's official duties.



 



   (b)   The foregoing exemptions shall not, however, protect the
driver of any such vehicle from the consequences of his or her willful
disregard of the safety of others.



 



   (c)   The provisions of this chapter regulating the parking or
standing of vehicles shall not apply to any vehicle of a City department or
public utility while necessarily in use for construction or repair work, or
while engaged in the collection of garbage or noncombustible rubbish, where
compliance therewith would obstruct such operation, or any vehicle owned by
the United States while in use for the collection, transportation or delivery
of United States mail, or to any vehicle owned and operated by the Department
of Defense during periods of proclaimed national emergency.



 



   (d)   Pursuant to California Vehicle Code Section 21114.5, Los
Angeles Police Officers are authorized to deploy and operate three-wheeled
electric vehicles/carts on public sidewalks during the course of their
employment.



 



 



SEC. 80.06.  PARKING CONTROL.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 168,783, Eff. 7/12/93, Oper. 7/1/93.)



 



   (a)   Traffic Officers are hereby authorized to issue parking
citations as provided in Division 17, Article 3 of the Vehicle Code and to
perform other related duties as may be required by the General Manager,
Department of Transportation.



 



   (b)   Members of the Fire Department are hereby authorized to issue
parking citations as provided in Division 17, Article 3 of the Vehicle Code
when an illegally parked vehicle blocks access to a fire hydrant, obstructs
access to or from a fire station, or occupies a designated fire lane.



 



   (c)   The Department is hereby authorized to conduct administrative
investigations of parking citations and administrative hearings in accordance
with Division 17, Article 3 of the Vehicle Code.



 



 



SEC. 80.06.1.  ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES FOR VIOLATIONS OF SECTION 62.61,
WORK WITHIN OR ON A PUBLIC STREET OR RIGHT-OF-WAY, OBSTRUCTION OF A PUBLIC
STREET OR RIGHT-OF-WAY, PEAK TRAFFIC HOURS RESTRICTIONS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 178,104, Eff. 1/9/07.)



 



   (a)   Service Procedures for Issuing Administrative Citations.



 



   1.   An administrative citation in a form approved by the City may
be issued to the responsible party by an enforcement officer for violations
of those sections set forth in Section 62.61 of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code in the following manner:



 



   (i)   Personal Service of Administrative Citation.  In any case
where an administrative citation is issued to an individual, corporation, or
a business, the enforcement officer shall attempt to:



 



   A.   Locate the individual, corporation or business and serve the
administrative citation to the responsible person or party.



 



   B.   Obtain on the administrative citation the signature of the
person in violation of this code, or in cases in which the violation of this
code is by a corporation or business, the signature of the responsible person
or party.



 



   C.   If the responsible person or party served refuses or fails to
sign the administrative citation, the failure or refusal to sign shall not
affect the validity of the citation or of subsequent proceedings.



 



   2.   Service of Citation by Mail.  If the enforcement officer is
unable to locate the responsible person for the violation, the administrative
citation shall be mailed to the responsible person by certified mail, postage
prepaid, return receipt requested.  Simultaneously, the same notice may be
sent by regular mail.  If a notice sent by certified mail is returned
unsigned, then service shall be deemed effective pursuant to regular mail,
provided the notice that was sent by regular mail is not returned.



 



   3.   Service of Citation by Posting Notice.  If the enforcement
officer does not succeed in serving the responsible party personally, or by
certified mail or regular mail, the enforcement officer shall post the
administrative citation on any real property within the City in which the
City has knowledge that the responsible party has a legal interest, and that
posting shall be deemed effective service.



 



   4.   Service of Citation by Publication.  If the enforcement
officer does not succeed in serving the responsible party personally by
certified mail or regular mail, and the City is not aware that the
responsible party has a legal interest in any real property within the City,
the enforcement officer shall cause the administrative citation to be
published in a newspaper likely to give actual notice to the responsible
party.  The publication shall be once a week for four successive weeks in a
newspaper published at least once a week.



 



   (b)   Contents of Administrative Citations.  Administrative
citations shall contain all of the following information:



 



   1.   The date and location of the violation and the approximate time
the violation was observed;



 



   2.   The code section violated and a description of how the section
was violated;



 



   3.   The action required to correct the violation;



 



   4.   The consequences of failing to correct the violation;



 



   5.   The amount of penalty imposed for the violation;



 



   6.   Information regarding the procedure to contest the citation;



 



   7.   The signature of the enforcement officer and the signature of
the responsible person if that person can be located and will sign the
citation, as set forth in this section.



 



   (c)   Satisfaction of Administrative Citation.



 



   1.   Upon receipt of a citation, the responsible party shall either:



 



   (i)   Pay the Penalty.  Payment of the penalty waives the
responsible party's right to the administrative hearing and appeal process
pursuant to Paragraph (iii), below; or



 



   (ii)   Remedy the Violation.  If the violation is of a nature that
it can be remedied, and the responsible party remedies it within the time
indicated on the citation, upon providing proof of correction to the
enforcement officer the responsible party shall pay only the administrative
reimbursement portion of the penalty; or



 



   (iii)   Request an Administrative Hearing.  If the responsible
party chooses to contest the citation, the party shall do so no later than 15
calendar days, excluding weekends and holidays, after service of the
citation.  The request shall be submitted in writing as directed on the
citation and shall include a statement of reasons why the citation is being
contested.  The request shall be accompanied by a deposit in the full amount
of the penalty, inclusive of the administrative reimbursement portion, or
written proof of financial hardship, which at a minimum must include tax
returns, financial statements, bank account records, salary records or
similar documentation demonstrating that the responsible party is unable to
deposit the penalty.  A hearing will not be scheduled unless the full amount
of the penalty is deposited, or the City finds the responsible party
financially unable to do so and waives the deposit requirement.



 



   In the event the responsible party fails or refuses to select and
satisfy any of the alternatives set forth in Paragraphs (i), (ii) or (iii)
above, then the penalty shall be immediately due and owing to the City and
may be collected in any manner allowed by law for collection of a debt. 
Commencement of an action to collect the delinquent penalty shall not
preclude issuance of additional citations to the responsible party should the
violations persist.



 



   (d)   Administrative Hearings and Appeal Process.



 



   1.   Pre-hearing Dismissal of Citation.  The City may dismiss an
administrative citation at any time if it is determined to have been issued
in error, in which event any deposit made shall be refunded.



 



   2.   Time for Administrative Hearing.  The administrative hearing
shall be scheduled no later than 90 days after receipt of the request for a
hearing to contest the citation.  The responsible party will be notified in
writing at least ten days prior to the date of the hearing by first class
mail of the date and time of the hearing.



 



   3.   Appointment of Administrative Hearing Officer.  The hearing
shall be conducted by an Administrative Hearing Officer appointed by the City
to perform hearings.



 



   4.   Request for Continuance of Hearing.  The responsible person
may request one continuance of the hearing, but in no event may the hearing
begin later than 90 days after receipt of the request for hearing from the
responsible person.



 



   5.   Failure to Attend Administrative Hearing.  The individual to
whom an administrative citation is issued, or that person's representative,
may attend the hearing in person, or in lieu of attending may submit an
Appearance by Written Declaration on a form provided by the City for that
purpose.



 



   (i)   If the cited individual or his or her representative fails to
attend the scheduled hearing, or fails to submit an Appearance by Written
Declaration on the form provided by the City for that purpose, he or she
shall be deemed to have waived his or her right to an administrative
hearing.  Under these circumstances, the Administrative Hearing Officer
shall dismiss the challenge to the administrative citation, and shall issue a
written notice to that effect.  An individual whose challenge to an
administrative citation is dismissed under this section shall be deemed not
to have availed himself or herself of the right to an administrative hearing
as provided in this chapter.



 



   (ii)   An individual who has been issued an administrative citation
and who has requested an administrative hearing to challenge the citation as
provided in this chapter may request in writing that his or her challenge to
the citation be dismissed and the hearing canceled.  Upon receipt of a
request to dismiss a challenge to the administrative citation, the City shall
cancel the pending hearing, and issue a written notice to that effect.  Any
individual who requests the dismissal of a challenge to an administrative
citation under this section shall be deemed never to have availed himself or
herself of the right to an administrative hearing as provided in this chapter.



 



   6.   Procedures at Administrative Hearing.  Administrative hearings
are informal, and formal rules of evidence and discovery do not apply.  Each
party shall have the opportunity to present evidence in support of his or her
case and to cross-examine witnesses.  The City bears the burden of proof at
an administrative hearing to establish a violation.  The citation is prima
facie evidence of the violation and the enforcement officer who issued the
citation is not required to participate in the hearing.  The Administrative
Hearing Officer shall use preponderance of the evidence as the standard of
evidence in deciding the issues.  Evidence shall be submitted under penalty
of perjury.



 



   7.   Decision of Administrative Hearing Officer.  At the conclusion
of the hearing or within 15 days thereafter, the Administrative Hearing
Officer shall render a decision as follows:



 



   (i)   Determine that the violation for which the citation was issued
occurred, and impose a fine in the amount set forth in the penalty schedule,
inclusive of the administrative reimbursement portion, and if the violation
has not been corrected as of the date of the hearing, order correction of the
violation; or



 



   (ii)   Determine that the violation for which the citation was
issued occurred, but that the responsible party has introduced credible
evidence of mitigating circumstances warranting imposition of a lesser
penalty than that prescribed in the penalty schedule, or no penalty at all,
and impose a lesser fine, if any, and if the violation has not been corrected
as of the date of the hearing, order that the violation be corrected; or



 



   (iii)   Determine that the violation for which the citation was
issued did not occur or that the condition did not constitute a violation of
the code.



 



   8.   Issuance of Administrative Order.  The Administrative Hearing
Officer shall issue a written decision entitled "Administrative Order" no
later than 15 days after the date on which the administrative hearing
concludes.  The Administrative Order shall be served upon the responsible
person by first class mail, or if that method fails, by any one of the other
methods set forth in this section.  The Administrative Order shall become
final on the date of mailing or other service, and shall notify the
responsible person of his or her right to appeal as provided below in this
section.  The Administrative Order shall also (i) either set a deadline for
compliance with its terms, in the event that the responsible person fails to
file an appeal, in no event less than 20 days from the date of mailing or
other service, or (ii) if the hearing officer determines as described in
Subdivisions 7.(ii) or 7.(iii) immediately above, and the responsible party
has deposited the penalty with the City, order a partial or full refund of
the deposit.



 



   9.   Appeal to Administrative Order.  Within 20 days after mailing
or other service of the Administrative Order to the responsible person, he or
she may seek review of the Administrative Order by filing a notice of appeal
with the Superior Court, pursuant to California Government Code Section
53069.4.  The responsible person shall serve upon the City Clerk either in
person or by first-class mail a copy of the notice of appeal.  If the
responsible person fails to timely file a notice of appeal, the
Administrative Order shall be deemed final.



 



   10.   Failure to Comply With Administrative Order.  Failure to
comply with an Administrative Order directing the abatement of a continuing
violation is a misdemeanor.  In that event, or if the City prevails in an
appeal of an Order to the Superior Court pursuant to Subdivision 9. above,
and the responsible person fails to comply with the Administrative Order, the
City may file a criminal misdemeanor action against the responsible person. 
Filing a criminal misdemeanor action does not preclude the City from using
any other legal remedy available to gain compliance with the Administrative
Order.  For purposes of this Subdivision 10., the term "continuing
violation" shall mean a single, ongoing condition or activity in violation of
the Los Angeles Municipal Code.



 



 



 



DIVISION “B”
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES



 



 



Section



80.07   Traffic Control Devices – Powers and Duties of the Department.



80.07.1   Traffic Control Devices and Other Signs – Remove or
Discontinuance.



80.07.2   Traffic Control Devices – Hours of Operation.



80.08   Installation of Traffic Signals.



80.08.2   Department to Install Traffic Markings.



80.08.3   Removal of Unauthorized Signs, Signals, and Lights.



80.08.4   Flashing Lights – Interference with Traffic Signals.



80.08.5   Off-center Lane Movement – Establishment.



80.08.6   Temporary Traffic Controls.



80.08.7   Charges for Providing Traffic Control and for Installation and
Relocation of Parking and Traffic Control Devices.



80.10   Signs Required.



80.11   Right Turns at Signal Controlled Intersections.



80.12   Double Lines.



80.13   Speed Zoning on Other than State Highways.



80.13.1   Speed Zoning on Streets Adjacent to a Children’s Playground.



 



 



SEC. 80.07.  TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES – POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE DEPARTMENT.



 



   (a)   Authorized Installations.  Whenever by any provision of this
chapter, the Department is authorized to install any traffic control devices,
and such authority is made dependent upon a determination of the need
therefor, it shall be the duty of the Department to make such determination
only upon the basis of traffic engineering principles and traffic
investigations and in accordance with such standards, limitations and rules
as are hereinafter in this chapter laid down with reference to the particular
kind of installation under consideration.



 



   (b)   Directed Installations.  It shall be the duty of the
Department to install traffic control devices at a particular location,
whenever directed to do so by any provision of this chapter or by any
ordinance of this city.



 



   (c)   Installations Essential to Effectiveness of Traffic Laws. 
Whenever any traffic laws of this state, or any traffic regulations set forth
in this chapter, requires for its effectiveness that traffic control devices
be installed to give notice to the public of the operation or application of
such law or regulations, the Department is hereby authorized to install the
necessary devices, subject to any limitations or restrictions set forth in
the law or regulation involved.



 



   (d)   Additional Installations.  Subject to the requirements of
Subsection (a) of this section, the Department is hereby authorized to
install such additional traffic control devices, not expressly provided for
in this chapter, as it determines are necessary to regulate, warn, or guide
traffic, and to remove such devices when it determines that they are no
longer necessary to regulate, warn, or guide traffic. In addition to traffic
control devices, the Department is authorized to install certain signs
relating to public safety, providing such signs are approved by the
Department of Public Works as provided in Section 28.04 and provided further
that no such signs shall conflict with or detract from any traffic control
devices. The Department is also authorized to remove any such sign. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 156,852, Eff. 8/1/82.)



 



   (e)   Authority of the Department Exclusive. The Department of
Transportation shall have the exclusive authority to install, place, maintain
or remove any traffic control device or other type of sign in the City of Los
Angeles except as provided in this Chapter. The Department of Transportation
may delegate its authority to another city agency to install or remove
temporary no parking signs. For purposes of this section, a temporary no
parking sign is a sign marked "temporary" with an effective period not to
exceed 30 days. (Amended by Ord. No. 183,301, Eff. 12/5/14.)



 



   (f)   “Install.”  Authority to install, as the term is used in
this chapter, includes authority to “cause to be installed.”



 



   (g)   “Remove.”  Authority to remove, as the term is used in
this chapter, includes authority to “cause to be removed.”



 



 



SEC. 80.07.1.  TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES AND OTHER SIGNS – REMOVE OR
DISCONTINUANCE.



 



   The Department is hereby authorized to remove, relocate or discontinue
the operation of any traffic control device, or sign, not specifically
required by State law or by this chapter whenever it shall determine in any
particular case that the conditions which warranted or required the
installation no longer exists or obtain.  (Title and section, Amended by
Ord. No. 156,852, Eff. 8/1/82.)



 



 



SEC. 80.07.2.  TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES – HOURS OF OPERATION.



 



   The Department shall determine, in accordance with traffic conditions
prevailing at any particular location, the hours and days during which any
official traffic control device shall be in operation or be in effect. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 134,523, Eff. 7/17/67.)



 



 



SEC. 80.08.  INSTALLATION OF TRAFFIC SIGNALS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 134,523, Eff. 7/17/67.)



 



   (a)   The Department shall install and maintain official traffic
signals at those intersections and other places where traffic conditions are
such as to require that the flow of traffic be alternately interrupted and
released in order to prevent or relieve traffic congestion or to protect life
or property from exceptional hazard.



 



   (b)   The Department is hereby authorized to ascertain and determine
the locations where such signals are required by resort to field
observations, traffic counts and other traffic information as may be
pertinent, and its determinations therefrom shall be made in accordance with
those traffic engineering and safety standards and instructions set forth in
the California Traffic Manual. (Amended by Ord. No. 151,833, Eff. 2/10/79,
Oper. 2/25/79.)



 



 



SEC. 80.08.2.  DEPARTMENT TO INSTALL TRAFFIC MARKINGS.



 



   The Department shall mark center lines, lane lines, symbols and words
and install raised devices or other devices upon the surface of the pavement
to indicate the course to be travelled by vehicles at any place where the
Department determines that such markings or devices are necessary for the
orderly and safe movement of traffic. Such markings and installations shall
be made consistent with state law and in accordance with those standards and
methods set forth in the California Traffic Manual. (Amended by Ord. No.
151,833, Eff. 2/10/79, Oper. 2/25/79.)



 



 



SEC. 80.08.3.  REMOVAL OF UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS, AND LIGHTS.



 



   The Department may, without notice, remove every unofficial sign,
signal or device placed, maintained or displayed upon any City street
contrary to the provisions of the Vehicle Code or of this chapter. (Amended
by Ord. No. 156,852, Eff. 8/1/82.)



 



 



SEC. 80.08.4.  FLASHING LIGHTS – INTERFERENCE WITH TRAFFIC SIGNALS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 146,628, Eff. 11/25/74.)



 



   No person shall erect or maintain any electric sign or similar device
that interferes with the visibility of any traffic control or warning signal.



 



   This section shall not apply to lights used to identify public fire
alarm boxes.



 



   All flashing lights shall comply with existing traffic codes pertaining
to the interference with traffic signals.



 



 



SEC. 80.08.5.  OFF-CENTER LANE MOVEMENT – ESTABLISHMENT.



 



   The Department is hereby authorized to install signs or markers
temporarily designating lanes to be used by traffic moving in a particular
direction on any street, regardless of the center lane of that street or
markings thereon, whenever it determines that such designation will promote
the orderly movement of traffic or reduce congestion.  (Amended by Ord. No.
134,523, Eff. 7/17/67.)



 



 



SEC. 80.08.6.  TEMPORARY TRAFFIC CONTROLS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 183,135, Eff. 7/8/14.)



 



   (a)   Upon those streets or at those locations where the Department
determines that an unusual hazard exists to life or property, or that unusual
congestion or impedance to traffic movement exists or is likely to occur, the
Department shall install such traffic control devices as are required by its
findings to control such hazard, congestion or impedance to traffic
movement.  Such devices shall be effective for a period not to exceed thirty
(30) days and shall be marked "temporary".  Temporary traffic signs (No
Parking) shall be further marked "Commercial Vehicles with Use Permit Exempt"
when the Department determines the need for such control in conjunction with
a use permit for filming in accordance with Los Angeles Administrative Code
Chapter 13, Article 8, Division 22.



 



   (b)   The Department may install traffic control devices as are
necessary to provide the public with the most efficient use of the available
curb space upon those streets or at those locations wherever authorized signs
are in place giving notice that stopping or standing is prohibited, and where
"Tow Away" restrictions are not included on the "No Stopping" or "No Parking"
signs, or where the Council Office representing such street determines that a
temporary condition will exist where the need for on-street parking will not
detrimentally affect the public welfare, and where the Department determines
that unrestricted parking will not result in an unusual hazard to life or
property, or unusual congestion or impedance to traffic movement.  Traffic
control devices shall be effective for a period not to exceed thirty (30)
days and shall be marked "temporary".  These temporary "Parking Permitted"
signs shall specify the days and times when the "Parking Permitted" signs are
in effect, and these signs shall override any other "No Parking" or "No
Stopping" restrictions at the same location, except where "Tow Away"
restrictions are also posted, or where there are colored curb zones.



 



 



SEC. 80.08.7.  CHARGES FOR PROVIDING TRAFFIC CONTROL AND FOR INSTALLATION
AND RELOCATION OF PARKING AND TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 170,880, Eff. 3/1/96.)



 



   Upon notice of City authorization to temporarily close, in whole or in
part, a public street or to withdraw that public street from public use for a
period of time, or upon a determination by the Department of Transportation
that traffic control is required on a temporary basis due to anticipated
congestion caused by a particular event (such as a commercial or ceremonial
parade, street closure, athletic event, concert or festival) or upon a
request to the Department of Transportation with respect to matters involving
the use of streets, the Department may install, maintain, relocate, and/or
remove parking and/or traffic control devices or provide traffic control, in
a manner and at a level sufficient to protect the public safety, as
determined by the Department.  In providing such service the City shall be
reimbursed for the costs of provision as follows:



 



   (a)   In each such instance except as otherwise provided in
Subsections (e) and (f), the Department of Transportation shall charge and
collect the total costs of Departmental work, services, and materials
provided in the case of:



 



   1.   Installation, maintenance, and removal, plus replacement for
loss, or for repair of damage to any parking and/or traffic control devices,
including, but not limited to, temporary signs; and



 



   2.   Placing, temporarily relocating, or removing permanent parking
and/or traffic control devices.



 



   (b)   Prior to the Department proceeding pursuant to any such
request, the applicant requesting the installation, use, retirement from use,
maintaining, relocation, removal or replacement of a parking and/or traffic
control device or devices shall deposit with the City that sum estimated by
the Department to be sufficient  to reimburse the City for all City costs
with respect thereto.  The deposit may vary in amount depending upon the
scope of the costs and expenses reasonably anticipated as necessary to
provide the work, services, and materials to be used as a part of or for the
regulation of parking and/or traffic in the area involved.  The estimated
sum required to be deposited shall be based upon and not be inconsistent with
the actual costs of similar work done by, and materials used by, the
Department in the regular course of its duties.  The Department shall
estimate the amount of the deposit in conformity with a schedule adopted by
the General Manager on a semi-annual or less frequent basis which sets forth
and applies then current salary schedules and verifiable time and materials
costs of the City with respect to those types of Departmental activities. 
The schedule shall be kept on file by the Department and be available to any
applicant depositor at the time an application is made or as otherwise
requested.



 



   (c)   Money received as a deposit from an applicant shall be
deposited into the Department of Transportation Trust Fund and shall be
expended therefrom for the purpose of first reimbursing the Departmental
account for costs incurred by the Department in providing services and
materials referred to in Subsection (a) above for the applicant-depositor.



 



   (d)   As a condition to the Department proceedings above set forth,
any deposit accepted pursuant to this section shall be adjusted at the
completion of the project to conform to actual costs as follows:



 



   1.   In the event actual costs incurred by the City are less than
the deposit received by the City, the applicant shall be entitled to
reimbursement of the excess from the deposit; and



 



   2.   In the event the costs exceed the sum on deposit, all such
additional costs shall be paid by the applicant-depositor to the City upon
demand.



 



   (e)   (Amended by Ord. No. 180,881, Eff. 10/26/09.)  Department
charges shall not apply upon a determination by the General Manager,
Department of Transportation, that charges are less than $1,000 and that the
action involved is required as a result of an emergency situation, to
alleviate a dangerous condition, to provide police security, to alleviate
traffic congestion, or to effect a street closure initiated by the City. 
Such determination shall be in writing and affirmed by the responsible
official as follows:



 



   1.   Emergency - General Manager or Assistant General Manager,
Department of Transportation.



 



   2.   Dangerous Condition - District Transportation Engineer.



 



   3.   Traffic Congestion - District Transportation Engineer.



 



   4.   Police Security - Division Captain, Los Angeles Police
Department.



 



   (f)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to
non-commercial events whose primary purpose is the expression of public issue
speech.



 



 



SEC. 80.10.  SIGNS REQUIRED.



 



   No provision of this chapter for which signs or markings are required
shall be enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of
the alleged violation, an official sign or marking is not in place and
sufficiently legible and visible to be seen by an ordinary observant person.



 



 



SEC. 80.11.  RIGHT TURNS AT SIGNAL CONTROLLED INTERSECTIONS.



 



   The Department shall install signs prohibiting the making of a right
turn by the driver of a vehicle against a red signal at any intersection
where it determines that the making of such turns would interfere with the
safe or orderly movement of traffic. (Amended by Ord. No. 134,523, Eff.
7/17/67.)



 



 



SEC. 80.12.  DOUBLE LINES.



 



   Whenever the Department determines upon the basis of traffic
engineering principles and investigation that the volume of traffic or the
vertical curvature or other curvature of a roadway renders it hazardous to
drive on the left side of the roadway, or to drive in the center portion of
the roadway, the Department shall install distinctive roadway markings on
such roadway or portions thereof, where no driving or crossing over such
markings or to the left thereof is permitted. Such roadway markings shall be
of a type consistent with the requirements of the Vehicle Code. (Amended by
Ord. No. 134,523. Eff. 7/17/67.)



 



 



SEC. 80.13.  SPEED ZONING ON OTHER THAN STATE HIGHWAYS.



   (For Other Speed Zone Schedule, See Sec. 80.81)



 



   Pursuant to Section 22357 and 22358 of the Vehicle Code, the City
Council hereby determines, upon the basis of engineering and traffic
investigation, that a speed greater than 25 miles per hour would be
reasonable and safe upon the streets designated in Section 80.81 of this
chapter which are otherwise subject to a prima facie speed limit of 25 miles
per hour under the said Vehicle Code, and that the maximum limit of 65 miles
per hour is more than is reasonable and safe upon the streets designated in
Section 80.81, which are otherwise subject to a maximum speed limit of 65
miles per hour under the said Vehicle Code. The Department is hereby
authorized and directed to establish appropriate signs giving notice of the
prima facie speed limits established by Section 80.81. When signs are erected
giving notice thereof, the prima facie speed limits set forth in Section
80.81 shall be in effect. (Amended by Ord. No. 134,523, Eff. 7/17/67.)



 



 



SEC. 80.13.1.  SPEED ZONING ON STREETS ADJACENT TO A CHILDREN’S PLAYGROUND.



   (Added by Ord. No. 170,010, Eff. 10/1/94.)



 



   Pursuant to Section 22357.1 of the Vehicle Code of the State of
California, the City Council hereby authorizes the Department of
Transportation to set a prima facie speed limit of 25 mph on any street,
other than a State highway, adjacent to any children’s playground in a
public park, but only during particular hours or days when children are
expected to use the facilities.  Upon investigation and determination that a
prima facia speed limit of 25 mph is appropriate, the Department is hereby
authorized and directed to post playground, speed limit and hours of
operation signs adjacent to such playgrounds.  When said signs are erected
giving notice thereof, the prima facie speed limit of 25 mph shall be in
effect.



 



 



 



DIVISION “C”
TURNING MOVEMENTS



 



 



Section



80.14   Signs Prohibiting Left or Right Turns.



80.16   Turning Movements Required.



 



 



SEC. 80.14.  SIGNS PROHIBITING LEFT OR RIGHT TURNS.



 



   The Department is hereby authorized to determine and designate those
intersections and other places where the elimination or restriction of left
turns or of right turns is reasonably necessary in order to reduce traffic
congestion or to diminish the hazard of collision, and when such
determination has been made in any case, the Department is directed to
install at each intersection or place so designated, appropriate signs giving
notice that left turns or right turns, or both, are prohibited, in one or
more directions, and at such times, or at all times, as may be consistent
with the finding of necessity. (Amended by Ord. No. 134,523, Eff. 7/17/67.)



 



 



SEC. 80.16.  TURNING MOVEMENTS REQUIRED.



 



   The Department shall install markers, buttons or signs within or
adjacent to intersections indicating the course to be travelled by vehicles
turning at or approaching such intersections, whenever it determines upon the
basis of traffic engineering principles and study that such an installation
is necessary to control a hazard, reduce congestion or foster the orderly
movement of traffic. (Amended by Ord. No. 134,523, Eff. 7/17/67.)



 



 



 



DIVISION “D”
ONE WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS



 



 



Section



80.18   One Way Streets.



80.20.1   Divided Streets – Private Right-of-way.



 



 



SEC. 80.18.  ONE WAY STREETS.



 



   The Department is hereby directed to install signs designating certain
streets or portions thereof as one way streets, indicating the direction of
lawful traffic movement and prohibiting movement in the opposite direction,
at each intersection on such street whenever it determines upon the
principles of traffic engineering and by study in each case that the
restriction of the movement of traffic to a single direction at all times, or
at certain times only, would reduce congestion, control hazards, or improve
the movement of traffic. (Amended by Ord. No. 134,523, Eff. 7/17/67.)



 



 



SEC. 80.20.1.  DIVIDED STREETS – PRIVATE RIGHT-OF-WAY.



 



   Whenever any private right-of-way effectively divides a street or way,
not a State Highway, into two separate roadways, neither such roadway shall
be a one-way street unless expressly so designated pursuant to this chapter,
and traffic shall move in either direction along each such road way.



 



 



 



DIVISION “E”
SPECIAL STOPS REQUIRED



 



 



Section



80.21   Department to Erect Stop Signs.



80.21.1   Authority to Erect “Yield” Signs.



 



 



SEC. 80.21.  DEPARTMENT TO ERECT STOP SIGNS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 134,523, Eff. 7/17/67.)



 



   (a)   The Department is hereby authorized to determine those
streets, intersections, or highway railroad grade crossings at which there is
a special hazard to life or property by reason of the volume of traffic upon
such streets or at such intersections, or over such highway railroad grade
crossings, or because of the lack of visibility to the drivers of vehicles
approaching such streets, intersections or highway railroad grade crossings,
or because of the number of reported accidents or the apparent probability
thereof, or by reason of physical conditions which render any such streets,
intersections or highway railroad grade crossings exceptionally dangerous or
hazardous to life or property, and where the factors creating the special
hazard are such that, according to the principles and experience of traffic
engineering, the installation of stop signs is reasonably calculated to
reduce the expectancy of accidents, and that the use of warning signs would
be inadequate.



 



   (b)   When such determination has been made, the Department shall
designate any such street as a through street between specified limits, or
designate any such intersection as a stop intersection, or designate any such
highway railroad grade crossing as a Stop Railroad Grade Crossing, subject to
the approval of the Public Utilities Commission of the State pursuant to the
provisions of Section 21110 of the Vehicle Code, and the Department shall
post such stop signs as are necessary to give effect to such designation.
Stop signs at any intersection may be so posted so as to stop either or any
of the streams of traffic entering such intersection as the needs of the
particular location may require.



 



 



SEC. 80.21.1.  AUTHORITY TO ERECT “YIELD” SIGNS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 134,523, Eff. 7/17/67.)



 



   (a)   The Department is hereby authorized to determine those
approaches to intersections of streets and highways which are not through
streets, at which there is a special hazard to life or property by reason of
the volume of traffic at such intersections, or because of the lack of
visibility to the drivers of vehicles approaching such intersection, or
because of the number of reported accidents or the apparent probability
thereof, or by reason of physical conditions which render such intersections
exceptionally dangerous or hazardous to life or property, and where the
factors creating the special hazard are such that, according to the
principles and experience of traffic engineering, the installation of
“Yield” signs is reasonably calculated to reduce the expectancy of
accidents, and that the use of warning signs would be inadequate.



 



   (b)   When such determination has been made, the Department is
directed to designate any such approaches as “yield” approaches and post
such “Yield” signs as are necessary to give effect to such designation



 



 



 



DIVISION “F”
MISCELLANEOUS DRIVING RULES



 



 



Section



80.25   Following or Parking Near Fire Apparatus.



80.26   Driving Through Funeral Processions.



80.27   Riding on Bicycles.



80.28   Clinging to Moving Vehicles.



80.29   Vehicles Shall Not Be Driven on the Sidewalk.



80.30   New Pavement.



80.30.1   Curb Parking – Right of Way.



80.30.2   Horse Drawn Vehicles.



80.31   Vehicles on Private Property.



 



 



SEC. 80.25.  FOLLOWING OR PARKING NEAR FIRE APPARATUS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 168,782, Eff. 7/12/93.)



 



   (a)   No driver of a vehicle shall follow any fire apparatus
answering a fire alarm, or another vehicle answering an emergency call,
closer than one block.



 



   (b)   No person shall park any vehicle within the block where any
fire apparatus or other emergency vehicle has stopped in response to an
emergency call.



 



 



SEC. 80.26.  DRIVING THROUGH FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.



 



   No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the vehicles comprising a
funeral procession while they are in motion and when the vehicles in such
procession are conspicuously so designated (Amended by Ord. No. 134,523, Eff.
7/17/67.)



 



 



SEC. 80.27.  RIDING ON BICYCLES.



 



   A person operating a bicycle shall not ride other than upon the
permanent and regular seat attached thereto, nor carry any other person upon
such bicycle other than upon a firmly attached seat to the rear of the
operator, nor shall any person ride upon a bicycle other than as above
authorized. (Amended by Ord. No. 122,716, Eff. 10/5/62.)



 



 



SEC. 80.28.  CLINGING TO MOVING VEHICLES.



 



   Any person riding upon any bicycle, motorcycle, coaster, roller skates
or any toy vehicle, shall not attach the same or himself to any moving
vehicle upon any roadway. (Amended by Ord. No. 134,523, Eff. 7/17/67.)



 



 



SEC. 80.29.  VEHICLES SHALL NOT BE DRIVEN ON THE SIDEWALK.



 



   The driver of a vehicle shall not drive within any sidewalk area or any
parkway except at a permanent or temporary driveway.



 



 



SEC. 80.30.  NEW PAVEMENT.



 



   No person shall ride or drive any animal or any vehicle over or across
any newly made pavement or any freshly painted marking placed pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter in any street when a barrier or sign is in place
warning persons not to drive over or across such pavement or marking, or
where a sign is in place stating that the street is closed.



 



 



SEC. 80.30.1.  CURB PARKING – RIGHT OF WAY.



 



   (a)   Definition – Limited Curb Parking Space. For the purpose of
this section, a “limited curb parking space” shall mean an area open for
lawful parking along side of, and adjacent to, a curb, which area is not of
sufficient length to permit two or more vehicles to freely move for parking
therein at the same time.



 



   (b)   Parking at Curb – Right of Way. Any person seeking to park
his vehicle in a limited curb parking space, whose vehicle arrives at said
parking space prior to any other vehicle, and who proceeds beyond said space
a distance not to exceed ten feet for the purpose of backing his vehicle
therein, shall have the right of way over any person driving or attempting to
drive any other vehicle directly into such limited curb parking space or who
in any manner obstructs such limited curb parking space and the driver of
such other vehicle shall yield the right of way to the driver who first
arrived at said parking space.



 



 



SEC. 80.30.2.  HORSE DRAWN VEHICLES.



 



   No person shall drive any animal drawn vehicle into or within the
Central Traffic District between the hours of 4:30 o’clock P.M. and 6:00
o’clock P.M. of any day. (Amended by Ord. No. 122,716, Eff. 10/5/62.)



 



 



SEC. 80.31.  VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 139,223, Eff. 11/9/69.)



 



   Upon private property of another which is held open to the public for
any vehicular use and which is not subject to the provisions of the Vehicle
Code.



 



   (a)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle at a speed greater
than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the surface and
conditions of the area of such operation, and the welfare and safety of
persons or property thereon.



 



   (b)   No person shall engage in or aid or abet in any motor vehicle
speed contest or motor vehicle exhibition of speed thereon, without prior
written authorization therefor from the owner, lessee or other person in
legal possession.



 



 



 



DIVISION “G”
TERMINAL ACCESS FOR INTERSTATE TRUCKS



 




(Amended by Ord. No. 159,624, Eff. 1/22/85.)




 



 



Section



80.33   Definitions.



80.33.1   Purpose.



80.33.2   Applications.



80.33.3   Fees and Costs.



80.33.4   Modifications.



80.33.5   Revocation of Route.



80.33.6   Appeal Process.



 



 



SEC. 80.33.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   The following words and phrases shall have the meanings set forth, and
if any word or phrase used in this article is not defined in this section, it
shall have the meanings set forth in the California Vehicle Code; provided
that if any such word or phrase is not defined in the Vehicle Code, it shall
have the meaning attributed to it in ordinary usage.



 



   (a)   “Terminal” means any facility at which freight is
consolidated to be shipped or where full-load consignments may be off-loaded,
or at which the vehicle combinations are regularly maintained, stored, or
manufactured.



 



   (b)   “Interstate truck” means a combination of vehicles
consisting of a truck tractor and semitrailer, or of a truck tractor,
semitrailer, and trailer, with unlimited length as regulated by Vehicle Code,
Sec. 35401.5.



 



   (c)   “Caltrans” means the State of California Department of
Transportation or its successor agency.



 



 



SEC. 80.33.1.  PURPOSE.



 



   The purpose of this article is to establish procedures for terminal
designation and truck route designation to terminals for interstate trucks
operating on a federally designated highway system and to promote the general
health, safety and welfare of the public.



 



 



SEC. 80.33.2.  APPLICATIONS.



 



   (a)   The owners or operators of a terminal requiring terminal
access for interstate trucks from the federally designated highway system,
which interstate trucks will utilize any City streets in traveling to, or
from, such terminal, shall submit an application, on a form as provided by
the City, and make payment of the fees as required by Section 80.33.3 of this
Code. The application shall be filed with the Department. The application
shall include the name and address of the applicant, the location of the
terminal, the preferred route (and alternate routes if appropriate), evidence
that the terminal, if located within the City, meets established criteria and
that said terminal’s parking and entries are adequate and such other
information as the Department may require.



 



   (b)   Upon receipt of the application, the Department will cause an
investigation to be made to ascertain whether or not the proposed terminal
meets the requirements for an interstate truck terminal. Upon its approval of
that designation, the Department will then determine the capability of the
route requested and alternate routes, whether requested or not. Determination
of route capability will include, without limitation, a review of adequate
turning radius and lane widths of ramps, intersections, streets and highways
and general traffic conditions such as sight distance, speed and traffic
volumes. No access off a federally designated highway system will be approved
without the approval of Caltrans.



 



   (c)   Should the requested route pass through the City to a terminal
located in another jurisdiction, the applicant, in addition to complying with
Subsection (a) hereof, shall also comply with that jurisdiction’s
application process.  Coordination of the approval of the route through the
City will be the responsibility of the entity which controls the terminal’s
land use.  Costs shall be as provided in Section 80.33.3 of this Code.



 



   (d)   No interstate truck may leave a designated terminal access
route in the City of Los Angeles except at an entrance to an authorized
terminal.



 



 



SEC. 80.33.3.  FEES AND COSTS.



 



   (a)   The applicant shall pay to the Department a non-refundable
application fee of $250.00 per proposed terminal and/or its proposed access
route(s).



 



   (b)   Upon the approval of the terminal designation and route by the
City and by Caltrans the applicant shall pay to the Department for the
purchase and installation of terminal trailblazer signs and terminal
identification signs, where required, at the rate of $75.00 per sign. 
Trailblazer signs will be required at every decision point in the City on
route to the terminal.  Terminal identification signs will be required at
the entrance to the terminal.  No terminal or route may be used until such
signs, as may be required, are in place.  Costs for trailblazer signs may be
proportioned in accordance with the procedures in Section 80.33.4.



 



   (c)   Upon approval of a terminal and/or its access route the
terminal owner or its successor in interest will pay to the City an annual
fee of $50.00 for each such terminal and/or access route, due on January
first of each year.



 



 



SEC. 80.33.4.  MODIFICATIONS.



 



   (a)   If all feasible routes to a requested terminal are found
unsatisfactory by the Department the applicant shall be notified of the
modifications necessary to eliminate a traffic hazard, as referred to in Sec.
80.33.5 herein or to protect existing facilities.  The applicant may request
the necessary modifications to make the route acceptable.  All costs of
engineering, construction and inspection will be the responsibility of the
applicant.  Except when the modification of deficiencies is within the
jurisdiction of Caltrans, the actual construction will be done at no cost to
the City by a contractor acceptable to it.



 



   (b)   Modifications shall be limited to the reconstruction of curbed
islands, curb returns and appurtenant structures; relocation of above-ground
fixtures such as traffic signs, traffic signal standards, traffic signal
controllers, street light standards and fire hydrants within the curb return
area; and intersection approach markings together with traffic signal
detection devices.  Required modifications shall not include reconstruction
of any pavement or street surface not related to the above.



 



   (c)   When the work is done by the applicant, the applicant may file
with the Department on a form satisfactory to the Department, a statement
detailing the actual costs of the modification.  It shall be the
applicant’s responsibility to obtain all the necessary permits.



 



   (d)   If at any time within five (5) years from the date of
completion of the modification by the applicant, should any other applicant
seek terminal approval which would use the route upon which such modification
was accomplished, any such applicant’s fee may include that applicant’s
proportionate share of the modification, as determined by the Department,
which fee shall be disbursed by the Department to the applicant who paid for
the modification as well as to any applicant who contributed to the cost of
the modification under this subsection. Nothing herein shall require the
payment of a proportionate fee if the applicant doing the work failed to file
the report with the Department required by Subsection (b) above.



 



 



SEC. 80.33.5.  REVOCATION OF ROUTE.



 



   The Department may revoke any approved terminal, or route, if the
terminal, or route, becomes a traffic hazard, which cannot be modified to the
satisfaction of the Department, pursuant to Sec. 80.33.4, for vehicular
traffic or if there is a failure to pay the fee provided for in Section
80.33.3 of this Code. A traffic hazard includes the inability of interstate
trucks to negotiate the route or said vehicles causing unsafe traffic
conditions for other vehicular traffic or pedestrians. If the Department
should revoke any approved terminal, or route, it may, in its discretion,
designate an alternate route.



 



 



SEC. 80.33.6.  APPEAL PROCESS.



 



   (a)   If the Department denies terminal designation, route
feasibility or revokes a previously approved terminal or route, the
applicant/terminal owner, within fifteen (15) working days following the date
of receipt of the decision of the Department, may appeal said decision to the
Board in writing. An appeal shall be made on a form prescribed by the
Department and shall be filed with the Board. The appeal shall state
specifically wherein there was an error or abuse of discretion by the
Department or wherein its decision is not supported by the evidence in the
record. Within fifteen (15) working days of the filing of an appeal, the
Department shall transmit to the Secretary of the Board the terminal
application, the sketches of the proposed or revoked route and all other data
filed therewith, the report and decision of the Department on the application.



 



   (b)   The Board shall make copies of the data provided by the
Department available to the applicant and to the appellant (if the applicant
is not the appellant) for inspection and may give notice to any other
interested party who requested notice of the time when the appeal will be
considered by the Board.



 



   (c)   If Caltrans, and not the Department, denies, or revokes,
terminal access from federally designated highways, no appeal may be made to
the Board, but must be made to Caltrans as may be permitted by Caltrans.



 



 



 



DIVISION “H”
RESTRICTED USE OF CERTAIN STREETS



 



 



Section



80.35   School Streets Closed to Vehicles.



80.36   Streets Closed to Vehicles.



80.36.1   Restricted Use of Certain Streets.



80.36.3   Noise Restrictions in Use of Streets.



80.36.4   Flood Control Channels.



80.36.5   Restricted Use of Certain State Highways.



80.36.7   Contra-flow Lanes.



80.36.8   Preferential Use of Traffic Lanes.



80.36.9   Assemblages and Processions of Vehicles.



80.36.10   Cruising Prohibited.



 



 



SEC. 80.35.  SCHOOL STREETS CLOSED TO VEHICLES.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 134,523, Eff. 7/17/67.)



 



   (a)   Whenever the Department finds and determines that the travel
of vehicles upon any street or portion thereof which crosses or divides any
school ground or grounds creates unusual hazards and is not essential to 
maintain free circulation of traffic or access to property, the Department
shall, subject to the approval of the Council by resolution, close such
street to vehicular traffic during those days and hours when that school is
open to normal use pursuant to Section 21102 of the Vehicle Code. Upon
receiving such approval, the Department shall cause signs and barriers to be
placed closing such streets during such days and hours. When such signs and
barriers are in place upon such street or portion thereof, no person shall
operate any vehicle thereon.



 



   (b)   Whenever the Department shall find and determine that it would
be necessary and desirable and in the interests of the automobile Driver
Training Program in secondary schools, and vehicular traffic would not be
unduly inconvenienced or impeded, said Department shall place or cause to be
placed appropriate signs or barricades, or both, thereby specifying that a
particular street or streets is closed to through traffic during regular
school hours, pursuant to the provisions of Section 21101(e) of the Vehicle
Code, for the specific purpose of conducting special Driver Training Program.



 



 



SEC. 80.36.  STREETS CLOSED TO VEHICLES.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 122,716, Eff. 10/5/62.)



 



   (a)   Whenever the Department finds and determines that the travel
of vehicles upon any street, public way or portion thereof creates unusual
hazards or congestion and that such street is not essential to maintain free
circulation of traffic or access to property, the Department shall, subject
to the approval of the Council by resolution, close such street to vehicular
traffic. Upon receiving, such approval, the Department shall place signs,
stanchions, barriers, or other devices thereon, indicating that such street,
public way or portion thereof is closed to vehicular traffic and preventing
the entry of such traffic as far as practical. (Amended by Ord. No. 134,523,
Eff. 7/17/67.)



 



   (b)   When such signs, barriers or stanchions are in place upon such
street or portion thereof, no person shall operate any vehicle thereon.
(Amended by Ord. No. 122,716, Eff. 10/5/62.)



 



 



SEC. 80.36.1.  RESTRICTED USE OF CERTAIN STREETS.



 



   (a)   It shall be unlawful, when authorized signs are in place
giving notice thereof, to drive, propel, or cause to be driven or propelled,
any vehicle exceeding a maximum gross weight of 6,000 pounds on any of the
streets or portions of streets set forth in Subsection (d) of this section.



 



   (b)   When it has been determined by the Department that continued
use of any street, or portion thereof, by vehicles over 6,000 pounds gross
weight would cause traffic congestion, create a hazard to life or property,
or detrimentally affect public welfare, and when alternate routes are
available, the Department is hereby authorized to erect upon such street or
portions thereof, signs prohibiting such vehicles, provided, however, that
such authority shall not extend to major or secondary highways, as defined by
Section 18.01 of this Code, other than those major or secondary highways, or
portions thereof, specified in Subsection (d) of this section provided,
however, that no vehicle used for round-trip sight-seeing tour service
vehicle, as defined by the Public Utilities Commission, namely round-trip
travel in the same vehicle with guide service for an informational purpose,
in excess of 6,000 pounds gross weight, shall use any street other than a
major or secondary highway, as defined by Section 18.01 of this Code, despite
any lack of such determination by the Department, and any erection of signs,
as hereinabove described, so long as appropriate notice of the restriction is
given in compliance with Vehicle Code Section 35701(b). (Amended by Ord. No.
158,564, Eff. 1/22/84, Oper. 2/28/84.)



 



   (c)   Exceptions.  The provisions of this section shall not apply
to any of the following:



 



   1.   Emergency vehicles.



 



   2.   Vehicles owned by or under contract to a public utility while
necessarily in use in the construction, installation or repair of such public
utility. (Amended by Ord. No. 111,402, Eff. 7/11/58.)



 



   3.   Vehicles subject to the provisions of Section 1031 – 1036 of
the Public Utilities Code of the State of California which vehicle has
received a Certificate from the Public Utilities Commission of the State
declaring that the public necessity and convenience require the operation of
such vehicle provided that the certificate specifically authorizes that
vehicle to be operated in the City of Los Angeles for the purpose authorized
in said certificate. This exemption shall not apply to vehicles operated as a
round-trip sight-seeing tour service as defined by the Public Utilities
Commission. This exemption shall apply only if a copy of the Certificate and
a description of the routes to be used in the City are filed with the
Department at least two (2) days prior to the operation of any vehicle
claimed to be exempt is to be operated in the City. The Department may
require any exempt operator to display on the exempt vehicle a placard or
device issued by him which identifies the vehicle as exempt and such placard
or device shall be displayed as required by the Department at all times while
the vehicle is traveling in the City. (Amended by Ord. No. 158,564, Eff.
1/22/84, Oper. 2/28/84.)



 



   4.   Commercial vehicles coming from an unrestricted street having
ingress or egress by direct route to and from such restricted streets when
necessary for the purpose of making pickups or deliveries of goods, wares and
merchandise from or to any building or structure located on such restricted
streets, or for the purpose of delivering materials to be used in the actual
and bona fide repair, alteration, remodeling or construction of any building
or structure upon such restricted street for which a building permit has
previously been obtained; and



 



   5.   Passenger vehicles operated, engaged, and used for the sole and
exclusive purpose of picking up or discharging a passenger or passengers at
any origin or destination of such passenger or passengers on any street
designated by the Department pursuant to Subdivision (b) above or (d) below.
This exemption shall not apply to vehicles operated as a round-trip
sight-seeing tour service as defined by the Public Utilities Commission.
(Amended by Ord. No. 158,564, Eff. 1/22/84, Oper. 2/28/84.)



 



   6.   Commercial vehicles owned by or under contract to electronic
media companies licensed by the Federal Communication Commission (FCC) that
contain equipment for the purpose of transmitting audio and video images,
including satellite dishes and mast mounted microwave transmitters, are
exempt from the 6,000 pound maximum gross weight prohibition on the streets
listed in Subsection (d) of this section, provided that such vehicles do not
exceed a maximum gross weight of 10,000 pounds and are used in connection
with the gathering or reporting of news.  This exemption only applies to the
streets listed in Subsection (d) and no other City streets where an
authorized sign is in place prohibiting any vehicle exceeding a maximum gross
weight of 6,000 pounds to drive, propel or cause to be driven or propelled on
the street. (Added by Ord. No. 182,984, Eff. 5/28/14.)



 



   (d)   The Department is hereby authorized to erect signs prohibiting
vehicles over 6.000 pounds gross weight upon those major or secondary
highways or portions thereof, specified in this subsection.



 




A





(Amended by Ord. No. 167,097, Eff. 8/17/91.)




 



   Airport Boulevard between La Tijera Boulevard and 74th Street



   Alla Road between Culver Boulevard and Maxella Avenue.



   Anaheim Street from Eubank Avenue to Figueroa Street.



   Arbor Vitae Street between Airport Boulevard and Lilienthal Avenue.



   Avalon Boulevard from ‘B’ Street to the City of Carson boundary.



   Avenue 60 between Monterey Road and the City limits easterly of Oak
Hill Avenue.



   Avenue of the Stars between Santa Monica Boulevard and Pico Boulevard.



 




B





(Amended by Ord. No. 161,201, Eff. 6/14/86.)




 



   Balboa Boulevard between Balboa Boulevard (Connector road to San
Fernando Road) and Rinaldi Street.



   Beverly Glen Boulevard between Mulholland Drive and Ventura Boulevard.



   Beverly Glen Boulevard between Pico Boulevard and Sunset Boulevard.



   Burbank Boulevard from Vineland Avenue to Lankershim Boulevard.



 




C





(Amended by Ord. No. 175,131, Eff. 5/4/03.)




 



   Center Street from Commercial Street to Ramirez Street.



   Chatsworth Street between De Soto Avenue and Topanga Canyon Boulevard.



   Coldwater Canyon Avenue between Ventura Boulevard and Mulholland Drive.



   Colfax Avenue from Victory Boulevard to Ventura Boulevard.



   Collis Avenue between Huntington Drive and the City limits northerly of
Coleman Avenue.



   Culver Boulevard from Vista Del Mar to the City line near Nicholson
Street.



 




D





(Added by Ord. No. 153,629, Eff. 5/19/80.)




 



   Division Street between El Paso Drive and San Fernando Road.



 




E




 



   Eighth Avenue between Hyde Park Boulevard and Slauson Avenue.



   Eighth Avenue between 67th Street and 76th Street.



   Encinitas Avenue between Bledsoe Street and Roxford Street.



 




G





(Added by Ord. No. 165,681, Eff. 5/12/90.)




 



   Gage Avenue between Figueroa Street and Normandie Avenue.



 




H




 



   Hauser Boulevard between Venice Boulevard and Jefferson Boulevard.



   Highland Avenue between Melrose Avenue and La Brea Avenue.



 




I




 



   Idaho Avenue between Bundy Drive and Centinela Avenue.



   Inglewood Boulevard between Navy Street and National Boulevard.



 




L





(Added by Ord. No. 171,729, Eff. 10/18/97.)




 



   La Tuna Canyon Road between the Foothill Freeway (Route 210) eastbound
off-ramp and Sunland Boulevard.



 




M





(Added by Ord. No. 167,603, Eff. 3/27/92.)




 



   Manchester Avenue between Lincoln Boulevard and Pershing Drive.



   Manning Avenue between Santa Monica Boulevard and Wilshire Boulevard.



   Manning Avenue between the Santa Monica Freeway on-ramp south of
Manning Court and National Boulevard.



   Moorpark Street between Vineland Avenue and Tyrone Avenue.



 




N




 



   National Boulevard between Overland Avenue and Westwood Boulevard.



   Ninth Avenue between Exposition Boulevard and Mont Clair Street.



   Ninety-sixth Street between Airport Avenue and Sepulveda Boulevard.



 




O





(Amended by Ord. No. 183,348, Eff. 2/7/15.)




 



   One Hundred Thirty-fifth Street between Vermont Avenue and Estrella
Avenue.



   Oro Vista Avenue between Big Tujunga Canyon Road and Foothill Boulevard.



   Overland Avenue between Pico Boulevard and Santa Monica Boulevard.



 




P





(Added by Ord. No. 167,603, Eff. 3/27/92.)




 



   Pershing Drive between Manchester Avenue and a point 500 feet southerly
of Waterview Street.



   Paxton Street between Sharp Avenue and Vena Avenue.



   Pershing Drive between Manchester Avenue and a point 500 feet southerly
of Waterview Street.



   Pershing Drive from Cabora Drive to Manchester Avenue.



 




S





(Amended by Ord. No. 173,406, Eff. 8/25/00.)




 



   Sixth Street between Vermont Avenue and Fairfax Avenue.



   Seventh Street between Boyle Avenue and Soto Street.



   San Fernando Mission Boulevard between Balboa Boulevard and Reseda
Boulevard.



   South Breed Street between Whittier Boulevard and Seventh Street.



   Sunset Boulevard between the city limits of Beverly Hills and Pacific
Coast Highway.



 




T




 



   Tyrone Avenue between Moorpark Street and Ventura Boulevard.



 




V





(Amended by Ord. No. 160,461, Eff. 11/28/85.)




 



   Veteran Avenue between Santa Monica Boulevard and Wilshire Boulevard



   Vineland Avenue from Camarillo Street to Burbank Boulevard.



   Vista Del Mar from Culver Boulevard to Imperial Highway.



 




W





(Amended by Ord. No. 171,651, 8/7/97.)




 



   West Channel Road between Pacific Coast Highway and Lower Mesa Road.



   Wilmington Boulevard from ‘C’ Street to the City of Carson boundary.



   Wilshire Boulevard between Veteran Avenue and the City limits of the
City of Beverly Hills.



 




Y





(Added by Ord. No. 153,354, Eff. 3/2/80.)




 



   Yarnell Street between Bradley Avenue and Foothill Boulevard.



 




Z





(Added by Ord. No. 167,430, Eff. 1/6/92.)




 



   Zelzah Avenue between Rinaldi and Chatsworth Streets.



 



   (e)   It is unlawful and constitutes an infraction for any person to
violate this section.  Every person convicted of an infraction for a
violation of this section shall be punishable as follows:  (Added by Ord.
No. 177,324, Eff. 3/18/06.)



 



   1.   By a fine not exceeding $100;



 



   2.   For a second infraction occurring within one year of a prior
infraction, which resulted in a conviction, a fine not exceeding $200;



 



   3.   For a third or any subsequent infraction occurring within one
year of two or more prior infractions, which resulted in convictions, a fine
not exceeding $250.



 



   (f)   Any violation of this section that would otherwise be an
infraction shall be a misdemeanor if a defendant has been convicted of three
or more violations of the California Vehicle Code (except for violations by
pedestrians), or this section, or both, within the 12-month period
immediately preceding the commission of the offense and those prior
convictions are admitted by the defendant or alleged in the accusatory
pleadings.  For this purpose, a bail forfeiture shall be deemed to be a
conviction of the offense charged.  (Added by Ord. No. 177,324, Eff.
3/18/06.)



 



   (g)   Every person convicted of a misdemeanor for a violation of
this section shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding $1,000 or by
imprisonment in the County jail for a period not exceeding six months, or by
both a fine and imprisonment.  (Added by Ord. No. 177,324, Eff. 3/18/06.)



 



 



SEC. 80.36.2.  (Repealed by Ord. No. 168,187, Eff. 9/28/92.)



 



 



SEC. 80.36.3.  NOISE RESTRICTIONS IN USE OF STREETS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 158,587, Eff. 1/29/84.)



 



   No person shall cause the engine of a commercial vehicle with at least
six tires, and a gross weight of more than 10,000 pounds empty, to operate to
the disturbance of persons occupying sleeping quarters in any dwelling hotel
or apartment or other place of residence while parked or standing on a public
street earlier than 6:30 A.M.



 



   EXCEPTIONS:



 



   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any of the following:



 



   1.   Vehicles engaged in the collection of rubbish regulated under
LAMC Section 113.01.



 



   2.   Emergency vehicles.



 



   3.   Vehicles owned or under contract to a public utility while
necessarily in use in the construction, installation or repair of such public
utility.



 



   4.   Vehicles subject to the provisions of Section 1031 – 1036 of
the Public Utilities Act.



 



   5.   Vehicles used for the carriage of passengers.



 



 



SEC. 80.36.4.  FLOOD CONTROL CHANNELS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 122,716, Eff. 10/5/62; Renumbered Sec. 80.36.4, Ord.
No. 158,587, Eff. 1/29/84.)



 



   No person shall drive, or operate, any vehicle into or upon any flood
control channel within this City which is owned, operated or under the
control of either the Los Angeles County Flood Control District or the Corps
of Engineers, United States Army.



 



   This section shall not apply to vehicles owned or in the service of the
United States Corps of Engineers, the Los Angeles County Flood Control
District, or the City of Los Angeles, nor to any vehicles operated under
specific written authorization of the United States Corps of Engineers, the
Los Angeles Flood Control District, or the City of Los Angeles.



 



   This section shall not apply to the driving or operating of a motor
vehicle on the travelled portion of any public highway.



 



 



SEC. 80.36.5.  RESTRICTED USE OF CERTAIN STATE HIGHWAYS.



 



   Except as provided under Exceptions (a) and (b) of this section, it
shall be unlawful, when authorized signs are in place giving notice thereof,
to drive or propel any commercial vehicle which is designed, used or
maintained primarily for the transportation of property for hire,
compensation or profit, drawing a trailer or semitrailer, or to cause or
allow any such commercial vehicle to be driven or propelled on the following
named streets or portions thereof;



 



   (1)   Olympic Boulevard between Figueroa Street and the easterly
city limits of the City of Beverly Hills.



 



   (2)   Olympic Boulevard between the westerly City limits of the City
of Beverly Hills and Sepulveda Boulevard.



 



   EXCEPTIONS:



 



   (a)  This section shall not prohibit such commercial vehicles from
using said described streets or portions thereof, where necessary for the
picking up or the delivery of goods, wares, merchandise or material.



 



   (b)  This section shall not apply to any vehicle which is subject to
the provisions of Section 50 1/4 of the Public Utilities Act of California,
nor to any taxicab or any other passenger vehicle operated for hire.



 



 



SEC. 80.36.7.  CONTRA-FLOW LANES.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 151,833, Eff. 2/10/79, Oper. 2/25/79.)



 



   (a)   (Amended by Ord. No. 176,904, Eff. 9/21/05.)  Except as to
buses specifically authorized for this use by the Department, it shall be
unlawful, when authorized signs and markings are in place, giving notice
thereof, to drive, propel, stop or park any vehicle in or on the east curb
lane of Spring Street between 1st Street and Cesar E. Chavez Avenue or on the
east curb lanes of Flower Street between lower 4th Street and 3rd Street in
the City of Los Angeles.



 



   The Department is hereby authorized to install such signs, signals or
other markings as are necessary to establish a contra-flow northbound lane
in, on or along the east curb of Spring Street between 1st Street and Cesar
E. Chavez Avenue and contra-flow northbound lanes along the east curb of
Flower Street between lower 4th Street and 3rd Street and to restrict their
use to that of the buses specifically authorized for this use by the
Department.



 



   (b)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any vehicle
of the Police or Fire Department, any public ambulance, or any public utility
vehicle, or any private ambulance, which public utility vehicle or private
ambulance has qualified as an authorized emergency vehicle, when any vehicle
mentioned in this paragraph is operated in the manner specified in the
Vehicle Code in response to an emergency call.



 



   (c)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any vehicle
exiting the driveway on the east side of Spring Street, just south of Aliso
Street, provided any such vehicle, upon exiting such driveway does not
proceed northbound on Spring Street north of Aliso Street. The purpose of
this subsection is to allow vehicles exiting such driveway to be allowed to
make a right turn into the contra-flow lane for the purpose of making a right
turn eastbound on Aliso Street. (Added by Ord. No. 159,660, Eff. 2/19/85.)



 



   (d)   The provisions of this article shall not prohibit vehicles
from passing through restricted lane at any angle for the purpose of going to
or from private property. (Former Subsec. (c) Relettered (d) by Ord. No.
159,660, Eff. 2/19/85.)



 



 



SEC. 80.36.8.  PREFERENTIAL USE OF TRAFFIC LANES.



   (Title Amended by Ord, No. 151,833, Eff. 2/10/79, Oper. 2/25/79.)



 



   (a)   The Department of Transportation is authorized, subject to
approval by resolution of the City Council to designate the preferential use
of traffic lanes in streets and highways under the jurisdiction of the
Department of Transportation within the City of Los Angeles and to place and
maintain, or cause to be placed and maintained, such appropriate signs,
signals, barriers, stanchions or other traffic control devices as may be
authorized under the State Vehicle Code or as may be necessary properly to
indicate and to carry out the provisions of this section or to warn or guide
traffic.  (Amended by Ord. No. 151,833, Eff. 2/10/79, Oper. 2/25/79.)



 



   Such preferential use of street lanes shall be based upon competent
traffic engineering and surveys and estimates developed or supported by
continuing comprehensive transportation planning processes of the city. Such
lanes shall be subject to such geometric design standards, scheduling
reservations, restrictions, and conditions as the department deems necessary
or desirable for increasing the effectiveness of the street system for the
safe and efficient movement of people and goods, for the adequate protection
for the safety of operation of all motor vehicle traffic, and to protect the
adequacy of the facilities to meet traffic needs.



 



   (b)   It is the intent of the Council in enacting this section to
stimulate and encourage the development of ways and means of relieving
traffic congestion on the streets of Los Angeles and to encourage the use of
buses, jitneys, taxicabs, car pools and other high occupancy vehicles. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 147,067, Eff. 5/16/75.)



 



   (c)   (Amended by Ord. No. 147,067, Eff. 5/16/75.)  For the purpose
of this section, the following definitions shall apply:



 



   “Taxicab” shall be defined as defined in the Los Angeles Municipal
Code Section 71.00.



 



   “Jitney” shall be defined as any motor vehicle owned, controlled,
operated or managed for public use in the transportation of persons, for
compensation, over any public street in the City of Los Angeles, and into
which passengers are received and from which passengers are discharged along
a fixed route traversed by such vehicle.



 



   “Carpool” shall mean a vehicle containing two or more persons.



 



   “Preferential use of traffic lanes” shall mean the setting aside of
one traffic lane for either the priority or exclusive use of buses, jitneys,
taxicabs and car pools.



 



   (d)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any vehicle
of the Police or Fire Department, any public ambulance, or any public utility
vehicle, or any private ambulance, which public utility vehicle or private
ambulance has qualified as an authorized emergency vehicle, when any vehicle
mentioned in this paragraph is operated in the manner specified in the
Vehicle Code in response to an emergency call.



 



   Nor shall such apply to any vehicle of the Transportation Department
while used by a Traffic Officer in the performance of such person’s
official duties. (Added by Ord. No. 151,833, Eff. 2/10/79, Oper. 2/25/79.)



 



   (e)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to contra flow
traffic lanes.



 



 



SEC. 80.36.9.  ASSEMBLAGES AND PROCESSIONS OF VEHICLES.



   (Added by Ord. No. 157,010, Eff. 8/17/82.)



 



   A.   Whenever the City Council determines by order or resolution
that it is necessary to regulate or prohibit the assemblage or procession of
vehicles on a highway, street, or public way, or any portion thereof in order
to prevent traffic congestion, injury to persons or property or to otherwise
preserve the public peace, health or safety, it may in that action also
authorize and direct the Department and/or the Police Department to close any
highway, street, or public way, or any portion thereof for the time and
distance necessary for that purpose; provided, however, that unless directed
otherwise by the City Council, the highway, street, public way or portion
thereof closed by such order or resolution, the Department and/or the Police
Department, may cause it to remain available for use by public transportation
vehicles, emergency vehicles, and/or other vehicles which the Department
and/or the Police Department determine are not a part of, or intended to be a
part of, such assemblage or procession. Where a closure is directed pursuant
to this section, the Department and/or the Police Department shall cause
signs, stanchions, barriers, vehicles, or other device to be placed at a
location or locations which will give notice to the public indicating that
such highway, street or public way or portion thereof is closed to vehicular
traffic.



 



   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a vehicle upon a
highway, street, or public way or portion thereof closed pursuant to an order
or resolution adopted under Subsection A above, except as otherwise provided
in that subsection.



 



 



SEC. 80.36.10.  CRUISING PROHIBITED.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 171,574, 5/1/97.)



 



   (a)   The ranking peace officer on duty within any area affected by
traffic congestion may, having determined that such area is so affected,
establish one or more traffic control points at or near such area to regulate
cruising.  Cruising is defined to mean the driving of a motor vehicle two or
more times within a six-hour period, in a particular direction, past a
traffic control point so established on a portion of any street identified as
subject to cruising controls by signs posted at the beginning and end of the
controlled roadway that briefly and clearly state the appropriate provisions
of this section and Section 21100(k) of the Vehicle Code, and after the
operator of the vehicle, either as the operator or passenger therein, has
been given the notice specified in this section.  The ranking peace officer
on duty within, or near, the area affected by traffic congestion, or his
designee, shall be empowered to post the signs required by this section.



 



   (b)   Any person, who, as the operator of, or a passenger in, a
motor vehicle driven bin a particular direction, past any traffic control
point established by the ranking peace officer on duty within the affected
area, on a portion of any street identified as subject to cruising controls
as specified in Subsection (a), may be given written notice that further
driving past the control point, in violation of Subsection (c), hereof, will
be a violation of this section.



 



   (c)   No person, having driven a motor vehicle, or, having been a
passenger in a motor vehicle driven, past a traffic control point established
pursuant to this section and having received written notice that further
driving past the traffic control point will constitute a violation of this
section, shall drive past the control point within the period while cruising
controls are in effect.  Each successive trip past the traffic control point
shall constitute a separate violation of this section, and no additional
notice shall be required prior to issuance of a second or subsequent
citation, or arrest.



 



   (d)   This section shall not apply to:



 



   (1)   Any authorized vehicle as defined in Section 165 of the
California Vehicle Code.



 



   (2)   Any publicly owned vehicle of any city, county, district,
state or federal agency.



 



   (3)   Any vehicle licensed for public transportation or vehicles
which are normally used for business purposes and are engaged in such
business use.



 



   (e)   It shall be an infraction for any person to violate this
section and upon conviction thereof shall be punished as follows:



 



   1.   For the first offense by a fine of one hundred dollars ($100),



 



   2.   For a second offense occurring within one year of a prior
violation of this section which resulted in a conviction, by a fine of two
hundred dollars ($200),



 



   3.   For a third or any subsequent offense occurring within one year
of two or more prior violations which resulted in convictions, by a fine of
two hundred fifty dollars ($250).



 



 



 



DIVISION “I”
PEDESTRIANS



 



 



Section



80.37   Crosswalks – Department to Establish.



80.42   Hand Carts and Hand Trucks.



80.42.1   Places Closed to Pedestrian Travel.



80.44   Trains Not to Block Streets.



 



 



SEC. 80.37.  CROSSWALKS – DEPARTMENT TO ESTABLISH.



 



   The Department is hereby authorized to determine those intersections or
other places at which exceptional hazard exists to pedestrians crossing the
roadway. When such determination has been made in any case, the Department
shall install crosswalks at such intersections or other places, by
appropriate markings or other devices. (Amended by Ord. No. 134,523. Eff.
7/17/67.)



 



 



SEC. 80.42.  HAND CARTS AND HAND TRUCKS.



 



   (a)   To Comply With Traffic Laws.  Every person pushing,
propelling, moving or drawing any hand cart or hand truck used for the
transportation of persons or property upon any roadway shall be granted all
of the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the
driver of a vehicle by the Vehicle Code of this State and ordinances of this
city, except those provisions which by their very nature can have no
application.



 



   (b)   To Conform to Traffic Flow.  No person shall push, propel,
move or draw any hand cart or hand truck used for the transportation of
persons or property on a roadway in a direction opposed to the flow of
traffic thereon.



 



   (c)   Cross Roadway at Right Angles to Curb.  No person, while so
pushing, propelling, moving or drawing any hand cart or hand truck, shall
cross a roadway at any place other than by a route which is at right angles
to the curb, or by the shortest route to the opposite curb except in a marked
or unmarked crosswalk.



 



   (d)   Exemption.  This section shall not apply to any employee of
this City who is required to push, propel, move or draw a hand cart or hand
truck upon any roadway as part of his official duties.



 



 



SEC. 80.42.1.  PLACES CLOSED TO PEDESTRIAN TRAVEL.



 



   The Department is hereby authorized to determine those structures or
freeways or portions thereof, upon which travel by pedestrians constitutes a
hazard. When such determination has been made, in any case, the Department is
directed to post signs giving notice that such places are closed to
pedestrian travel. When such signs are in place, it shall be unlawful for any
pedestrian to go or travel upon, along, or across such structure, freeway,
street or public way, except to perform public work or official duty or when
unavoidable as a result of an emergency. (Amended by Ord. No. 134,523, Eff.
7/17/67.)



 



 



SEC. 80.44.  TRAINS NOT TO BLOCK STREETS.



 



   No person shall operate any train or train of cars, or permit the same
to remain standing, so as to block the movement of traffic upon any street
for a period of time longer than five (5) minutes.



 



 



 



DIVISION “K”
METHOD OF PARKING



 



 



Section



80.49   Parallel with Curb – Exceptions.



80.50   Department to Indicate Angle Parking.



80.51   Parking on Left Side of Roadway.



 



 



SEC. 80.49.  PARALLEL WITH CURB – EXCEPTIONS.



 



   No person shall stand or park a commercial vehicle in a roadway other
than parallel with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction of traffic
and with the right hand wheels of the vehicle within 18 inches of the curb
line or edge of the roadway, except as follows; (Amended by Ord. No. 122,716,
Eff. 10/5/62.)



 



   (a)   Upon those streets which have been marked or signed by the
Department for angle parking, upon which streets commercial vehicles shall be
parked at the angle to the curb indicated by such marks or signs. (Amended by
Ord. No. 134,523. Eff. 7/17/67.)



 



   (b)   Upon those streets where parking on the left side of the
roadway or otherwise is specifically provided in this chapter. (Amended by
Ord. No. 122,716, Eff. 10/5/62.)



 



   (c)   When required for the loading and unloading of such vehicles
(Amended by Ord. No. 122,716, Eff. 10/5/62.)



 



 



SEC. 80.50.  DEPARTMENT TO INDICATE ANGLE PARKING.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 134,523, Eff. 7/17/67.)



 



   The Department is hereby authorized to determine and designate those
streets and portions of streets along which the angle parking of vehicles
will reduce parking congestion to the benefit of the public and where the
surrounding conditions are such that the free movement of traffic will not be
interfered with by that method of parking. The Department is hereby directed
to mark all places so designated by white lines upon the surface of the
roadway, indicating the angle at which parking is permitted, provided,
however, that angle parking shall not be permitted



 



   (a)   At any place where passing traffic would thereby be caused or
required to drive upon the left side of the highway;



 



   (b)   Upon any street where that method of parking is prohibited by
the Vehicle Code.



 



 



SEC. 80.51.  PARKING ON LEFT SIDE OF ROADWAY.



 



   (a)   No person shall stop or park any vehicle within 18 inches of
the left hand curb of any one way roadway unless signs or markings are in
place indicating that such stopping or parking in permitted. (Amended by Ord.
No. 122,716, Eff. 10/5/62.)



 



   (b)   The Department is hereby authorized to determine those
locations where the stopping or parking of vehicles upon the left side of any
one way roadway would not constitute an undue hazard or deterrent to the free
movement of traffic. When such determination has been made the Department may
install signs or markings indicating that such stopping or parking is
permitted. (Amended by Ord. No. 134,523, Eff. 7/17/67.)



 



 



 



DIVISION “L”
STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING



 



 



Section



80.52   Application of Chapter.



80.53   Stopping, Standing or Parking in Parkway Prohibited.



80.54   Overnight Parking Prohibited or Limited.



80.55   Department May Prohibit Stopping or Parking at Certain Designated
Locations.



80.55.1   Stopping, Standing, or Parking Within 15 Feet of a Driveway Used
by Emergency Vehicles.



80.56   Establishment of Passenger, Commercial, Short Time Limit, and
“No Stopping” Curb Zones.



80.57   Establishment of Parking Zones for the Physically Handicapped.



80.58   Preferential Parking Program.



80.58.1   Parking of Carshare Vehicles.



80.58.2   Parking of Special Event Vehicles.



80.59   Removal of Chalk Marks Placed on Vehicles by City Personnel
Prohibited.



 



 



SEC. 80.52.  APPLICATION OF CHAPTER.



 



   (a)   The provisions of this chapter prohibiting the stopping,
standing or parking of a vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times
herein specified except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police
officer or official traffic control device.



 



   (b)   The provisions of this chapter imposing a time limit on
standing or parking shall not relieve any person from the duty to observe
other and more restrictive provisions prohibiting or limiting the standing or
parking of vehicles in specified places or at specified times.



 



 



SEC. 80.53.  STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING IN PARKWAY PROHIBITED.



   (Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 185,036, Eff. 8/14/17.)



 



   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle within the area of the
Parkway as defined in Section 80.00(h) of this Code.



 



 



SEC. 80.54.  OVERNIGHT PARKING PROHIBITED OR LIMITED.



   (Added by Ord. No. 176,861, Eff. 9/14/05.)



 



   (a)   Definitions:  For the purpose of this section, the following
words and phrases are defined and shall be construed as hereinafter set out,
unless it shall be apparent from the context that they have a different
meaning:



 



   1.   Dwelling Unit shall mean one or more rooms containing a
kitchen, located in a building, and designed for occupancy by one family for
living and sleeping purposes.



 



   2.   Resident shall mean a person who lives in a Dwelling Unit
located in an Overnight Parking District.



 



   3.   Visitor shall mean a person who is visiting a Resident in an
Overnight Parking District.



 



   4.   Guest shall mean a person who, for one night, is visiting a
Resident in the Resident's Dwelling Unit located in an Overnight Parking
District.



 



   5.   Overnight Parking District shall mean an area with boundaries
designated by a City Council resolution wherein the parking or standing of
vehicles on certain streets or highways, or portions thereof, is prohibited
or restricted between the hours of 2 a.m. and 6 a.m.



 



   6.   Overnight Parking Permit shall mean a permit issued by the
Department, which exempts vehicles displaying a valid permit from parking
restrictions established pursuant to this section.



 



   (b)   Designation of Overnight Parking District:  The Council may
establish, by resolution, Overnight Parking Districts with appropriate
boundaries and authorize parking restrictions to be in effect on the streets
thereof between 2 a.m. and 6 a.m.  The resolution establishing an Overnight
Parking District shall state the maximum number and type of Overnight Parking
Permits that may be issued to any one Dwelling.  The resolution shall also
establish the fee charged for each type of Overnight Parking Permit.



 



   (c)   Types of Overnight Parking Permits:  The Council may
authorize, by resolution, the Department of Transportation to issue Resident
Permits, and/or Visitor Permits and/or Guest Permits for an Overnight Parking
District if such proposed district is a residential area lacking adequate
off-street parking facilities.  Motor vehicles properly displaying a valid
Resident, Visitor or Guest Permit may be parked exempt from the parking
restrictions established pursuant to this section in the Overnight Parking
District for which the permit is issued.



 



   1.   Resident Permit:



 



   a.   Shall be issued only to a vehicle whose registration lists the
resident as the owner and the vehicle's registered address as the resident's
address in the Overnight Parking District;



 



   b.   Shall be valid on any street in the Overnight Parking District;



 



   c.   Shall be valid for a maximum period of 12 months; and



 



   d.   May be renewed annually.



 



   2.   Visitor Permit:



 



   a.   Shall be issued to a Resident of the area to be used on any
vehicle owned or leased by the Resident or his/her Visitor;



 



   b.   Shall be valid on any street in the Overnight Parking District;



 



   c.   Shall be valid for four (4) months; and



 



   d.   May be renewed every four (4) months.



 



   3.   Guest Permit:



 



   a.   Shall be issued to a Resident of the area to be used on any
vehicle owned or leased by the Resident or his/her Guest;



 



   b.   Shall be valid on any street in the Overnight Parking District;
and



 



   c.   Shall be valid only for the date specified on the permit.



 



   (d)   Issuance of Permits:  Parking permits for Overnight Parking
Districts shall be issued by the Department of Transportation or its
authorized agent.



 



   1.   Overnight Parking Permits shall be issued only to Residents of
the Overnight Parking District, except that the resolution establishing an
Overnight Parking District may authorize the Department to issue Visitor
Permit(s) to absentee landlords for their personal use or for the use of
their authorized property managers.



 



   2.   Each Resident Permit shall state or reflect thereon the
particular Overnight Parking District, the license number of the vehicle for
which the permit is issued, and the date on which the permit shall expire.



 



   3.   Each Visitor Permit shall state or reflect thereon the
particular Overnight Parking District and the date on which the permit shall
expire.



 



   4.   Each Guest Permit shall state or reflect thereon the particular
Overnight Parking District and the date on which the permit is valid.



 



   5.   Applicants for Overnight Parking Permits will be required to
pay all amounts owed to the City of Los Angeles for any outstanding
delinquent parking citations prior to the issuance of any Resident, Visitor
or Guest Permits.



 



   (e)   Posting of Overnight Parking District:  Upon designation of
an Overnight Parking District, the Department of Transportation shall cause
appropriate signs to be erected in such district in accordance with
procedures set forth in the establishing Council resolution, indicating
prominently thereon the parking limitation and the period of the day for its
application.  Such signs shall also state that motor vehicles with valid
permits shall be exempt from the restrictions.  Overnight parking
restriction signs may be posted on school and church frontages located within
the district.



 



   (f)   Permit Parking Exemption:



 



   1.   A motor vehicle on which is properly displayed a valid
Resident, Visitor or Guest Permit shall be permitted to be parked on any
block within the Overnight Parking District for which it is issued, despite
the parking restrictions established pursuant to this section.  Except as
provided below, all other motor vehicles parked within an Overnight Parking
District shall be subject to the parking restrictions adopted pursuant to
this section, as well as to the penalties herein provided.



 



   2.   An Overnight Parking Permit shall not guarantee or reserve to
the holder thereof an on-street parking space within the designated Overnight
Parking District.



 



   3.   The following vehicles shall be exempt from parking
restrictions established pursuant to this section:



 



   a.   A motor vehicle, identified as owned by or operated under
contract to a utility, whether privately, municipally or publicly owned, when
used in the construction, operation, removal, or repair of utility property
or facilities or engaged in authorized work in the designated Overnight
Parking District.



 



   b.   A motor vehicle identified as owned by or operated under
contract to a governmental agency, when used in the course of official
government business.



 



   (g)   Rules and Regulations:  The Department shall have authority
to promulgate and administer rules to implement and enforce the program and
to implement the issuance of Overnight Parking Permits as well as the
collection and deposit of fees for these permits, consistent with this
section and the direction of the Council through the resolution establishing
each Overnight Parking District.



 



   (h)   Penalty Provisions:



 



   1.   Unless exempted pursuant to this section, no person shall stand
or park a motor vehicle in violation of any parking restrictions established
pursuant to this section.



 



   2.   No person shall falsely represent himself or herself as
eligible for an Overnight Parking Permit or furnish false information in an
application for an Overnight Parking Permit to the Department.



 



   3.   No permit issued pursuant to this section shall thereafter be
assigned, transferred or used for any consideration, monetary or otherwise.



 



   4.   No person shall copy, produce or create a facsimile or
counterfeit Overnight Parking Permit; nor shall any person use or display a
facsimile or counterfeit Overnight Parking Permit.



 



   5.   The Overnight Parking Permit or Permits of any Resident who,
after a hearing, has been found by the Department to have violated any of the
provisions of this ordinance, shall be revoked by the Department and no new
Overnight Parking Permits shall be issued to that Resident or household for a
period of one year.  Such Resident, upon written notification of such
revocation, shall surrender the permit or permits to the Department within 15
days.



 



 



SEC. 80.55.  DEPARTMENT MAY PROHIBIT STOPPING OR PARKING AT CERTAIN
DESIGNATED LOCATIONS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 134,523, Eff. 7/17/67.)



 



   (a)   The Department shall prohibit the stopping or parking of
vehicles on any of the following places:



 



   1.   Any place where the stopping or parking of vehicles is
determined by the Department to constitute a hazard to traffic, life or
property, or an obstruction to vehicular or pedestrian passage;



 



   2.   Any place, within 30 feet of an intersection in any business
district, except that a bus may stop at a designated bus stop:



 



   3.   Any place within 25 feet of the approach to the nearest line of
a crosswalk, except that a bus may stop at a designated bus stop, but not
within five feet of said nearest line of a crosswalk;



 



   4.   Any place with 25 feet of any traffic signal, stop sign or
other official electrical flashing device, except that a bus may stop at a
designated bus stop, but not within five feet of any traffic signal, stop
sign or official electrical flashing device.  (Former Subdiv. 4 Deleted and
Former Subdiv. 5 Renumbered by Ord. No. 177,716, Eff. 9/4/06.)



 



   5.   Any place within 15 feet of any “yield” sign, except that a
bus may stop at a designated bus stop.  (Former Subdiv. 6 Renumbered by Ord.
No. 177,716, Eff. 9/4/06.)



 



   6.   Upon any street or portion thereof contiguous to the frontage
of any elementary school, junior or senior high school where it is determined
that parking will create a hazard to life and property, or a serious
obstruction to vehicles or pedestrian passage.  (Former Subdiv. 7 Renumbered
by Ord. No. 177,716, Eff. 9/4/06.)



 



   EXCEPTION:



 



   Authorized school buses owned by or under contract with the Board of
Education or operated by or through recognized parochial school systems are
excepted from the provisions of this subdivision when loading or unloading
during school days and hours when approved by the Department.



 



   7.   At any designated bus stop.  (Added by Ord. No. 152,426, Eff.
6/29/79; Former Subdiv. 8 Renumbered by Ord. No. 177,716, Eff. 9/4/06.)



 



   8.   Upon a bridge.  (Added by Ord. No. 184,316, Eff. 6/11/16.)



 



   EXCEPTION:



 



   The Department of Transportation is authorized pursuant to this Section
to install signs that permit parking on bridges that the Department has
determined are structurally capable of supporting parked vehicles, and have
sidewalks and shoulders of sufficient width to permit parking without
interfering with the normal movement of traffic.  Parking shall not be
permitted until signs are installed containing any time or other restrictions
that may apply.



 



   (b)   The department shall designate such places by appropriate
signs or markings, and no person shall thereafter stop or park any vehicle at
such place.



 



 



SEC.  80.55.1.  STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING WITHIN 15 FEET OF A DRIVEWAY
USED BY EMERGENCY VEHICLES.



   (Added by Ord. No. 186,219, Eff. 8/12/19.)



 



   (a)   No person shall stop, park, or leave standing a vehicle,
whether attended or unattended, except as necessary to avoid conflict with
other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a peace officer or
official traffic control device, within 15 feet of a driveway that is used by
an emergency vehicle owned or operated by the Los Angeles Police Department,
an ambulance service care provider, or general acute care hospital, to enter
or exit a police station, ambulance service provider facility, or general
acute care hospital.  This section does not apply to any vehicle owned or
operated by LAPD, LAFD, an ambulance service provider, or general acute care
hospital if the vehicle is clearly marked as a police vehicle, fire
department vehicle, ambulance, or general acute care hospital vehicle.



 



   (b)   The Department of Transportation shall install appropriate
curb markings or "KEEP CLEAR" pavement markings and post signs that delineate
the area specified in Subsection (a).



 



   (c)   Penalties.  A violation of this section shall be a civil fine
in the amount of $68; with late penalty $136; with second late penalty $161.



 



 



SEC. 80.56.  ESTABLISHMENT OF PASSENGER, COMMERCIAL, SHORT TIME LIMIT, AND
“NO STOPPING” CURB ZONES.



 



   (a)   The Department is hereby authorized to install passenger
loading zones at those locations where the Department determines that hazards
would thereby be reduced, access to property improved, or impedance to
traffic reduced. (Amended by Ord. No. 134,523, Eff. 7/17/67.)



 



   (b)   The Department is hereby authorized to install commercial
loading zones at those locations where it determines that hazards would
thereby be reduced access to property improved, or impedance to traffic
reduced. (Amended by Ord. No. 134,523, Eff. 7/17/67.)



 



   (c)   The Department is hereby authorized to install short-time
parking limit zones at those locations where it determines that access to
property would be improved or a more equitable distribution of available curb
space would be obtained. Additionally, the Department is authorized to
prescribe the longer of the two periods of time provided for below in
Subsection (e)3, if it finds that factors exist which reasonably constitute
an impediment to the utilization of nearby services and facilities within the
shorter period of time. (Amended by Ord. No. 161,733, Eff. 12/11/86.)



 



   (d)   The Department shall install red “No Stopping” zones or
signs reading “No Stopping Any Time” at places where the stopping of
vehicles is prohibited under Section 80.55 of this Code. (Amended by Ord. No.
134,523, Eff. 7/17/67.)



 



   (e)   Time Limits for All Zones.  The time limits and effective
hours of passenger loading zones, short-time parking limit zones, "No
Stopping" zones, and commercial loading zones shall be as follows:  (Amended
by Ord. No. 180,092, Eff. 9/7/08.)



 



   1.   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in any passenger
loading zone except for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers and
their personal baggage and then only for the time necessary therefor, and in
no event for more than five minutes, except for a maximum of ten minutes
where signs indicating a ten minute limit are posted.  Such passenger
loading zones shall be in effect during all times unless limited to specified
hours and/or days by posted signs.  Vehicles may be towed when passenger
loading zone signs include notice that vehicles may be removed. (Amended by
Ord. No. 182,484, Eff. 4/28/13)



 



   2.   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in a commercial
loading zone, except that commercial vehicles may stop or stand for the
purpose of loading or unloading freight for the time necessary therefor, but
not to exceed 30 minutes, except as provided in Section 88.01.1 of this
chapter.  Passenger vehicles may stop or stand for the purpose of loading or
unloading passengers and their personal baggage, and then only for the time
necessary therefor but in no event for more than five minutes.  Such
commercial loading zones shall be in effect during the hours and on the days
indicated by posted signs, or if none, between the hours of 7:00 o'clock A.M.
and 6:00 o'clock P.M. on any day except Sunday.



 



   3.   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in any short-time
parking limit zone for a period of time longer than that indicated by posted
signs or curb markings.  Such time limit shall be fifteen minutes unless the
Department determines, pursuant to Subsection (c) above, that the public
welfare requires a longer period, in which latter case the time limit shall
be thirty minutes.  Such time limits shall be in effect during the hours and
on the days indicated by posted signs, or if none, between the hours of 8:00
o'clock A.M. and 6:00 o'clock P.M. on any day except Sunday.



 



   4.   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle at any time in
any red "No Stopping" zone or portion of street posted with signs reading "No
Stopping Any Time", except that a bus may stop in such zone or portion of
street marked or sign posted as a bus stop.  Such "No Stopping" zones shall
be in effect during all times unless limited to specified hours and/or days
by posted signs.



 



   (f)   Markings for Zones.



 



   1.   Passenger Loading zones when designated by painted curbs shall
be white and stenciled “Passenger Loading Only.”



 



   (a)   White curb zones may also be stenciled “Mailbox Deposit
Only” when designated for this purpose.



 



   2.   Commercial Loading Zones when designated by painted curbs shall
be YELLOW and stenciled “Loading Only.” (Amended by Ord. No. 111,487,
Eff. 6/28/58.)



 



   3.   Short-time Parking Limit Zone when designated by painted curbs
shall be GREEN and stenciled “15 Minutes Limit” or “30 Minute Limit,”
as provided by Subsection (c) and Subdivision (3) of Subsection (e) of this
section. (Amended by Ord. No. 161,733, Eff. 12/11/86.)



 



   4.   “No Stopping” Zones when designated by painted curbs shall
be RED.



 



   5.   Official signs using above standard colors and legends may be
posted by the Department in lieu of painting the curbs. (Amended by Ord. No.
134,523, Eff. 7/17/67.)



 



   The 30 day period of Penal Code Section 1382 does not begin to run as
of the date a citation is placed upon an illegally parked car.



   People v. Miller (1954) CR A 3178.



 



 



SEC. 80.57.  ESTABLISHMENT OF PARKING ZONES FOR THE PHYSICALLY HANDICAPPED.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 151,833, Eff. 2/10/79, Oper. 2/25/79.)



 



   The Department of Transportation is hereby authorized to designate
parking spaces for the exclusive use of those physically handicapped persons
whose vehicles display the distinguishing license plates or placards issued
to disabled persons pursuant to Section 22511.5 of the Vehicle Code or to
disabled veterans, as specified in Section 9105 of the Vehicle Code. Such
parking spaces may be designated whenever the Department of Transportation
determines that access to property would be improved for physically
handicapped persons or that hazards or impedance to traffic would be reduced,
and shall be indicated by blue paint on the curb or the edge of the paved
portion of the street adjacent to the space. In addition to the blue paint,
this space may also be indicated by signs adjacent to the parking space or by
other suitable means.



 



 



SEC. 80.58.  PREFERENTIAL PARKING PROGRAM.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 171,029, Eff. 6/1/96.)



 



   (a)   Definitions:  For the purpose of this section, the following
words and phrases are defined and shall be construed as hereinafter set out,
unless it shall be apparent from the context that they have a different
meaning:



 



   1.   A commuter vehicle shall mean a motor vehicle parked in a
residential area which is not owned, leased or otherwise controlled by:



 



   a.   A resident who lives in the area designated as a preferential
parking district;



 



   b.   A guest visiting residents living in the area designated as a
preferential parking district.



 



   2.   Resident shall mean person who lives in a dwelling unit located
in a preferential parking district.



 



   3.   Absentee landlord shall mean an owner of residential property
who does not live on the property.  Such property shall be located in a
preferential parking district.



 



   4.   Guest shall mean a person who is visiting in a  dwelling
located in a preferential parking district.



 



   5.   Preferential parking district shall mean a residential area
with streets and boundaries designated by a City Council resolution wherein
vehicles displaying a valid permit shall be exempt from parking restrictions
established pursuant to this section.



 



   (b)   Designation of Preferential Parking District:  Preferential
parking districts may be designated or dissolved, including those created by
ordinance, by a City Council resolution.



 



   The City Council shall, upon recommendation of the Department, consider
for designation as preferential parking districts those areas satisfying the
criteria established in this section for said districts.



 



   If the Council determines that the criteria, rules and procedures
required in this section have been met, it may establish, by resolution,
preferential parking districts with appropriate boundaries and parking
restrictions.  Motor vehicles displaying a valid parking permit may be
parked exempt from the parking restrictions established pursuant to the
authority of this section in the preferential parking district for which the
permit is issued.



 



   (c)   Designation Process and Criteria:  The Department shall
prepare Rules and Procedures for the designation of Preferential Parking
Districts setting forth the petition process, the hearing and notification
processes, reporting requirements, criteria for designation of a preferential
parking district and for the implementation and administration of this
section.  Those rules and procedures, and any substantial changes thereto,
shall be effective upon approval by the City Council.



 



   (d)   Temporary Preferential Parking Districts:



 



   1.   Temporary preferential parking districts may be established by
Council resolution to provide relief for residents who suffer an excessive
parking impact as a result of a natural disaster such as fire, flood,
earthquake, or  landslide; as the result of an occurrence that creates
unusual media attention; or as the result of any conditions which impact
fewer than six blocks and which, in the judgment of the Council member of the
District and after consultation with the Parking Administrator, deserve
immediate relief until a permanent solution can be found.



 



   2.   The Council shall accept testimony and make a finding that an
adverse parking impact exists prior to approving the resolution.



 



   3.   Any District established pursuant to this section, shall be
limited in duration to a maximum of 12 months from the date of approval of
the resolution.  Such district may be renewed on an annual basis
administratively by the General Manager of the Department until either a
permanent solution is found or the problem ceases to exist.  If a Council
member requests in writing to review a temporary preferential parking
district prior to the expiration of the district, the Department shall not
renew the district and shall submit a written report to the City Council. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 182,703, Eff. 10/15/13.)



 



   4.   The Department shall post the streets included in the temporary
district upon receipt of the necessary petitions.



 



   5.   Residents shall be required to purchase permits in accordance
with established requirements in order to retain the district.



 



   (e)   Issuance of Permits:  Parking permits for preferential
parking districts shall be issued by the Department.



 



   1.   Each annual parking permit shall be designated to state or
reflect thereon the particular preferential parking district, the license
number of the vehicle for which the permit is issued and the date on which
the permit shall expire.



 



   2.   No more than three Annual parking permits shall be issued to
any one dwelling unit as defined in Section 12.03 of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code except at the discretion of the Department, which discretion
is consistent with the Department rules adopted pursuant to Subsection (k)
hereof.



 



   3.   Parking permits may be issued only to residents of the
preferential parking district.



 



   4.   Four-month Visitor permits shall be issued as provided in
Subsection (m).



 



   5.   One-day Guest permits shall be issued as provided in Subsection
(m).



 



   6.   Applicants for any parking permits are required to clear all
unpaid parking citations prior to the issuance of new permits or renewals for
Annual or Visitor Permits.



 



   f.   Posting of Permit Parking Area:  Upon designation of a
preferential parking district, the Department shall cause appropriate signs
to be erected in the district, indicating prominently thereon the parking
limitation, period of the day for its application, and the fact that motor
vehicles with valid permits shall be exempt therefrom.  Parking restrictions
signs may be posted on school and church frontages located within the
district.



 



   g.   Permit Parking Exemption:



 



   1.   A motor vehicle on which is displayed a valid Annual one-day
Guest parking permit, as provided for herein, shall be permitted to be parked
on any block within the preferential parking district for which it is issued
without being limited by parking restrictions established pursuant to this
section.  A motor vehicle on which is displayed a valid four-month Visitor
permit, as provided for herein, shall be permitted to be parked in a
preferential parking district only on the block or blocks for which the
permit is issued without being limited by parking restrictions on that block
or blocks established pursuant to this section.  Except as provided below,
all other motor vehicles parked within a preferential parking district shall
be subject to the parking restrictions adopted as provided in this section as
well as the penalties provided for herein.



 



   2.   A preferential parking permit shall not guarantee or reserve to
the holder thereof an on-street parking space within the designated
preferential parking district.



 



   3.   The following vehicles shall be exempt from parking
restrictions established pursuant to this section:



 



   a.   A motor vehicle, identified as owned by or operated under
contract to a utility, whether privately, municipally or publicly owned, when
used in the construction, operation, removal, or repair of utility property
or facilities or engaged in authorized work in the designated preferential
parking district.



 



   b.   A motor vehicle when identified as owned by or operated under
contract to a governmental agency, when used in the course of official
government business.



 



   c.   A vehicle which displays either a distinguishing license plate
or placard issued pursuant to Sections 22511.5 or 22511.9 of the Vehicle Code.



 



   (h)   Exemption of Commercial Vehicles:  No person shall without a
permit therefor park or leave standing any commercial vehicle or trailer in a
preferential parking district in excess of the parking restrictions
authorized pursuant to this section, except



 



   (a)   while loading or unloading property; or



 



   (b)   when such vehicle is parked in connection with, or in aid of,
the performance of a service to or on a property in the block in which such
vehicle is parked.



 



   (i)   Application for and Duration of Permit:  Except as otherwise
provided, each Annual parking permit issued by the Department shall be valid
for a period not to exceed one year.  Permits may be renewed annually upon
reapplication in the manner required by the Department.  Each application
for a parking permit shall contain information sufficient to identify the
applicant, his residence address or address of real property owned or leased
within a preferential parking district, the license number(s) of the motor
vehicle(s) for which application is made, and such other information as may
be deemed relevant by the Department.  Annual permits may be issued only for
vehicles registered in the State of California.



 



   (j)   Annual Permit Fees:  The fee for an Annual preferential
parking permit shall be $34.00.  The fee for an Annual preferential parking
permit shall be prorated by the month for the unexpired period of the
district, but in no case less than $11.50.  Upon the permittee's change of
place of residence, change of vehicle or damaged permit, the permittee shall
surrender the permit to the Department before a replacement permit can be
issued.  If the permit is lost or stolen, the Department shall be notified
immediately.  The Department shall collect a fee of $11.50 for replacement
of lost, stolen or transferred permits and the replacement permit shall
expire on the same day as the original permit.  In the event a permittee
moves from one preferential parking district to another preferential parking
district, the Department shall collect a fee of $11.50 for the transfer of
the permit.  The permits so transferred shall expire on the same day as do
all permits in the new district.  No refund shall be made for any unused
portion of the permit's duration.  (Amended by Ord. No. 180,059, Eff.
8/30/08.)



 



   (k)   Rules and Regulations:  The Department shall have authority
to promulgate and administer rules to implement and enforce the program and
to implement the issuance of preferential parking permits and the collection
of fees for these permits.  These rules shall be submitted to and approved
by the City Council.



 



   (l)   Penalty Provisions:



 



   1.   Unless exempted pursuant to this section, no person shall stand
or park a motor vehicle in violation of any parking restrictions established
pursuant to this section.



 



   2.   No person shall falsely represent himself or herself  as
eligible for a parking permit or furnish false information in an application
for a  parking permit to the Department.



 



   3.   No permit issued pursuant to this section shall thereafter be
assigned, transferred or used for any consideration, monetary or otherwise.



 



   4.   No person shall copy, produce or create a facsimile or
counterfeit parking permit; nor shall any person use or display a facsimile
or counterfeit preferential parking district permit.



 



   5.   The permit or permits of any person who after a hearing has
been found by the Department to have violated any of the provisions of this
ordinance shall be revoked by the Department and no new permit shall be
issued to that person or household for a period of one year.  Such person
upon written notification of such revocation, shall surrender the permit or
permits to the Department within 15 days.  Use of a revoked parking permit
shall be subject to the penalty provisions of Subsection l(1).



 



   6.   Use of a four-month Visitor parking permit on any  block other
than that for which the permit was issued shall be subject to the  penalty
provisions of Subsection l(1).



 



   (m)   Visitor and Guest Permits:  Any resident eligible for an
Annual preferential parking permit and whose residence has frontage or side
frontage on a block posted with preferential parking restrictions may apply
to the Department for a four-month Visitor preferential parking permit for
the use of visitors to the person's residence.  The owners of a residence
under construction and absentee landlords may purchase a maximum of two
Visitor preferential parking permits for their personal use or for the use of
construction service personnel.  Schools and churches that have frontage
onto streets posted with preferential parking restrictions shall be permitted
to purchase Visitor preferential parking permits equivalent to the number of
parking spaces allowable on its posted (otherwise unrestricted) frontage. 
Where the frontage is limited, the number of permits to be sold shall be
determined by the Department of Transportation.  The Department shall
collect a fee of $22.50 for each permit issued.  No more than two Visitor
preferential parking permits shall be issued for any one dwelling at any one
time.  These permits shall be valid only on the block or blocks for which
they are issued and for a period not to exceed four months.  One Visitor
preferential parking permit per year per household can be replaced at a
prorated cost when lost or stolen if the applicant submits written
documentation of actual loss to the Department.  In addition, any resident
in the district may also apply for one-day Guest preferential parking permits
for the use of guests to the person's residence for which the Department
shall collect a fee of $2.50 for each permit issued.  Guest preferential
parking permits shall be valid on any block within a district.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 180,059, Eff. 8/30/08.)



 



 



SEC. 80.58.1.  PARKING OF CARSHARE VEHICLES.



   (Added by Ord. No. 180,602, Eff. 4/24/09.)



 



   (a)   Definitions:  For the purpose of this Section, the following
words and phrases are defined and shall be construed as hereinafter set out,
unless it shall be apparent from the context that they have a different
meaning:



 



   1.   A Carshare Vehicle shall mean a motor vehicle that is operated
as part of a regional fleet by a public or private car sharing company or
organization and provides hourly or daily service.



 



   2.   The City's Carshare Program shall mean a program whereby the
Department of Transportation designates parking spaces for the exclusive use
of vehicles displaying Department-issued Carshare Permits.



 



   3.   A Carshare Permit shall mean a permit issued by the Department
of Transportation to a Carshare Vehicle meeting the requirements of this
section, which exempts the vehicle from the parking restrictions posted
pursuant to this section.



 



   4.   An Eligible Carshare Organization shall mean a public or
private company or organization satisfying the criteria of this section.



 



   (b)   Designation of Spaces:  The Department of Transportation is
hereby authorized to designate streets or portions of streets, or Publicly
Owned Off-Street Parking Facilities or portions of the Facilities, upon which
parking is reserved for the exclusive use of vehicles displaying a permit
issued pursuant to the provisions of Subsection (e) of this Section.  No
person shall park, when authorized signs are in place giving notice thereof,
any vehicle or motor vehicle in a place designated for the exclusive parking
of motor vehicles participating in the City's Carshare Program.  Only
vehicles that have a properly displayed, City-issued Carshare Permit are
exempt from this restriction.  (First Sentence Amended by Ord. No. 182,187,
Eff. 8/22/12.)



 



   (c)   Eligibility Criteria for Carshare Organizations: 
Participation in the City's Carshare Program is limited to carshare companies
or organizations that meet the following criteria:



 



   1.   Vehicle reservations are processed and paid for using an online
system.



 



   2.   Carshare vehicles can be accessed where they are parked without
having to go to a different physical location to execute a contract and/or
pick up the keys.



 



   3.   For purposes of the Pilot Program, a Qualified Carshare
Organization (QCO) shall be an organization owning or operating at least 100
vehicles as part of a regional fleet for hire by individuals for self-service
operation to provide hourly or daily service, and for which the QCO provides
liability insurance of at least the City required minimums.  A QCO shall not
include a taxi or a privately owned and operated vehicle subcontracted under
a rideshare program, or a charter party carrier or other vehicle regulated,
licensed or permitted by the California Public Utilities Commission. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 183,569, Eff. 7/9/15.)



 



   (d)   Vehicle Requirements.  (Amended by Ord. No. 185,761, Eff.
10/19/18.)  A Carshare Vehicle participating in the Carshare Pilot Program
shall not be more than 72 inches in height or 20 feet in length.  A QCO
shall not place a vehicle in service in the City unless the vehicle has been
preapproved by the Department, a permit for the vehicle has been obtained
from the Department, and the QCO has paid all applicable fees and
administrative costs as set forth in Subsection (e) and the Department's
Rules and Regulations.



 



   (e)   Issuance of Permits.  (Amended by Ord. No. 185,761, Eff.
10/19/18.)  The Department is hereby authorized to issue a Carshare Permit
to a qualifying vehicle of an Eligible Carshare Organization participating in
the City's Carshare Program, utilizing either Fixed-Space or Free-Floating
Programs as defined in the Department's Rules and Regulations.



 



   1.   Program Fees.



 



   a.   Annual Permit Fee.  $250 per each Carshare Vehicle; fee
applies to both Fixed-Space and Free-Floating programs.



 



   b.   One-Time Implementation Fee.  $200 per each converted space
for Fixed-Space program.



 



   c.   Permit Replacement Fee. $11.50 per each replacement; fee
applies to both Fixed-Space and Free-Floating programs.



 



   2.   Parking/Meter Recovery Fees.



 



   a.   Fixed-Space Program.



 



   (i)   Metered Spaces.  Fees will be charged and collected from each
QCO per Fixed-Space according to the table below for meters that generate
$3,600 per year or less.



 



 


Zone Number

 

Annual Meter Revenue
(Gross Range)

 

Monthly Tier Fee

 

Annual Fee for Use




3

 

$2,001 - $3,600

 

$275

 

$3,300




2

 

$1,001 - $2,000

 

$175

 

$2,100




1

 

< $1,000

 

$75

 

$900




 



   (ii)   Non-Metered On-Street Spaces.



 



   (a)   $75 monthly fee per each converted space from a reclaimed red
zone or other non-metered curb.



 



   (b)   If the designated space is located on a block that
subsequently becomes metered, the Department shall determine the monthly fee
by the collected meter revenue, as specified in Subsection (e)2.a.(i).



 



   (iii)   Unmetered Off-Street City Controlled Spaces.  Annually, the
QCO shall pay the City for each Fixed-Space converted for use under this
program in off-street City controlled parking lots and structures in the
amount equal to:



 



   (a)   The monthly charge per space multiplied by the number of
spaces multiplied by 12 months, where a monthly rate is available to the
general public; or



 



   (b)   Where a daily rate is offered, the QCO shall pay to the City
the daily rate multiplied by the number of spaces multiplied by the number of
days in the year; or



 



   (c)   In a lot where only an hourly rate is charged, the QCO shall
pay the City for the number of spaces multiplied by the charge per hour
multiplied by the number of hours available for public use multiplied by the
number of days available for public use.



 



   b.   Free-Floating Program.



 



   (i)   Initial Payment Per Vehicle:  $1,500 per vehicle.



 



   (ii)   The Department will calculate the final payment by
subtracting the initial $1,500 per vehicle payment from the actual meter
revenue.



 



   (f)   Posting of Carshare Vehicle Parking Spaces:  Upon Department
of Transportation designation of streets or portions of streets, or Publicly
Owned Off-Street Parking Facilities or portions of the Facilities, to be
reserved for the exclusive parking of Carshare Vehicles, the Department shall
cause appropriate signs to be erected in such street or Publicly Owned
Off-Street Parking Facilities, indicating prominently thereon the parking
restrictions and stating that motor vehicles with valid permits shall be
exempt from the restrictions.  The Department is further authorized to
include notice, on any sign installed pursuant to this section, that vehicles
left standing in violation of such sign may be removed.  The provisions of
this section shall not apply until signs or markings giving adequate notice
thereof are in place.  (First Sentence Amended by Ord. No. 182,187, Eff.
8/22/12.)



 



   (g)   Electrical Vehicle Charging Stations (EV) installed in the
Public Right-of-Way as part of an EV care share Disadvantaged Communities
Pilot Program Agreement, approved by City Council, shall be exempt from the
provisions of Los Angeles Municipal Code Section 62.08 (Specifications and
Procedures for Above Ground Facilities Installations in the Public
Rights-of-Way).  (Added by Ord. No. 184,724, Eff. 3/6/17.)



 



   (h)   Parking Restrictions for Free-Floating Program.  (Added by
Ord. No. 185,761, Eff. 10/19/18.)  The Department shall issue a master
citywide parking permit to a vehicle in a Free-Floating Carshare Program once
all applicable fees have been paid.  With this permit, the vehicle may park
in any designated meter or non-metered parking space during the times when
parking is legally allowed.



 



   1.   A vehicle is prohibited from parking in any colored curb space,
including a parking restricted space marked with a red, blue, yellow, green
or white color.



 



   2.   A vehicle is prohibited from ending the lease by leaving the
vehicle in a peak hour travel lane, regardless of the time of day.



 



   3.   A vehicle is not subject to posted time, Preferential Parking
district, and Overnight Parking District restrictions, unless otherwise
stated in this section.



 



   4.   A violation will be subject to appropriate citations and/or
tows.



 



 



SEC. 80.58.2.  PARKING OF SPECIAL EVENT VEHICLES.



   (Added by Ord. No. 183,135, Eff. 7/8/14.)



 



   (a)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this Section, the following
words and phrases are defined and shall be construed as hereinafter set out,
unless it shall be apparent from the context that they have a different
meaning:



 



   (1)   A Special Event, as defined in Los Angeles Municipal Code
section 41.20.1(a)(9) and restated in this Section, means an event, or series
of related events, of cultural, civic, economic, social, recreational or
educational nature, including Athletic Events, sponsored by an individual or
individuals, a non-profit organization or community group, charitable
organization or for-profit organization or group, that is: (1) held wholly or
partially on property owned or maintained by the City; or (2) held on any
other property, and that requires for its successful execution, the partial
or complete closure of streets or sidewalks, or the reservation of dedicated
on-street parking spaces for special event vehicle parking, or the provision
and coordination of municipal services to a degree over and above the level
that the City normally provides.  Special Events also include any other
organized activity that involves the use of, or has a direct or indirect
impact on public property or facilities or that can reasonably be foreseen to
have such an impact on, or to require a higher level of public safety
services or other municipal services, including advance planning services,
than that normally provided by the City.  The Police Department shall remain
the permitting entity for Parades and Assemblies, as defined in Section
103.111(b) of this Code.  The City may contract for permit application
coordination services for City-issued permits for entertainment
industry-related Special Events, such as motion picture filming, television
filming and photography.  The City's contractor, and not the One-Stop
Special Events Permit Office, will coordinate the processing of permit
applications for permits the City issues for entertainment industry-related
Special Events.  In addition, the receipt, evaluation, processing and
approval of City permits for entertainment industry-related Special Events
shall be the responsibility of the City Council or of the City department or
office to which the Council, by order, resolution or ordinance has delegated,
or in the future may delegate, such authority, as provided in Sections
22.350, and following, of the Los Angeles Administrative Code and in Section
12.22 A.13. of this Code.



 



   (2)   A Special Event Vehicle shall mean a motor vehicle that is
operated as part of the Special Event, is parked in the roadway, and which
provides goods, services, or information directly to patrons of the Special
Event.



 



   (3)   A Special Event Permit shall mean a "Special Event Permit"
issued by the Bureau of Street Services, or a copy of the original "Special
Event Permit" issued to a Special Event Vehicle, meeting the requirements of
this Section; which exempts the vehicle from posted parking restrictions
pursuant to this Section; however, a Special Event Permit does not exempt a
vehicle from complying with all other parking restrictions or limitations,
including but not limited to, red or other colored curb markings, crosswalks,
fire hydrants, or parking prohibitions listed in California Vehicle Code
Section 22500.



 



   (b)   Designation of Spaces.  The Department of Transportation is
hereby authorized to designate streets, or portions thereof, upon which
parking is reserved for the exclusive use of City-permitted Special Events
Vehicles.  No person shall park, when authorized signs are in place giving
notice thereof, any vehicle or motor vehicle in a place designated for the
exclusive parking of Special Event Vehicles.  Vehicles that have a properly
displayed, Bureau of Street Services Special Event Permit are exempt from
this restriction.  Also exempt are City vehicles operated by a peace
officer, as defined in Chapter 4.5 (commencing with Section 830) of Title 3
of Part 2 of the California Penal Code, or a Department of Transportation
employee, or a Bureau of Street Services employee, when acting in the scope
of his or her duties.



 



   (c)   Display of Permit.  The operator of the Special Event Vehicle
parking in the place designated for the exclusive use of Special Event
Vehicles shall have the portion of the Special Events Permit that specifies
the name of the Special Event, the date of the Special Event, the location of
the designated Special Event parking area, and the license plate of the
Special Event Vehicle, displayed where it is completely visible through the
front windshield of the vehicle.  The driver is responsible to make sure
that the permit is readable from outside the front window of the vehicle. 
If the permit is not readable, the City shall not be obligated to cancel
citations for misidentified vehicles.  Each of the permits shall be valid
for the day or days that the Special Event occurs.  The date and the license
plate of the Special Event Vehicle shall be handwritten on the Special Events
Permit by the organizer of the Special Event.



 



   (d)   Issuance of Permits.  The Bureau of Street Services and the
Police Department are hereby authorized to issue Special Events Permits to
qualifying vehicles as described in Sections 41.20 and 41.20.1 of this Code.



 



   (e)   Posting of Special Events Vehicle Parking Spaces.  Upon
Department of Transportation designation of streets or portions of streets to
be reserved for the exclusive parking of Special Events Vehicles, the
Department shall cause appropriate signs to be posted in said streets,
indicating prominently thereon the parking limitation and stating that motor
vehicles with valid permits shall be exempt from the restrictions.  The
Department is further authorized to include notice on any sign installed
pursuant to this section, that vehicles left standing in violation of such
sign may be removed at the owner's expense.  The provisions of this section
shall not apply until signs or markings giving adequate notice thereof are in
place.



 



   (f)   Penalty Provisions.



 



   1.   Unless exempted pursuant to this Section, no person shall stand
or park a motor vehicle in violation of any parking restrictions established
pursuant to this Section.  Violations of this Section are subject to civil
parking penalties listed in Section 89.60 of this Code.  In addition, a
violator's vehicle may be impounded pursuant to California Vehicle Code
Section 22651(n) by a peace officer, as defined in Chapter 4.5 (commencing
with Section 830) of Title 3 of Part 2 of the California Penal Code, or a
regularly employed and salaried employee of the City of Los Angeles, who is
engaged in directing traffic or enforcing parking laws and regulations within
the City, where the signs are posted giving notice of removal.  The
impounding agency shall have the authority to provide post-storage impound
hearings in compliance with the provisions of California Vehicle Code Section
22852.



 



   2.   No person shall falsely represent himself or herself as
eligible for a Special Events Parking Permit or furnish false information in
an application for a Special Events Parking Permit.



 



   3.   No permit issued pursuant to this Section shall thereafter be
assigned, transferred or used for any consideration, monetary or otherwise.



 



   4.   No person shall copy, produce or create a facsimile or
counterfeit Special Events Parking Permit; nor shall any person use or
display a facsimile or counterfeit Special Events Parking Permit.



 



   5.   Any Recipient of a Special Parking Permit or Permits, who,
after a hearing, has been found by the Department to have violated any of the
provisions of this ordinance, shall have the permit or permits revoked by the
Department and no new Special Events Parking Permits shall be issued to that
Recipient for a period of one year.  Such Recipient, upon written
notification of such revocation, shall surrender the permit or permits to the
Department within fifteen (15) days.



 



 



SEC. 80.59.  REMOVAL OF CHALK MARKS PLACED ON VEHICLES BY CITY PERSONNEL
PROHIBITED.



   (Added by Ord. No. 164,548, Eff. 11/30/80.)



 



   (a)   Police officers, traffic officers and parking control checkers
are hereby authorized to place chalk marks on parked vehicles in performance
of their duties in enforcing vehicle parking laws within the City of Los
Angeles.



 



   (b)   No person shall remove any chalk mark placed upon a vehicle
pursuant to this section unless such vehicle has been removed from City
streets or has been driven a minimum of one mile after leaving the parked
location where the chalk mark was affixed. (Amended by Ord. No. 162,942, Eff.
12/19/87.)



 



 



 



DIVISION “M”
STOPPING FOR LOADING OR UNLOADING ONLY



 



 



Section



80.60   Effect of Permission to Load or Unload.



80.61   Standing in Any Alley.



80.66.1   Taxicab and Other Passenger Vehicle Zone.



 



 



SEC. 80.60.  EFFECT OF PERMISSION TO LOAD OR UNLOAD.



 



   (a)   Permission herein granted to stop or stand a vehicle for
purposes of loading and unloading of materials shall apply only to commercial
vehicles and shall not extend beyond the time necessary therefor, and in no
event for more than thirty (30) minutes, except as provided in Section
88.01.1 of this chapter.  (Amended by Ord. No. 170,019, Eff. 10/21/94.)



 



   (b)   The loading or unloading of materials shall apply only to
commercial deliveries and to the delivery or pickup of express and parcel
post packages and United States mail.



 



   (c)   Permission herein granted to stand or park for purposes of
loading or unloading passengers shall include the loading or unloading of
personal baggage, but shall not extend beyond the time necessary therefor,
and in no event more than five minutes, except for a maximum of ten minutes
where signs indicating a ten minute limit are posted.  (Amended by Ord. No.
182,484, Eff. 4/28/13.)



 



   (d)   Within the total time limits above specified the provisions of
this section shall be enforced so as to accommodate necessary and reasonable
loading or unloading but without permitting abuse of the privileges hereby
granted.



 



   “We see no reason to doubt the validity of the ordinance under which
appellant was convicted.”



   People v. Johnson (1932), CR A 818.



 



 



SEC. 80.61.  STANDING IN ANY ALLEY.



 



   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose other
than the loading or unloading of persons or materials in any alley.



 



 



SEC. 80.66.1.  TAXICAB AND OTHER PASSENGER VEHICLE ZONE.



 



   (a)   The Department is authorized to establish taxicab zones and
zones for other vehicles defined in Section 71.00 of this code, or operated
in passenger transportation service by authority of the California Public
Utilities Commission, and to determine the locations thereof, such zones to
be used for the parking of vehicles while awaiting employment.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 152,426, Eff. 6/29/79.)



 



   (b)   Any zone so designated shall be occupied only during such
hours of the day and for such periods of time as may be specified by the
Department.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,880, Eff. 5/21/01.)



 



   (c)   The Department shall promptly cause each such zone so
established to be marked either by a painting of a white line on the tops of
the curbs or places stenciled with the words "No Stopping" together with the
appropriate words such as "Taxicab Zone", or by appropriate posted signs. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 180,092, Eff. 9/7/08.)



 



   (d)   No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle except those
authorized by the Department in any zone established in accordance with the
provisions of this section.  (Amended by Ord. No. 152,426, Eff. 6/29/79.)



 



 



 



DIVISION “N”
PARKING PROHIBITED OR LIMITED



 



 



Section



80.69   Parking Prohibited or Limited.



80.69.1   Parking of Trailers and Semitrailers.



80.69.2   Parking – Commercial Vehicles.



80.69.3   Parking of Commercial and Construction Vehicles under Freeway
Overpasses.



80.69.4   Parking of Oversize Vehicles.



80.70   Parking Prohibited or Limited in Anti-Gridlock Zones.



80.71.3   Parking in Front Yards.



80.71.4   Prohibition of Parking of Vehicles Without Permission on
Privately Owned or Publicly Owned Property.



80.72   Parking Prohibited or Limited on Certain Streets on Red Flag Alert
Days.



80.72.5   Parking Prohibited or Limited on Private Streets.



80.73   Catering Trucks.



80.73.1   Use of Streets for Storage of Vehicles – Prohibited.



80.73.2   Use of Street for Storage of Vehicles – Generally – When
Prohibited.



80.73.3   Selling, Leasing, Reserving or Facilitating the Reserving of
Public Ways – Prohibited.



80.74   Washing Vehicles in Street.



80.75.1   Parking with Audible Status Indicator Operative.



80.75.3   Parking Automobiles on Streets Exceeding Grade of 3%.



80.75.4   Emergency Rules and Signs.



 



 



SEC. 80.69.  PARKING PROHIBITED OR LIMITED.



   (Title Amended by Ord. No. 122,716, Eff. 10/5/62.)



 



   Whenever, with reference to any street or portion thereof, the
Department determines that:  (1)  the same is within a business district;
or  (2)  because of proximity to a business district or center of
employment; or  (3)  because of an unusual concentration of population;
or  (4)  because vehicles which are six feet or more in height (including
any load thereon) parked within 100 feet of an intersection limit the
visibility of approaching traffic and thereby create a hazard; or  (5) 
because of any other factor or condition, the unrestricted parking of
vehicles has caused, or would necessarily cause, traffic congestion, create a
hazard, detrimentally affect the public welfare, or deprive the public of the
efficient use of available curb space, the Department is hereby authorized to
install at any such place signs giving notice that no person shall stand,
stop or park a vehicle except as provided on such signs. The Department is
further authorized to include notice on any sign which prohibits the stopping
or parking of vehicles, that vehicles parked or left standing in violation of
such sign may be removed.  (Amended by Ord. No. 161,645, Eff. 10/17/86.)



 



   (a)   Stopping or Standing Prohibited.  Whenever authorized signs
are in place giving notice that stopping or standing is prohibited during
such hours or on such days as are indicated on such signs, it shall be
unlawful for any person to stop or stand or park any vehicle at any time
during such hours or such days.



 



   (b)   Parking Prohibited.  Whenever authorized signs are in place
giving notice that parking, as defined in Section 463 of the California
Vehicle Code, is prohibited at any time or during certain hours, it shall be
unlawful for any person to park any vehicle during such prohibited times,
except as provided in Section 88.01.1 of this chapter.  (Amended by Ord. No.
170,019, Eff. 10/21/94.)



 



   (c)   Parking Time Limits.  Whenever authorized signs are in place
giving notice thereof, it shall be unlawful for any person to stop or  stand
or park any vehicle for a period of time in excess of  the parking time
limit indicated by such sign, except as provided in Section 88.01.1 of this
chapter.  (Amended by Ord. No. 170,019, Eff. 10/21/94.)



 



   (d)   Limitation for Vehicles Six Feet or More in Height.  Whenever
authorized signs are in place giving notice thereof, it shall be unlawful for
any person to park or stand a vehicle more than six feet in height, including
any load thereon, within 100 feet of an intersection. (New (d) Added by Ord.
No. 161,645, Eff. 10/17/86.)



 



   (e)   Exceptions.  The restrictions of this chapter shall not apply
to taxicabs, sight-seeing automobiles, or automobiles for hire standing in
any zone designated for their use pursuant to Section 80.66.1 during the
hours specified in their respective permits issued by the Department.
(Amended by Ord. No. 161,645, Eff. 10/17/86.)



 



   (f)   Streets Withdrawn From Public Use.  The restrictions and
exceptions of this section shall apply, in addition to a street as defined by
the Vehicle Code, or any portion thereof, to any street, roadway, way or
place, or portion thereof, which has been withdrawn in whole or in part from
public use. (Amended by Ord. No. 161,645, Eff. 10/17/86.)



 



   (g)   Severability.  If any subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or
portion of this section is for any reason held to be invalid or
unconstitutional by the decision of any court of competent jurisdiction, such
decision shall not affect the validity if the remaining portions of this
section. The Council of the City hereby declares that it would have adopted
the section, subsection, clause, phrase or portion thereof, irrespective of
the fact that any portion or more subsections, clauses, phrases or portions
be declared invalid or unconstitutional. (Re-lettered by Ord. No. 161,645,
Eff. 10/17/86.)



 



 



SEC. 80.69.1.  PARKING OF TRAILERS AND SEMITRAILERS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 152,320, Eff. 6/16/79.)



 



   (a)   No person shall park any trailer or semitrailer upon any
highway, street, alley or public way or upon any public place otherwise
ordinarily used for vehicular parking.



 



   (b)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any trailer
or semitrailer which does not exceed 22 feet in overall length, as measured
from the foremost part of the trailer hitch to the rear extremity of the
trailer body, or to any trailer or semitrailer exceeding such length which is
designed for the transportation of a boat or which is designed for human
habitation for camping or recreational purposes, nor shall such provisions
apply to any trailer or semitrailer which is:



 



   1.   In the process of being loaded or unloaded;



 



   2.   Disabled in such a manner and to such an extent that it is
impossible to avoid stopping and temporarily leaving the disabled trailer or
semitrailer on that portion of the highway, street, alley or public way or
upon any public place otherwise ordinarily used for vehicular parking;



 



   3.   Leased or owned by any permittee granted a permit under the
provisions of Article 8 of Chapter 13 of Division 22 of the Los Angeles
Administrative Code, for the duration of such permit and while parked at the
location specified in such permit.



 



   4.   Leased or owned by any permittee granted a permit for
construction or repair work under any of the provisions of Chapter VI of the
Los Angeles Municipal Code or by a public utility engaged in work for which
no such permit is required, or a vehicle leased or owned by any contractor
hired by such permittee or public utility, provided that the trailer or
semitrailer is used in connection with such construction or repair work and
is parked upon the construction or repair site or within 150 feet thereof, as
measured from the limits of the work area as specified in the permit, and
only during the period of actual construction.



 



   5.   Leased or owned by a City department or a contractor or vendor
hired by a City department for construction or repair work, or by a
subcontractor thereof, provided that such trailer or semitrailer is used in
connection with such construction or repair work, and is parked upon the
construction or repair site or within 150 feet thereof, as measured from the
limits of the work area, and only during the period of actual construction or
repair.



 



   (c)   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (b) of this
section, no person shall park or leave standing, when authorized signs are in
place giving notice thereof, any unhitched trailer upon any major highway,
secondary highway, or collector street in the City.  (Added by Ord. No.
177,086, Eff. 12/11/05.)



 



 



SEC. 80.69.2.  PARKING - COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 168,782, Eff. 7/12/93.)



 



   No person shall park or leave standing any commercial vehicle or any
other vehicle exceeding 22 feet in length as measured from bumper to bumper,
other than a house car, on any public street where a majority of the
buildings situated on the property contiguous thereto is used for residential
purposes, whether as single-family dwellings or as multi-family dwellings,
nor shall any person park or leave standing any commercial vehicle for more
than three (3) hours on any other public street, except that any vehicle
regulated herein may park notwithstanding such prohibition or in excess of
such time limitation:



 



   (1)   While loading or unloading property, and additional time is
necessary to complete such work; or



 



   (2)   When such vehicle is parked in connection with, and in aid of,
the performance of a service to or on a property in the block in which such
vehicle is parked, and additional time is necessary and reasonable to
complete such service.



 



   The provisions of this section shall not apply to trailers and
semitrailers regulated by the provisions of Section 80.69.1 of this Code. 
As used in this section, the term “commercial vehicle” shall mean:



 



   (1)   a truck tractor; or



 



   (2)   a motor vehicle with commercial license plate; and



 



   (A)   exceeding 22 feet total length including bumpers, or



 



   (B)   22 feet or less in length with the name of a business
enterprise or establishment or a sign advertising a product or service
painted, attached, or otherwise affixed on or to the exterior thereof.



 



 



SEC. 80.69.3.  PARKING OF COMMERCIAL AND CONSTRUCTION VEHICLES UNDER FREEWAY
OVERPASSES.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 148,582, Eff. 8/18/76.)



 



   No person shall park or leave standing any commercial or construction
vehicle upon any portion of a public street which passes beneath a railroad
overpass, a freeway or any other vehicular overpass if within 150 feet of
either side thereof the majority of the buildings upon property contiguous to
said street are used for residential purposes. The provisions of this section
shall not apply to vehicles leased or owned by any permittee granted a permit
under the provisions of Article 8 of Chapter 13 of Division 22 of the Los
Angeles Administrative Code during the period for which such permit is
granted.



 



 



SEC. 80.69.4.  PARKING OF OVERSIZE VEHICLES.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 182,741, Eff. 11/11/13.)



 



   (a)   No person shall stop, stand or park, when authorized signs are
in place giving notice of the restriction, any oversize vehicle, defined as a
motor vehicle in excess of 22 feet in length or over 84 inches in height,
between 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.  The registered owner of the oversize
vehicle or other person having control of the oversize vehicle shall also be
in violation of this section if he or she has knowledge that the oversize
vehicle had been so parked and the person parking had the express or implied
permission to operate the oversize vehicle.



 



   (b)   Oversize vehicle restricted areas or streets may be
established in either of the following manners:



 



   (1)   The Council may authorize, by resolution, the streets upon
which the parking of oversize vehicles shall be restricted between 2:00 a.m.
and 6:00 a.m., except for those oversize vehicles displaying a valid permit
issued pursuant to the provisions of Subsection (c) of this section.  Upon
Council action designating streets with oversize vehicles parking
restrictions, the Department of Transportation shall cause appropriate signs
to be erected in those streets, indicating the parking limitation prominently
on the sign and stating that motor vehicles with valid permits shall be
exempt from the restrictions.



 



   (2)   A Councilmember representing the district in which fewer than
six street segments are impacted by the unrestricted parking of oversize
vehicles may request the Department of Transportation to investigate and make
a determination whether or not the parking of oversize vehicles on those
street segments between 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. is adversely impacting the
visibility of oncoming traffic, creating constrictions in the traveled way,
or substantially reducing the availability of parking for residents and
businesses.  For the purpose of this section, a street segment consists of
both sides of a street between two adjacent intersecting streets.  To make
this request, the Councilmember shall send a letter to the Department of
Transportation identifying the street segments to be included in the
restricted area, the reasons for the request, and verifying receipt of
petitions showing support for the restriction by a substantial number of
affected community residents.



 



   Upon receiving a written request from a Councilmember pursuant to this
subdivision, the Department of Transportation shall conduct an investigation
to determine whether or not the parking of oversize vehicles between 2:00
a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on the designated street segments is adversely impacting
the visibility of oncoming traffic, creating constrictions in the traveled
way, or substantially reducing the availability of parking for residents and
businesses.  In making its determination, the Department shall consider all
relevant factors, including without limitation, the location of driveways
relative to parked oversize vehicles, the width of oversize vehicles when
compared to other parked vehicles, the existing availability of parking, the
impact the oversize vehicles are having on parking availability for residents
and businesses, the effectiveness of restricting oversize vehicle parking in
alleviating any adverse impact on the visibility of oncoming traffic,
constrictions of the traveled way and reduced parking supply, and whether
signs may be erected on the street segments in a manner that provides
adequate notice of the restriction.  The Department of Transportation shall
report the results of its investigation and determination to the City
Council.  The City Council may, by resolution authorize the street segments
upon which the parking of oversize vehicles shall be restricted between 2:00
a.m. and 6:00 a.m., except for those oversize vehicles displaying a valid
permit issued pursuant to the provisions of Subsection (c) of this section. 
Upon Council action designating street segments with oversize vehicle parking
restrictions, the Department of Transportation shall cause appropriate signs
to be erected in those street segments, indicating the parking limitation
prominently on the sign and stating that motor vehicles with valid permits
shall be exempt from the restrictions.



 



   (c)   Notwithstanding the above, the parking of oversize vehicles,
as defined in Subsection (a) of this section, shall be allowed in areas
established pursuant to the provisions of Subsection (b) of this section,
provided that the oversize vehicle properly displays a valid permit that was
issued in advance by the Department of Transportation.  The permit shall be
issued for a fee of $10.00 per day and for a period not to exceed three
consecutive days.  The use of this permit shall be limited to the purchasing
resident's street segment, or adjacent street segment if authorized by the
Department.  A permit issued pursuant to this subsection shall not guarantee
or reserve to the holder an on-street parking space.



 



 



SEC. 80.70.  PARKING PROHIBITED OR LIMITED IN ANTI-GRIDLOCK ZONES.



   (Added by Ord. No. 177,753, Eff. 9/8/06.)



 



   (a)    Whenever, with reference to any Major Highway or portion of a
Major Highway, the Department determines that traffic demand between 6:00
a.m. and 7:00 p.m. on weekdays requires the use of the curb lane as an
additional, continuous lane for through-traffic in order to avoid gridlock,
it shall be unlawful for any person to park, stand or stop a vehicle in an
Anti-Gridlock Zone, other than for emergency repairs or activities authorized
by the City pursuant to permits issued for these activities, during these
hours and days as are indicated on signs.  The Department of Transportation
shall determine and identify those streets in the City of Los Angeles that
comprise Anti-Gridlock Zones, and shall install and maintain signs giving
notice of the Zone.



 



   (b)   The Department of Transportation is authorized to include
notice, on any sign that prohibits the stopping or parking of vehicles in an
Anti-Gridlock Zone during certain hours and days, that vehicles parked or
left standing in violation of the sign may be removed.



 



   (c)   The provisions of Section 88.01.1 of this chapter are not
applicable to signs erected pursuant to this section.



 



 



SEC. 80.71.3.  PARKING IN FRONT YARDS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 170,903, Eff. 3/16/96.)



 



   No person shall park any vehicle in the front yard of any residential
property.  “Residential property” shall mean any property used for human
habitation and shall include, but not be limited to, any property in the
“A” or “R” Zones of the City.  The front yard shall consist of that
area in the front of the property between the adjacent street and any
building or structure thereon, exclusive of any area used as a driveway to
access a garage or other parking structure.



 



 



SEC. 80.71.4.  PROHIBITION OF PARKING OF VEHICLES WITHOUT PERMISSION ON
PRIVATELY OWNED OR PUBLICLY OWNED PROPERTY.



   (Title Amended by Ord. No. 159,155, Eff. 7/23/84.)



 



   (a)   No person shall park a vehicle on private property or publicly
owned property without the permission, express or implied, of the owner or
person in lawful possession of such property or in a manner different or for
a period of time longer than the permission which was given. No person,
regardless of whether permission has been given by the owner or person in
lawful possession, shall park a vehicle in a fire access road established,
maintained and posted with signs pursuant to the provisions of Los Angeles
Municipal Code Section 57.103.6. (Amended by Ord. No. 163,974, Eff. 10/1/88.)



 



   (b)   No person shall park a vehicle on property owned or operated
by the City and designated or set apart for vehicle parking purposes by
employees of the City without the direct or implied consent of the City or
its authorized agent.



 



   (c)   Any vehicle parked in violation of this section may be removed
to the nearest public garage from the property by the owner or person in
lawful possession thereof if the property is improved with a single family
dwelling, or if vacant or improved with any other type of buildings or used
for other than single family residence purposes if there is displayed on the
property in plain view of a sign, not less than 24 inches by 24 inches in
size which states that public parking is prohibited, indicating that parked
vehicles will be removed at the expense of the owner of the vehicle, and
further containing a telephone number of the Los Angeles Police Department
which may be called by the person parking the vehicle, which number shall be
the same number to which the owner of the property or person in lawful
possession thereof notifies the police department of the intent to remove the
vehicle.  (Amended by Ord. No. 159,155, Eff. 7/23/84.)



 



   (d)   Prior and subsequent to causing the removal of a vehicle on
the authority of Subsection (c) of this section, the person causing the
removal of the vehicle shall comply with all of the notice provisions of
California Vehicle Code Section 22658.  (Added by Ord. No. 159,155, Eff.
7/23/84.)



 



   (e)   The Los Angeles Police Department shall advise owners so
requesting of the phone number where notice shall be given of the intent to
remove a vehicle, which number shall also be placed on the sign.  (Added by
Ord. No. 159,155, Eff. 7/23/84.)



 



   (f)   The provisions of Subsection (c) and (d) hereof shall not
limit the authority of any police officer or firefighter to order the removal
of a vehicle parked in a place where parking is prohibited pursuant to
Section 57.103.6 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code. (Amended by Ord. No.
163,974, Eff. 10/1/88.)



 



 



SEC. 80.72.  PARKING PROHIBITED OR LIMITED ON CERTAIN STREETS ON RED FLAG
ALERT DAYS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 177,215, Eff. 2/8/06.)



 



   (a)   Whenever, with reference to any street or portion of a street
in the City of Los Angeles' Very High Fire Hazard Severity Zone, the Fire
Department determines that parking on one or both sides of the street would
create a hazard to life or property by interfering with emergency vehicle
access and resident evacuation during a major brush fire, the Department of
Transportation is hereby authorized to install and maintain at that place
signs giving notice that no person shall park a vehicle during a Red Flag
Alert in the City of Los Angeles.  The Department of Transportation is
further authorized to include notice, on any sign that prohibits the parking
of vehicles on Red Flag days, that vehicles parked in violation of the sign
may be removed.



 



   (b)   It shall be unlawful, when authorized signs are in place
giving notice, to park any vehicle on any of the streets or portions of
streets in the City's Very High Fire Hazard Severity Zone in violation of the
signs.



 



   (c)   Signs prohibiting parking installed pursuant to this section
are only enforceable on Red Flag Alert days in the City of Los Angeles as
declared by the Mayor or his designee.



 



   (d)   The provisions of Section 88.01.1 of this chapter are not
applicable to signs erected pursuant to this section.



 



 



SEC. 80.72.5.  PARKING PROHIBITED OR LIMITED ON PRIVATE STREETS.



 



   (a)   Whenever the Department shall determine that the stopping or
parking of vehicles on a private street constitutes a hazard to traffic, life
or property, or an obstruction to the adequate access by fire, police,
health, sanitation and public utility vehicles, said Department may install
signs or markings giving notice that no person shall stop or park a vehicle,
except as provided on such signs. (Amended by Ord. No. 134,523, Eff. 7/17/67.)



 



   (b)   As used in this section, the term “private street”
includes “private streets” as defined in Section 18.01 of this code, as
well as those privately owned and maintained easements or roads which are
generally used by the public for vehicular travel.  (Added by Ord. No.
123,587, Eff. 3/1/63.)



 



 



SEC. 80.73.  CATERING TRUCKS.



   (Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 185,278, Eff. 12/7/17.)



 



   (a)   Catering Trucks.  (Amended by Ord. No. 150,561, Eff. 3/19/78.)



 



   1.   Definitions:  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,264, Eff. 6/26/00.) 
For the purposes of this Section, the following definitions shall apply:



 



   A.   “Street” shall mean all that area dedicated to public use
for public street purposes and shall include, but not be limited to,
roadways, parkways, alleys, sidewalks and public ways.



 



   B.   “Catering truck” shall mean any motorized vehicle designed
primarily for dispensing victuals.  For purposes herein, the term
“catering truck” shall include any trailer designed primarily for
dispensing victuals but only if attached to a motor vehicle at all times
during which victuals are being dispensed.  “Catering truck” shall not
include any other trailer or any wagon or pushcart, either propelled or drawn
by motorized or other force, or any other vehicle incidentally used for
dispensing victuals.



 



   C.   “Dispense or dispensing” shall mean peddling, hawking,
displaying for sale, soliciting the sale of, offering or exposing for sale,
selling or giving away.



 



   D.   “Victuals” shall mean fruit, meat, vegetables, beverages or
food of any kind, nutritious or otherwise, dispensed in prepared, packaged or
other form suitable for immediate ingestion or consumption by human beings. 
For purposes herein, victuals shall not include other goods, wares or
merchandise.



 



   E.   "Residential location" shall mean any location on a residential
street as defined in Section 85.06(b) where a catering truck parks for the
purpose of dispensing victuals.  (Added by Ord. No. 185,163, Eff. 10/14/17.)



 



   F.   "Block" shall mean both sides of a street between the nearest
intersecting or intercepting street, dead-end terminus, waterway, railroad
right-of-way, or un-subdivided acreage of a City boundary. (Added by Ord. No.
185,163, Eff. 10/14/17.)



 



   2.   Restrictions:



 



   A.   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,264, Eff. 6/26/00.)  The dispensing
of victuals shall be permitted on any street except at or from:



 



   (1)   Any trailer, wagon or pushcart not included within the
definition of “catering truck”, except as may be authorized under Section
42.00 of this Code.



 



   (2)   (Deleted by Ord. No. 174,284, Eff. 12/8/01.)



 



   (3)   Any location within 100 feet of the nearest part of:



 



   (i)   any intersection, or



 



   (ii)   (Deleted by Ord. No. 174,284, Eff. 12/8/01.)



 



   (4)   Any location within 200 feet of:



 



   (i)   Balboa Park, Banning Park, Robert Burns Park, MacArthur Park,
the following portions of Griffith Park:  Riverside Drive between the
Glendale Boulevard off-ramp and Los Feliz Boulevard, between the Los Angeles
River and the City limits (Betty Davis Picnic Area); and Ferndell Drive
between Los Feliz Boulevard and Red Oak Drive.



 



   (ii)   The roadway of any freeway on-ramp or off-ramp.



   (5)   Any location within 500 feet of the nearest property line of
any school.  In the event of a conflict between any of the above specified
distances and a greater distance otherwise required by law, said greater
distance shall prevail and be controlling.



 



   B.   No person shall stop, stand or park a catering truck upon any
street for the purpose of dispensing victuals under any circumstances in
violation of stopping, standing or parking prohibitions or restrictions
either shown by signs or curb markings or as otherwise provided by the State
Vehicle Code or the health, safety, fire, traffic, business or other
regulations set forth in the Los Angeles Municipal Code.



 



   C.   No person shall dispense victuals from any portion of a
catering truck on any street in any manner which causes any person to stand
in that portion of the street which is between the catering truck and the
center of the street.



 



   D.   Persons who dispense victuals under the provisions of this
section may not do so unless at that time they provide or have available in a
conspicuous place in the immediate vicinity of the catering truck, a litter
receptacle which is clearly marked with a sign requesting its use by patrons.



 



   E.   After dispensing victuals, at any location, a catering truck
operator, prior to leaving the location, shall pick up, remove and dispose of
all trash or refuse which consists of materials originally dispensed from the
catering truck, including any packages or containers, or parts of either,
used with or for dispensing the victuals.



 



   F.   No catering truck shall park at any Residential Location for a
period that exceeds 30 minutes.  No catering truck shall park at any
Residential Location within two blocks of where the catering truck had been
parked at a Residential Location within the previous four hours.  Moving the
catering truck outside the Residential Location during the four-hour period
or not dispensing victuals for some portion of the four-hour period will not
nullify the time or distance requirements set forth in this subsection. 
Failure to comply with the time or distance requirements set forth in this
subsection shall constitute a separate and distinct offense for every
30-minute period that a catering truck remains out of compliance with either
the time or distance requirements, with each subsequent violation subject to
the escalated civil penalties listed in Section 89.60 of this Code. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 185,163, Eff. 10/14/17.)



 



   No catering truck shall remain parked at any commercial location for
the purpose of dispensing victuals, or at any commercial location within a
half mile radius of that location, for a period of time, adding together all
times parked at each commercial location, which exceeds one hour.  Upon the
elapse of that period of time, any catering truck that continues to be used
for the purpose of dispensing victuals must be parked at a location more than
half a mile distant, as measured in a straight line, from the location where
the vehicle was parked at the beginning of the one hour period, and the
vehicle shall not return to that location for at least another 60 minutes
from the time of departure or relocation.



 



   G.   (Added by Ord. No. 173,264, Eff. 6/26/00.)  Notwithstanding
the provisions of Municipal Code Sections 114.04 and 114.05, no person shall
drive or operate a catering truck for the purpose of dispensing victuals
unless such catering truck is equipped with an audible alarm which can be
heard at a distance of 100 feet from the vehicle, which will be automatically
activated in the event the vehicle backs up.  Such alarm must be installed
within six months of the effective date of this regulation.



 



   H.   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,854, Eff. 5/11/01.)  No person shall
lease, sublease or rent a catering truck to any other person knowing that
such person does not possess one or more valid licenses or permits required
by the City or by the County of Los Angeles in order to dispense victuals
from a catering truck. Provided, however, this provision shall not apply to
any license or permit which cannot be secured until the vehicle is in the
possession of the lessee, sublessee or renter.  Notwithstanding the
provisions of Sections 11.00(m), 80.76, 80.76.1 and 80.76.2 of this Code, a
violation of this provision shall be punishable by a civil penalty of $500.00
for the first offense and $1,000.00 for the second and each subsequent
offense.



 



   (b)   (Deleted by Ord. No. 174,284, Eff. 12/8/01.)



 



   (c)   No person shall park or stand any vehicle, or wagon used or
intended to be used in the transportation of property for hire on any street
while awaiting patronage for such vehicle, or wagon without first obtaining a
written permit to do so from the Department which shall designate the
specific location where such vehicle may stand. No permit shall be issued for
any such location within the Central Traffic District.  (Amended by Ord. No.
134,523, Eff. 7/17/67.)



 



   (d)   No person shall stand or park a vehicle upon any street for
the purpose of displaying such vehicle for sale by sign or otherwise. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 134,523, Eff. 7/17/67.)



 



   (e)   Whenever any permit is granted under the provisions of this
section and a particular location to park or stand is specified therein, no
person shall park or stand any vehicle, wagon, or push cart on any location
other than as designated in such permit. In the event that the holder of any
such permit is convicted in any court of competent jurisdiction, for
violating any of the provisions of this section, such permit shall be
forthwith revoked by the Department upon the filing of the record of such
conviction with it, and no permit shall thereafter be issued to such person
until six (6) months have elapsed from the date of such revocation. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 134,523, Eff. 7/17/67.)



 



   (f)   Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 11.00(m) of this
Code, every violation of any of the provisions of this Section which is
punishable as an infraction, shall be punished by a fine of not less than
$100 for the first violation, $200 for the second violation and $250 for each
subsequent violation within one year.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,264, Eff.
6/26/00.)



 



   (g)   Severability.  If any subsection, sentence, clause or phrase
of this section is for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by a
court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity
of the remaining portions of this ordinance.  The City Council hereby
declares that it would have adopted this section, and each and every
subsection, sentence, clause and phrase thereof not declared invalid or
unconstitutional, without regard to whether any portion of the ordinance
would be subsequently declared invalid or unconstitutional.  (Added by Ord.
No. 185,163, Eff. 10/14/17.)



 



 



SEC. 80.73.1.  USE OF STREETS FOR STORAGE OF VEHICLES – PROHIBITED.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 139,370, Eff. 11/29/69.)



 



   (a)   No person who deals in or whose business involves the sale,
rental, leasing, repair, repossession or transportation of new or used
vehicles shall park or leave standing on any one or more streets or alleys
during the conduct of such business any vehicle held for sale, trade, rental,
leasing, repair, repossession, shipment, transportation or other disposition.
(Amended by Ord. No. 163,161, Eff. 2/27/88.)



 



   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person who deals in or whose
business involves the wrecking, junking or dismantling of used vehicles to
park, store, or leave standing on any public street, alley, way or place any
vehicle or part or parts thereof which has been delivered to him or which is
in his possession or custody for wrecking, junking or dismantling.



 



   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave standing
on any public street, alley way or place, any vehicle pending delivery or
during delivery to a person who deals in or whose business involves wrecking,
junking or dismantling of used vehicles, unless the vehicle so parked or left
standing is currently licensed by the Department of Motor Vehicles and is
fully operable.  (Amended by Ord. No. 168,782, Eff. 7/12/93.)



 



   (d)   It shall be unlawful for any person to unload or store on any
public street, alley way or place, any vehicle or part of parts thereof
pending delivery or during delivery to a person who deals in or whose
business involves the wrecking, junking or dismantling of used vehicles,
unless the vehicle so stored or left standing is currently licensed by the
Department of Motor Vehicles and is fully operable.  (Added by Ord. No.
168,782, Eff. 7/12/93.)



 



   (e)   While in the process of enforcing this section, any
enforcement agency shall have the right to demand copies of the report of
vehicles in the custody of any automotive repair site or used sales area as
specified in Section 12.21 I.4. of this Code.  (Added by Ord. No. 176,840,
Eff. 9/4/05.)



 



 



SEC. 80.73.2.  USE OF STREET FOR STORAGE OF VEHICLES – GENERALLY – WHEN
PROHIBITED.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 177,569, Eff. 7/3/06.)



 



   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns or who has possession,
custody or control of any vehicle to park that vehicle or leave it standing
upon any highway, street or alley for 72 or more consecutive hours.



 



 



SEC. 80.73.3.  SELLING, LEASING, RESERVING OR FACILITATING THE RESERVING OF
PUBLIC WAYS – PROHIBITED.



   (Added by Ord. No. 183,475, Eff. 4/19/15.)



 



   No person or entity other than the City of Los Angeles and any of its
departments or designees shall have the authority to sell, lease, reserve or
facilitate the reserving of any street, way, alley, highway, road, parkway,
parking space or other public space in the City of Los Angeles without
written authorization from the City. For purposes of this section, a parking
space is an area not exceeding 22 feet in length that accommodates parking
for one vehicle. Each attempt to sell, lease, reserve or facilitate the
reserving of a parking space, or the completion of the transaction, on any
street, section of a street or other public ways set forth in this section
shall constitute a separate and distinct violation of this section.



 



   (a)   Penalties. Any person violating this section shall be subject
to the following penalties:



 



   1.   First violation. A first violation of this section shall be an
infraction punishable by a fine in the amount of $250.



 



   2.   Second and subsequent violations. A second violation and all
subsequent violations shall be subject to the provisions of Section 11.00 of
the Los Angeles Municipal Code, including prosecution as an infraction
punishable by a fine in the amount of $500, or prosecution as a misdemeanor
punishable by a fine of not more than $1,000 or by imprisonment in the County
Jail for a period of not more than six months, or by both a fine and
imprisonment.



 



   3.   Violations. The following constitutes a violation for purposes
of this section: a conviction for violation of this section, a conviction
under Penal Code Section 853.7 for failure to appear in court to contest a
citation for violations of this section, or a forfeiture of bail.



 



   4.   Each person shall be guilty of a separate offense for each and
every day during any portion of which any violation of this section is
committed, continued or permitted by that person, and shall be punishable
accordingly.



 



   (b)   Severability. If any subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of
this section is for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by a
court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity
of the remaining portions of this ordinance. The City Council hereby declares
that it would have adopted this section, and each and every subsection,
sentence, clause and phrase thereof not declared invalid or unconstitutional,
without regard to whether any portion of the ordinance would be subsequently
declared invalid or unconstitutional.



 



 



SEC. 80.74.  WASHING VEHICLES IN STREET.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 168,782, Eff. 7/12/93.)



 



   (a)   No person shall dust, wipe, wash or otherwise clean, or use or
employ any method of dusting, wiping, washing or otherwise cleaning, any
vehicle or portion thereof while on any street unless such vehicle is owned
by or under the direct control or supervision of the person doing any of the
acts herein enumerated.



 



   (b)   No person shall park a vehicle on any street for the purpose
of dusting, wiping, washing or otherwise cleaning such vehicle or portion
thereof unless it is owned by or under the direct control or supervision of
such person.



 



 



SEC. 80.75.  SALE OF VEHICLES OR BICYCLES – WHERE PROHIBITED.



   (Repealed by Ord. No. 173,945, Eff. 6/18/01.)



 



 



SEC. 80.75.1.  PARKING WITH AUDIBLE STATUS INDICATOR OPERATIVE.



   (Added by Ord. No. 169,785, Eff. 6/9/94.)



 



   No person shall park a vehicle on any street or upon any public or
private property which while so parked emits sound from an audible status
indicator.  As used in this section, an audible status indicator is a
component of a vehicle theft alarm system which emits a chirp, voice message
or other sound audible outside the vehicle for a duration of more than one
minute for the purpose of warning an approaching person that a vehicle theft
alarm system is installed and armed or operational.  The time period shall
be calculated from the point in time of the emission of the first audible
sound used in calculation and shall end one minute thereafter, not
withstanding any variation or temporary stoppage in the emission of audible
sound.



 



   In the event enforcement of a violation occurs under this section, no
enforcement action shall be taken under Section 114.07 of the Municipal Code
for the same violation.



 



 



SEC. 80.75.3.  PARKING AUTOMOBILES ON STREETS EXCEEDING GRADE OF 3%.



 



   (a)   The Department is hereby authorized to determine those streets
in the City of Los Angeles which have a grade exceeding three per cent and
upon which a hazardous condition would be created unless unattended motor
vehicles were parked by blocking the wheels of said vehicles by turning them
against the curb, or by other means. When such determination has been made,
the Department is hereby authorized and directed to cause appropriate signs
to be posted and maintained on such streets.  (Amended by Ord. No. 134,523,
Eff. 7/17/67.)



 



   (b)   When signs are erected in places giving notice thereof, no
person driving, or in control of, a motor vehicle shall permit it to stand on
any street or highway unattended when upon any grade exceeding three per cent
(3%) within any business or residence district without blocking the wheels of
said vehicle by turning them against the curb, or by other means.



 



 



SEC. 80.75.4.  EMERGENCY RULES AND SIGNS.



 



   (a)   Authority of Commissioners.  The Commissioners are hereby
authorized to adopt rules regulating parking or other use of vehicles upon
the streets and other public ways of travel whenever they deem it necessary
to meet an emergency not expressly provided for under any other provisions of
this chapter; provided, however, that in any such case, the resolution
adopting any such rule shall be published once in a newspaper of general
circulation in this city and shall thereupon become effective; and provided
further that no rule so adopted shall remain in force longer than thirty days
unless incorporated into an ordinance.



 



   (b)   Emergency Signs – Installation Authorized.  The
Commissioners are hereby authorized to install such signs as they may deem
necessary to give notice of the effect of any such emergency rule at any
particular occasion.



 



   (c)   Violation Prohibited.  It shall be a misdemeanor, punishable
as elsewhere provided in this chapter, for any person to operate, park, or
otherwise use any vehicle in violation of any emergency rule adopted and
published by the Commissioners pursuant to the authority granted by this
section, or in violation of the instructions of any sign installed hereunder.



 



 



 



DIVISION “O”
PENALTIES AND EFFECT OF CHAPTER



 



 



Section



80.76   Penalties.



80.76.1   Infractions.



80.76.2   Civil Penalties.



80.77   Removal of Parked Cars.



80.77.1   Vehicle Release Fee.



80.77.2   Booting Fee.



80.77.3   Receipt by City Clerk of Proceeds of Sale of Forfeited Vehicles
Under State Vehicle Code Section 14607.6.



80.77.4   Official Police Garages.



 



 



SEC. 80.76.  PENALTIES.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 169,518, Eff. 4/11/94.)



 



   (a)   It is unlawful for any person to do any act forbidden or fail
to perform any act required by this chapter.



 



   (b)   Except as provided elsewhere, any person violating any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof shall be punished as follows:



 



   1.   For the first offense by a fine of not to exceed Fifty Dollars
($50), or by imprisonment in the City Jail for a period not exceeding five
(5) days,



 



   2.   For a second violation within a period of one year by a fine of
not to exceed One Hundred Dollars ($100), or by imprisonment in the City Jail
for a period not exceeding ten (10) days, or by both such fine and
imprisonment, and



 



   3.   For a third and each additional offense committed within one
year by a fine of not exceeding Five Hundred Dollars ($500), or by
imprisonment in the City Jail for a period not to exceed six (6) months, or
by both such fine and imprisonment.



 



   (c)   Notwithstanding Section 11.00(m) of this Code, where any
person in violation of Section 88.11, 88.61 or 89.35.6 of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code defaces, injures, tampers with, opens or willfully breaks,
destroys or impairs the usefulness of any parking meter, the  fine imposed
upon conviction shall be no less than $50.00 for the first offense, no less
than $100.00 for the second offense and no less than $300.00 for the third
and each additional offense committed within one year of the date of
commission of the first offense.  The first and second violation of Section
88.11, 88.61 or 89.35.6 shall be deemed an infraction.  The third and
subsequent violation of these sections shall be deemed a misdemeanor.



 



 



SEC. 80.76.1.  INFRACTIONS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 168,782, Eff. 7/12/93.)



 



   Notwithstanding Section 80.76 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code,
violation of any of the sections or subsections of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code described herein shall be an infraction:



 



SECTION      DESCRIPTION



 




80.73(b)2A(1)      VENDING FROM NON-CATERING TRUCK VEHICLES (Amended by
Ord. No. 173,264, Eff. 6/26/00.)




80.73(b)(2),C,D,E    CATERING TRUCKS, CLEANUP OF AREA



80.73.1(d)      USE OF STREETS FOR STORAGE



80.75         SALE OF VEHICLE



86.06(a)      DRIVING-SIGNS POSTED PROHIBITING



87.09(g)      COMPLIANCE WITH ORDERS



87.09(l)      PAYMENT OF PARKING FEE



88.10         PARKING METERS NOT TO BE USED



88.12         EXTENDING PARKING TIME



88.60         OFF-STREET PARKING METERS NOT TO BE USED



88.62         EXTENDING PARKING TIME



89.35.4         IMMEDIATE DEPOSIT OF COINS



89.35.5(c)      DEPOSITING COINS TO EXTEND TIME



89.40(c)      REMOVAL OF CAR WITHOUT PAYING FEES



 



 



SEC. 80.76.2.  CIVIL PENALTIES.



   (Added by Ord. No. 168,782, Eff. 7/12/93.)



 



   Notwithstanding Section 80.76 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code,
violation of any of the sections or subsections of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code described herein shall be punishable by civil penalty:



 



SECTION      DESCRIPTION



 



80.25         PARKING NEAR OR FOLLOWING EMERGENCY VEH.



80.49         WRONG SIDE/NOT PARALLEL-OVER 18” FROM CURB



80.51(a)      PARKING ON LEFT SIDE OF ROADWAY



80.53         PARKING WITHIN A PARKWAY



80.54(h)1      OVERNIGHT PARKING WITHOUT PERMIT  (Added by Ord. No.
178,794, Eff. 6/21/07.)



80.55(a)1      HAZARDOUS AREA



80.55(a)2      30 FEET OF INTERSECTION - BUSINESS DISTRICT



80.55(a)3      25 FEET CROSSWALK



80.55(a)4      ANY POLICE STATION



80.55.1         STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING WITHIN 15 FEET OF A
DRIVEWAY USED BY EMERGENCY VEHICLES  (Added by Ord. No. 186,219, Eff.
8/12/19.)



80.56(e)1      PASSENGER ZONE (WHITE)



80.56(e)2      LOADING ZONE (YELLOW)



80.56(e)3      SHORT TIME LIMIT ZONE (GREEN)



80.56(e)4      NO STOPPING ZONE (RED)



80.58(k)1      PREFERENTIAL PARKING



80.58.1         CARSHARE PARKING  (Added by Ord. No. 180,602*, Eff.
4/24/09.)



80.58.2         SPECIAL EVENT VEHICLE PARKING  (Added by Ord. No.
183,135, Eff. 7/8/14.)



80.61         ALLEY - STANDING IN



80.66.1(d)      RESTRICTED ZONES



80.69(a)      STOPPING OR STANDING PROHIBITED



80.69(b)      PARKING PROHIBITED



80.69(c)      PARKING TIME LIMITS



80.69(d)      PARKING OF VEHICLES MORE THAN SIX FEET HIGH



80.69.1(a)      PRKG TRAILER - VEHICLE CAPABLE OF TOWING



80.69.1(c)      PARKING UNHITCHED TRAILER  (Added by Ord. No. 177,086,
Eff. 12/11/05.)



80.69.2         COMM. VEHICLES AND TRAILERS IN RES. DIST.



80.69.3         PARKING UNDER FREEWAY OVERPASSES



80.69.4         PARKING OF OVERSIZE VEHICLES (Added by Ord. No.
177,876, Eff. 10/6/06.)



80.70         PARKING IN ANTI-GRIDLOCK ZONE  (Added by Ord. No.
177,753, Eff. 9/8/06.)



80.71.3         PARKING IN FRONT YARDS  (Added by Ord. No. 170,903,
Eff. 3/16/96.)



80.71.4         PARKING WITHOUT PERMISSION



80.72         PARKING ON RED FLAG DAY (Added by Ord. No. 177,215,
Eff. 2/8/06.)



80.72.5         PARKING ON PRIVATE  STREET (Amended by Ord. No.
180,876, Eff. 10/23/09.)



80.73(a)      PARKING OF CATERING TRUCKS



80.73(b)(2)(f)      CATERING VIOLATION - TIME LIMITS



80.73(b)2,A(2)(3)



(4)(5)         DISTANCE LIMITATIONS (Amended by Ord. No. 173,264,
Eff. 6/26/00.)



80.73(b),2,F      TIME RESTRICTIONS



80.73(c)      LUNCH WAGONS, CENTRAL AREA OF CITY



80.73(d)      “FOR HIRE” WITHOUT PERMIT



80.73(e)      “FOR SALE”



80.73(f)      VIOLATING PROVISIONS OF PERMIT TO PARK



80.73.1(a)(b)(c)   STORING VEHICLES IN THE STREET



80.73.2         MORE THAN 72 HOURS ON STREET OR ALLEY



80.74(b)      CLEANING VEHICLE IN STREET




80.75.1         PARKING WITH AUDIBLE STATUS INDICATOR OPERATIVE 
(Added by Ord. No. 169,785, Eff. 6/9/94.)




80.75.3         PARKING WHERE GRADE EXCEEDS 3%



85.01(b)      REPAIRING VEHICLE IN STREET



86.03         STANDING OR PARKING OF VEHICLES IN PARKS



86.06(b)      NO PARKING OTHER THAN POSTED AREAS



87.02         PARKING NEAR FIRE HYDRANT



87.03         PARALLEL PARKING REQUIRED



87.04         PARKING TIME PROHIBITED



87.05         PARKING PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN ROADWAYS



87.06         PARKING PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS



87.09(a)(b)(c)



(d)(e)(h)(k)      PARKING PROHIBITED IN HARBOR DISTRICT



87.11         PARKING BY RECREATIONAL VEHICLES



87.54         ADVERTISING PROHIBITED OTHER PARKED VEH.



88.03(a)      PARKING OUTSIDE SPACE INDICATED



88.13(a)      METERS - FAILURE TO DEPOSIT COIN



88.13(b)      OVERTIME USE OF METER SPACE



88.53         OFF-ST. PARKING OUTSIDE SPACE INDICATED



88.63(a)      OFF-STREET FAILURE TO DEPOSIT COINS



88.64         FAILURE TO OBEY OFF-STREET PARKING SIGNS



88.66         ELECTRIC CHARGING STATION SPACES  (Added by Ord. No.
185,744, Eff. 10/15/18.)



89.35.1         PARKING METER SPACES



89.35.5(a)      FAILURE TO IMMED. DEPOSIT COIN IN METER



89.35.5(b)      FAILURE TO REMOVE VEH. WHEN METER EXPIRES



89.36         NO STOPPING - RED CURB



89.37         PARKING AT GREEN CURB



89.38         PARKING AT YELLOW CURB



89.39         PARKING AT WHITE CURB



89.39.1(a)      STOPPING OR STANDING PROHIBITED



89.39.1(b)      PARKING PROHIBITED



89.39.1(c)      PARKING TIME LIMITS



89.39.2         PRKG RESTRICTED TO HOTEL-MOTEL VEHICLES



89.40(a)      PARKING WITHIN MARKERS



89.40(b)      USING MORE THAN ONE SPACE



89.42         PARALLEL PRKG - RIGHT WHEELS 18” FROM CURB



89.43         PARKING IN CROSSWALK



89.44(c)      VIOLATION OF EMERGENCY RULES OR SIGNS



89.45         PARKING OF “FOR HIRE” VEHICLES



89.46         PARKING RESTRICTED TO “FOR HIRE VEHICLES”



87.09(a)      WITHIN 6 FEET OF RAILROAD TRACK



87.09(b)      NO PARKING OR STANDING - POSTED AREAS



87.09(c)      EXCESS OF TIME LIMIT



87.09(d)      LOADING ZONES



87.09(e)      TEMPORARY NO PARKING



87.09(h)      PARKING IN MORE THAN ONE ALLOCATED SPACE



87.09(k)      PARKING OTHER THAN BETWEEN PAINTED LINES



87.11         RECREATION VEHICLE OVERNIGHT



 



* Note:  This ordinance shall remain in effect until midnight on December
31, 2010, and is repealed thereafter.



 



 



SEC. 80.77.  REMOVAL OF PARKED CARS.



   (Amended by Ord. No 151,833, Eff. 2/10/79, Oper. 2/25/79.)



 



   (a)   Police Officers and civilian employees of the Department of
Transportation designated as Traffic Officers for purposes of this section
are hereby authorized to remove from highways, streets or alleys within the
City of Los Angeles to the nearest garage or other place of safety designated
or maintained by the Police Department, any vehicle which has been parked or
left standing on such highway, street or alley for 72 or more consecutive
hours.



 



   (b)   Whenever a Police Officer or Traffic Officer removes a vehicle
from a street or highway as authorized in this section and the officer knows
or is able to ascertain from the registration records in the vehicle or from
the registration records of the California Department of Motor Vehicles the
name and address of the owner thereof, such Police Officer or Traffic Officer
shall immediately give or cause to be given notice in writing to such owner
of the fact of such removal, the grounds thereof and of the place to which
such vehicle has been removed. In the event any such vehicle is stored in a
public garage, a copy of such notice shall be given to the proprietor of such
garage.



 



   (c)   Whenever a Police Officer or Traffic Officer removing a
vehicle from a street or highway under this section does not know and is not
able to ascertain the name of the owner or for any other reason is unable to
give the notice to the owner as hereinbefore provided, and in the event the
vehicle is not returned to the owner within a period of 120 hours, then and
in that event the Police Officer or Traffic Officer shall immediately send or
cause to be sent written report of such removal by mail to the Department of
Motor Vehicles at Sacramento and shall file a copy of such notice with the
proprietor of any public garage in which the vehicle may be stored. Such
report shall be made on a form furnished by such department and shall include
a complete description of the vehicle the date, time and place from which
removed, the grounds for such removal and the name of the garage or place
where the vehicle is stored.



 



   (d)   Police Officers and Traffic Officers are hereby authorized to
remove from streets or highways within the City of Los Angeles to the nearest
garage or other place of safety, or to a garage or other place of safety
designated or maintained by the Police Department, any vehicle which has been
parked or left standing in violation of an official sign prohibiting the
stopping or parking of vehicles and giving notice that such vehicle may be
removed.



 



   (e)   Whenever a vehicle is removed from the streets of the City and
stored as authorized by Subsection (d) above, or is stored as permitted and
provided for in California Vehicle Code Section 22852, the provisions for a
post–storage hearing as set forth in said Vehicle Code section shall be
implemented. (Added by Ord. No. 164,041, Eff. 10/21/88.)



 



 



SEC. 80.77.1.  VEHICLE RELEASE FEE.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,301, Eff. 6/30/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)



 



   (a)     Every person who redeems a vehicle or pocket bike from an
Official Police Garage that was impounded at the direction of any City of Los
Angeles Police or Traffic Officer for a violation of any provision of state
or local law shall pay a fee of $115.00 per vehicle or pocket bike to
reimburse the City for costs related to the impound.  (Amended by Ord. No.
181,312, Eff. 10/25/10.)



 



   (b)   The fee imposed by this section shall be paid to the operator
of the Official Police Garage at the same time the towing and storage charges
are paid. The fee imposed herein constitutes a debt owed to the City which is
extinguished by payment to the operator.



 



   (c)   Each operator of an Official Police Garage shall collect the
fee imposed by this section at the same time the towing and storage charges
are collected.



 



   (d)   Each operator shall, on the 15th day and last day of each
calendar month, make a statement to the Office of Finance, on forms provided
by the Office of Finance, of the total amount of fees imposed by this section
collected for said period.  At the time the statement is filed, the full
amount of said fees collected shall be remitted to the Office of Finance. 
However, the statement and remittance are due immediately upon the cessation
of business by an operator for any reason.  All fees collected by each
operator pursuant to this section shall be held in trust for the account of
the City until remittance thereof is made to the Office of Finance. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 181,698, Eff. 6/18/11.)



 



   (e)   Any fees imposed by that section which are not collected by an
operator or that are collected by an operator and not remitted to the Office
of Finance within 15 days of the applicable dates set forth in Subsection (d)
hereof are delinquent.  A penalty for delinquency in the remittance of fees
shall be paid by the operator to the Office of Finance in the amount of 25
percent of the amount of the delinquent fees.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,698,
Eff. 6/18/11.)



 



   (f)   It shall be the duty of each operator liable for the
collection and remittance to the City of fees imposed by this section to keep
and preserve for a period of four years all records as may be necessary to
determine the amount of said fees for which said operator may have been
liable for the collection and remittance to the City, which records the
Office of Finance shall have the right to inspect at all reasonable times.



 



   (g)   Any fees imposed by this section which are not collected by an
operator or which are collected by an operator and not remitted to the Office
of Finance shall be deemed a debt owed by the operator to the City. Any
operator who fails to collect any fees imposed by this section or who fails
to remit to the Office of Finance any fees collected under this section shall
be liable in an action brought in the name of the City for the recovery of
the amount of such fees.



 



 



SEC. 80.77.2.  BOOTING FEE.



   (Added by Ord. No. 162,112, Eff. 3/31/87.)



 



   (a)   Subject to the provisions of Subsection (b), where a vehicle
is immobilized pursuant to Vehicle Code Section 22651.7 or any other Code
section which authorized similar immobilization, and the owner or person in
control of the vehicle has been issued five or more notices of parking
violations that are delinquent, such owner or person in control of the
vehicle shall be required to pay the Department a charge of $150.00 for the
cost of the immobilization.  (Amended by Ord. No. 180,060, Eff. 8/30/08.)



 



   (b)   The charge imposed by Subsection (a) above shall not be
applicable to a vehicle which, prior to release to the owner, has been so
immobilized and subsequently towed to an impound garage.



 



   (c)   Upon immobilization of such vehicle the person effecting such
immobilization shall cause to be placed on such vehicle, in a conspicuous
manner, notice sufficient to warn any individual that such vehicle has been
immobilized and any attempt to move such vehicle might result in damage to
such vehicle. Said notice shall also state that there is a right to a
post-immobilization hearing to determine the validity of such immobilization,
and any booting, towing or storage charges. Such hearing shall be conducted
by a hearing officer appointed to conduct such hearings. This
post-immobilization hearing will not be determinative of or adjudicate any
citation issued relative or any immobilized vehicle. The hearing shall be
conducted within 48 hours of the request, excluding weekends and holidays.
Failure of either the registered or legal owner, or his or her agent, to
request or to attend a scheduled hearing shall satisfy the
post-immobilization validity hearing requirement of this subsection.



 



   (d)   The immobilizing device or, mechanism shall remain in place
for 72 hours unless the owner has complied with Section 22651.7 of the
Vehicle Code or as a result of a hearing held pursuant to Subsection (c) of
this section it is determined that the device or mechanism should be removed.
If the immobilization occurs when a vehicle is parked in a tow-away zone or
restricted parking area; or in a location so as to be blocking or impeding
traffic, then such vehicle is subject to immediate towing and impounding.
Booting, towing and storage fees, subject to the determination of the hearing
officer, pursuant to Subsection (c) of this section and applicable Vehicle
Code sections, that such fees are not required, shall be paid before the
owner of such vehicle, or authorized person, shall be permitted to repossess
or secure the release of the vehicle.



 



   (e)   Once a vehicle has been immobilized pursuant to Vehicle Code
Section 22651.7 or any other similar provision of law which authorizes
immobilization, no one, other than such persons who are authorized by law to
do so, shall mobilize any such vehicle.



 



   (f)   No one, other than a person authorized by law to immobilize a
vehicle pursuant to Vehicle Code Section 22651.7 or other similar provision
of law, shall, once a vehicle has been so immobilized, cause any such vehicle
to be towed from the location where immobilized. If any such vehicle is so
towed both the person requesting the towing service and the operator of the
towing vehicle shall be in violation of this section.



 



   (g)   Any violation of either Subsections (e) and (f) shall
constitute a misdemeanor.



 



   (h)   If a vehicle has been immobilized by means of a self-releasing
boot (boot) for unpaid parking fines and penalties as provided in Subsection
(a), the motorist may be allowed to remove the boot immediately upon payment
of all outstanding fines and penalties due the City.  The motorist shall pay
the balance of all unpaid parking fines, along with the boot fee, prior to
receiving a code to unlock the boot.  The motorist may contact the
Department for assistance or to have the immobilization device removed. 
(Added by Ord. No. 185,756, Eff. 10/14/18.)



 



   After receipt of the code to unlock the boot, if the motorist removes
the boot, the motorist shall have 48 hours (excluding weekends and holidays)
to return the boot to an office location designated by the Department.  If
the boot has not been returned within 48 hours, the Department may assess the
vehicle owner a fine of $25 per day, up to a maximum fine of $500.  The
Department shall assess a repair or replacement cost up to $500 if the
motorist returns the self-releasing boot in a damaged or unserviceable
condition.  (Added by Ord. No. 185,756, Eff. 10/14/18.)



 



 



SEC. 80.77.3.  RECEIPT BY CITY CLERK OF PROCEEDS OF SALE OF FORFEITED
VEHICLES UNDER STATE VEHICLE CODE SECTION 14607.6.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,301, Eff. 6/30/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)



 



   (a)   On the 15th day and last day of each calendar month, each
Official Police Garage Operator, hereinafter "operator", who engages in the
sale or sales of forfeited vehicles pursuant to Vehicle Code Section 14607.6
shall make a report to the Office of Finance, on forms provided by the Los
Angeles Police Department, of the total amount of moneys due and owing to the
City pursuant to Vehicle Code section 14607.6 for said period.  The full
amount of moneys due and owing to the City shall be remitted to the Office of
Finance at the time the report is filed.  However, the report and remittance
are due immediately upon the cessation of business by an operator for any
reason.  All moneys due and owing to the City pursuant to this section shall
be held in trust for the account of the City until remittance thereof is made
to the Office of Finance.  Moneys due and owing to the City under this
section that are not remitted to the Office of Finance within 15 days of the
applicable dates set forth are delinquent.  A penalty for delinquency in the
remittance of moneys shall be paid by the operator to the Office of Finance
in the amount of the 25 percent of the amount of delinquent moneys. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 181,698, Eff. 6/18/11.)



 



   (b)   Legal owners who engage in the sale of forfeited vehicles
pursuant to Vehicle Code Section 14607.6 shall transmit moneys due and owing
the City of Los Angeles to the Los Angeles Police Department for deposit into
the City’s General Fund.



 



   (c)   Moneys received by the Office of Finance from the sale of
forfeited vehicles pursuant to Vehicle Code Section 14607.6 shall be
deposited in the General Fund.



 



   (d)   The Los Angeles Police Department is authorized and
responsible for investigating and auditing as necessary the files and records
of each person selling forfeited vehicles and for taking any action necessary
to assure that the City of Los Angeles receives all moneys required to be
transmitted to it pursuant to Vehicle Code Section 14607.6.



 



   (e)   Any person who fails to remit to the City of Los Angeles
moneys required to be remitted under this section shall be liable in an
action brought in the name of the City for the recovery of the amount of such
moneys.



 



 



SEC. 80.77.4.  OFFICIAL POLICE GARAGES.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,397, Eff. 8/13/00.)



 



   A.   Definitions.  As used in this section “Board” shall mean
the Board of Police Commissioners.  “Official Police Garage” shall mean
a towing and garage business selected by the City to remove and store
vehicles at the direction of any Police Officer or Traffic Officer employed
by the City of Los Angeles including officers of the Port Police, Airport
Police and Housing Authority Police.



 



   B.   Selection Process for Official Police Garages.



 



   1.   The Board of Police Commissioners shall, subject to the
approval of the City Council, enter into contracts, awarded for a fixed term
of five years, with Official Police Garages for 18 Official Police Garage
service areas of the City and for such heavy duty towing services as may, in
the judgment of the Board, be necessary.  The geographic boundaries of the
18 Official Police Garage service areas shall be those depicted on the maps
on file with the City Clerk in Council File 08-0418.  (Amended by Ord. No.
181,143, Eff. 6/1/10.)



 



   2.   Said contracts shall be issued only after utilizing the
City’s standardized bid and contract procedures.  Each request for
proposals issued pursuant to this section shall be approved by resolution of
the City Council.  The evaluation of each proposal made pursuant to the
provisions of this Section shall include an evaluation of the past
performance of any proposer which has in the past operated as an Official
Police Garage.



 



   3.   Each contract awarded pursuant to this section shall provide
for towing and storage fees which shall be uniform throughout the City. 
Said fees shall be determined by the Board which shall consider as a factor
the Los Angeles County Transportation Index.  Said fees shall be effective
for a calendar year.



 



   4.   The bid and contract procedures shall be implemented
successively commencing with the geographic area which has had a designated
Official Police Garage for the longest period and concluding with the area
which has had a designated Official Police Garage for the shortest period. 
The heavy duty towing contracts shall be awarded in a like manner.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 174,792, Eff. 10/6/02.)



 



   5.   Each contract awarded pursuant to this section shall provide
for an option to renew the contract for an additional five year period
subject to approval by the City Council. This provision shall not apply to
any interim contract awarded pursuant to Subsection C of this section.



 



   6.   (Repealed by Ord. No. 181,143, Eff. 6/1/10.)



 



   C.   Interim Contracts for Official Police Garage Services.



 



   1.   The Board shall enter into written contracts with those
individuals or corporations which were doing business as Official Police
Garages for the City on February 28, 1996.  Said contracts shall be for
terms which shall expire upon the award of the contracts described in
Subsection “B” above.



 



   2.   Any transfer of ownership of an Official Police Garage contract
entered into under provisions of this subsection shall not be made absent
approval of the City Council.



 



   D.   Gross Receipts Fee.  Each Official Police Garage shall pay to
the general fund of the City a fee equal to seven percent (7%) of all
revenues generated as a result of its activities as an Official Police
Garage, including but not limited to revenues generated from the towing and
storage of vehicles and the sales of lien vehicles.  Each operator of an
Official Police Garage shall, on the 15th day and last day of each calendar
month, make a statement to the Office of Finance, on forms provided by the
Office of Finance, of the total amount of fees imposed by this section.  At
the time the statement is filed, the full amount of said fees shall be
remitted to the Office of Finance.  However, the statement and remittance
are due immediately upon the cessation of business by an operator for any
reason.  All fees owed by each operator pursuant to this section shall be
held in trust for the account of the City until remittance thereof is made to
the Office of Finance.  Fees imposed by this section that are not remitted
to the Office of Finance within 15 days of the applicable dates set forth are
delinquent.  A penalty for delinquency in the remittance of fees shall be
paid by the operator to the Office of Finance in the amount of 25 percent of
the amount of the delinquent fees.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,698, Eff.
6/18/11.)



 



   E.   Miscellaneous Provisions.



 



   1.   Contracts awarded pursuant to this section may be awarded to
individuals, partnerships, closely held corporations or public corporations.



 



   2.   Any sale or transfer of a majority of either the ownership
interest or stock except public share stocks, of any Official Police Garage
shall be subject to the approval of the City Council which shall consider any
recommendation of the Board.



 



   3.   No individual, partnership, closely held corporation or public
corporation shall be awarded more than two contracts to operate as an
Official Police Garage at any given time.



 



   4.   Each Official Police Garage shall maintain its primary storage
facility within the City.



 



   5.   No owner of an Official Police Garage shall have a controlling
ownership interest in any automobile dismantling or wrecking yard, automobile
body or repair shop, used car business or any other automobile related
business other than an automobile towing and related garage business.



 



   6.   Each Official Police Garage shall obtain a permit pursuant to
Los Angeles Municipal Code Section 103.204 and shall be subject to the
provisions of Chapter X, Article 3, Division 3 of this Code.



 



 



 



DIVISION “P”
SCHEDULES OF DESIGNATED STREETS REFERRED TO IN CHAPTER



 



 



Section



80.81   Speed Zone Schedules.



 



 



SEC. 80.81.  SPEED ZONE SCHEDULES.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 185,922, Eff. 1/27/19.)



 



   (1)   30 M.P.H. Prima Facie Speed Limit.  Upon the streets
designated in this subsection, a prima facie speed limit of 30 miles per hour
is hereby declared to be reasonable, safe, and more appropriate to facilitate
the orderly movement of traffic.



 




A




 



Abbot Kinney Boulevard between Washington Boulevard and Main Street.



Adlon Road between Empress Avenue and Hayvenhurst Avenue.



Airdrome Street between Venice Boulevard and Robertson Boulevard.



Aldea Avenue between Lassen Street and Superior Street.



Allenford Avenue between 26th Street and Sunset Boulevard.



Alma Street between 27th Street and 37th Street.



Alonzo Avenue between Medley Drive and Valley Vista Boulevard.



Alvarado Street between the Hollywood Freeway (101) and Hoover Street.



Amestoy Avenue between Killion Street and Ventura Boulevard.



Apperson Street between Haines Canyon Avenue and Newhome Avenue.



Apollo Drive between Hercules Drive and Willow Glen Road.



Arleta Avenue between Brand Boulevard and Fox Street.



Avalon Boulevard between 700 feet south of Broad Avenue and Denni Street.



Avalon Boulevard between Manchester Avenue and Imperial Highway.



Avenue 19 between North Broadway and Lacy Street.



Avenue 20 between North Broadway and North Main Street.



Avenue 26 between Pasadena Avenue and San Fernando Road.



Avenue 28 between Cypress Avenue and Figueroa Street.



Avenue 36 between Eagle Rock Boulevard and Fletcher Drive.



Avenue 51 between Eaton Street and York Boulevard.



Avenue 52 between Figueroa Street and Griffin Avenue.



Avenue 54 between Monte Vista Street and York Boulevard.



Avenue 57 between Figueroa Street and the Pasadena Freeway (110).



Avenue 64 between Meridian Street and the Pasadena Freeway (110).



 




B




 



Baden Avenue between Lassen Street and Plummer Street.



Balboa Avenue between Rancho Street and Ventura Boulevard.



Ballina Canyon Road between Ballina Drive and Westfall Drive.



Barrington Avenue between Olympic Boulevard and Saltair Avenue.



Bassett Street between Noble Avenue and Sepulveda Boulevard.



Beachy Avenue between Filmore Street and Wentworth Street.



Beachwood Drive between Franklin Avenue and Westshire Drive.



Beacon Street between 3rd Street and Harbor Boulevard.



Beacon Street between 7th Street and Crescent Street.



Beethoven Street between Rose Avenue and the City Limit south of Zanja Street.



Beethoven Street between the City Limit north of Ida Avenue and Maxella
Avenue.



Bellaire Avenue between Coldwater Canyon Avenue and Magnolia Boulevard.



Benedict Canyon Drive between Mulholland Drive and 1500 feet north of Liebe
Drive.



Benton Way between Beverly Boulevard and Sunset Boulevard.



Beverly Glen Boulevard between 250 feet south of Ruthven Lane and Sunset
Boulevard.



Beverwil Drive between City limits north of Rodeo Drive and Sawyer Street.



Bixel Street between Miramar Street and 8th Street.



Blinn Avenue between Opp Street and Pacific Coast Highway.



Braddock Drive between Sawtelle Boulevard and Culver Boulevard.



Bradford Place between Bambi Place and Signature Drive.



Bradley Avenue between Hubbard Street and Bledsoe Street.



Branford Street between San Fernando Road and Glenoaks Boulevard.



Brunswick Avenue between Glendale Boulevard and Goodwin Avenue.



Buckingham Road between Adams Boulevard and West Boulevard.



Budlong Avenue between Adams Boulevard and Jefferson Boulevard.



Bundy Drive between Norman Place and Wilshire Boulevard.



 




C




 



Cahuenga Boulevard between Franklin Avenue and Melrose Avenue.



Calneva Drive between Hayvenhurst Avenue and Mulholland Drive.



Canoga Avenue between Ventura Boulevard and Villena Avenue.



Cantara Street between Coldwater Canyon Avenue and Woodman Avenue.



Canyon Drive between Franklin Avenue and terminus north of Carolus Drive.



Capri Drive between Sunset Boulevard and Casale Road.



Carrillo Drive between Olympic Boulevard and San Vicente Boulevard.



Castle Heights Avenue between Beverwil Drive (north intersection) and
National Boulevard.



Center Street between Ramirez Street and Banning Street.



Cesar E. Chavez Avenue between Bridge Street and Indiana Street.



Channel Street between Pacific Avenue and Park Western Drive.



Chase Street between Topanga Canyon Boulevard and 150 feet west of Sale
Avenue.



Chase Street between Vanalden Avenue and De Soto Avenue.



Chimineas Avenue between Eddleston Drive and Rinaldi Street.



Clark Street between De Soto Avenue and Winnetka Avenue.



Cliffwood Avenue between San Vicente Boulevard and Sunset Boulevard.



Club View Drive between Comstock Avenue and Santa Monica Boulevard.



Cochran Avenue between Wilshire Boulevard and Venice Boulevard.



Cohasset Street between Platt Avenue and Woodlake Avenue.



Coil Avenue between Blinn Avenue and Pacific Coast Highway.



Coldwater Canyon Avenue between Hacienda Drive and Mulholland Drive.



Coldwater Canyon Drive between Mulholland Drive and Gloaming Drive.



Coliseum Street between Obama Boulevard and Hauser Boulevard.



Compton Avenue between 41st Street and Slauson Avenue.



Comstock Avenue between Beverly Glen Boulevard and Wilshire Boulevard.



Coralmount Drive between Western Avenue and Park Western Drive.



Corbin Avenue between Rosita Street and Wells Drive.



Covello Street between Hazeltine Avenue and Van Nuys Boulevard.



Crescent Heights Boulevard between Guthrie Avenue and Olympic Boulevard.



Culver Boulevard between Nicholson Street and Pacific Avenue.



Cypress Avenue between Figueroa Street and Verdugo Road.



 




D




 



Daly Street between Avenue 26 and North Broadway.



Darnoch Way between Highlander Road and Pomelo Drive.



Delay Drive between Fletcher Drive and San Fernando Road.



Delevan Drive between Delevan Place and York Boulevard.



Delevan Place between Delevan Drive and Trent Way.



Division Street between El Paso Drive and San Fernando Road.



Dixie Canyon Avenue between Moorpark Street and Valley Vista Boulevard.



Doheny Drive between the terminus north of Swallow Drive and the City Limit
south of Shoreham Drive.



Dronfield Avenue between Osborne Street and the south City limits of the City
of San Fernando.



 




E




 



El Paso Drive between Avenue 50 and Eagle Rock Boulevard.



Elmhurst Drive between Haines Canyon Avenue and Tujunga Canyon Boulevard.



Encino Avenue between Killion Street and Ventura Boulevard.



Entrada Drive between Pacific Coast Highway and the City Limit near Adelaide
Drive.



Erwin Street between Shoup Avenue and Topanga Canyon Boulevard.



Erwin Street between White Oak Avenue and Wilbur Avenue.



Escalon Drive between Encino Hills Drive and Hayvenhurst Avenue.



Ethel Avenue between Chandler Boulevard and Victory Boulevard.



Etiwanda Avenue between Vincennes Street and Vintage Street.



Eton Avenue between Nordhoff Street and Parthenia Street.



8th Street between Fairfax Avenue and La Brea Avenue.



8th Street between Irolo Street and Lucerne Boulevard.



18th Street between Spaulding Avenue and La Cienega Boulevard.



80th Street between Sepulveda Boulevard and Campion Drive.



83rd Street between Sepulveda Boulevard and Hastings Avenue.



83rd Street between Vermont Avenue and Van Ness Avenue.



89th Street between Western Avenue and Van Ness Avenue.



 




F




 



Farralone Avenue between Andora Avenue and Plummer Street.



Farralone Avenue between Lassen Street and Plummer Street.



Farralone Avenue between Roscoe Boulevard and Sherman Way.



Federal Avenue between Olympic Boulevard and Wilshire Boulevard.



Figueroa Street between 5th Street and Pico Boulevard.



Figueroa Street between Pico Boulevard and Martin Luther King, Jr. Boulevard.



Filmore Street between Beachy Avenue and Woodman Avenue.



Firmament Avenue between Sherman Way and Vanowen Street.



Fletcher Drive between Avenue 36 and San Fernando Road.



Flora Avenue between Lincoln Park Avenue and Sierra Street.



Forman Avenue between Camarillo Street and Moorpark Street.



Fountain Avenue between Sunset Boulevard and Western Avenue.



Fountain Avenue between Highland Avenue and La Brea Avenue.



Fox Street between Chatsworth Street and Laurel Canyon Boulevard.



Franklin Avenue between Commonwealth Avenue and Normandie Avenue.



1st Street between Indiana Street and Alameda Street.



1st Street between Harbor Boulevard and Meyler Street.



1st Street between the City Limit east of Hanford Avenue and the City Limit
east of Miraleste Drive.



4th Street between Western Avenue and La Brea Avenue.



54th Street between Central Avenue and Western Avenue.



54th Street between Western Avenue and Crenshaw Boulevard.



 




G




 



Gayley Avenue between Le Conte Avenue and Veteran Avenue.



Gower Street between Franklin Avenue and Melrose Avenue.



Grand Boulevard between Main Street and Venice Boulevard.



Greenbriar Drive between Gleneagles Drive and Vanalden Avenue.



Griffin Avenue between Mission Road and Montecito Drive.



 




H




 



Haskell Avenue between Hartsook Street and Ventura Boulevard.



Hatteras Street between Hazeltine Avenue and Sepulveda Boulevard.



Hauser Boulevard between Pico Boulevard and 6th Street.



Hayvenhurst Avenue between Ventura Boulevard and Calneva Drive.



Highland Avenue between Olympic Boulevard and Wilshire Boulevard.



Hilgard Avenue between Le Conte Avenue and Sunset Boulevard.



Hill Street between Bernard Street and Ord Street.



Hill Street between Olympic Boulevard and Martin Luther King, Jr. Boulevard.



Hillhurst Avenue between Los Feliz Boulevard and Hollywood Boulevard.



Hillrose Street between Sherman Grove Avenue and Pinyon Avenue.



Hillsboro Avenue between Robertson Boulevard and Monte Mar Drive.



Hollywood Boulevard between La Brea Avenue and Laurel Canyon Boulevard.



Hooper Avenue between Slauson Avenue and Washington Boulevard.



Hoover Street between Manchester Avenue and El Segundo Boulevard.



Hoover Street between Santa Monica Boulevard and Temple Street.



Hyde Park Boulevard between West Boulevard and Wilton Place.



 




I




 



Idaho Avenue between Centinela Avenue and Bundy Drive.



Indiana Street between Cesar E. Chavez Avenue and Union Pacific Avenue.



Inglewood Boulevard between Venice Boulevard and the City Limits of Culver
City north of Washington Boulevard.



Inglewood Boulevard between National Boulevard and Rose Avenue.



 




J




 



Johanna Avenue between La Canada Way and Sunland Boulevard.



Jolette Avenue between Garris Avenue and Balboa Boulevard.



Justice Street between March Avenue and Woodlake Avenue.



 




K




 



Kelvin Avenue between Ventura Boulevard and Wells Drive.



Kenter Avenue between Bundy Drive and Homewood Road (north intersection).



Kentwood Avenue between Riggs Place and Manchester Avenue.



Kittridge Street between White Oak Avenue and Reseda Boulevard.



Kittridge Street between Valley Circle Boulevard and the City Limit at Julie
Lane.



 




L




 



La Brea Avenue between the City limit at Romaine Street and Olympic Boulevard.



La Brea Avenue between Franklin Avenue and the City Limit north of Fountain
Avenue.



La Tijera Boulevard between the City Limit north of 63rd Street and the City
Limit south of 64th Street.



Lachman Lane between Luna Vista Drive and Jacon Way.



Lanai Road between Hayvenhurst Avenue and Hayvenhurst Drive.



Lanark Street between Hollywood Way and Wheatland Avenue.



Lanark Street between Woodman Avenue and Hazeltine Avenue.



Larchmont Boulevard between 3rd Street and Beverly Boulevard.



Laurel Canyon Boulevard between Hubbard Street and Chatsworth Drive.



Laurel Pass between Mulholland Drive and Wonderland Avenue.



Lennox Avenue between Sherman Way and Vanowen Street.



Libbit Avenue between Magnolia Boulevard and Ventura Boulevard.



Lincoln Park Avenue between Flora Avenue and Mission Road.



Lindley Avenue between Halsted Street and Lassen Street.



Louise Avenue between Raymer Street and Nordhoff Street and between Luverne
Place and Ventura Boulevard.



Louise Avenue between the terminus north of Rushing Drive and Rinaldi Street.



Lurline Avenue between Chatsworth Street and Prairie Street.



 




M




 



Main Street between Pico Boulevard and the City Limit south of 120th Street.



Mandeville Canyon Road between Sunset Boulevard and Sky Valley Road.



Manning Avenue between Pico Boulevard and National Boulevard.



Maple Avenue between Pico Boulevard and Woodlawn Avenue.



March Avenue between Justice Street and Roscoe Boulevard.



March Avenue between Stagg Street and Platt Avenue.



Marengo Street between the City Limit east of Evergreen Avenue and Soto
Street.



McCarthy Vista between Wilshire Boulevard and San Vicente Boulevard.



Melvin Avenue between Chatsworth Street and Devonshire Street.



Mercury Avenue between Huntington Drive North and Sierra Street.



Mildred Avenue between Ocean Avenue and Washington Boulevard.



Military Avenue between Exposition Boulevard and National Boulevard.



Mindanao Way between Alla Road and Lincoln Boulevard.



Montana Avenue between Church Lane and Veteran Avenue.



On those sections of Montana Avenue within the City of Los Angeles between
Barrington Avenue and the City Limit at Stanford Street.



Monte Mar Drive between Robertson Boulevard and Beverly Drive.



Motor Avenue between Manning Avenue and the City Limit south of Venice
Boulevard.



Motor Avenue between Pico Boulevard and Manning Avenue.



Mt. Gleason Avenue between Big Tujunga Canyon Road and Foothill Boulevard.



Mulholland Drive between Cahuenga Boulevard West and Longbow Drive.



Mulholland Drive between Calneva Drive and Encino Hills Drive.



 




N




 



Napoli Drive between Amalfi Drive and Sunset Boulevard.



Nicada Drive between Beverly Glen Boulevard and Mulholland Drive.



Nichols Canyon Road between Willow Glen Road and Hollywood Boulevard.



Nogales Drive between Caladero Street and Rosita Street.



Nordhoff Place between Corbin Avenue and Oakdale Avenue.



Normandie Avenue between Franklin Avenue and Wilshire Boulevard.



Normandie Avenue between Olympic Boulevard and Pico Boulevard.



North Broadway between Avenue 21 and Johnston Street.



19th Street between Crescent Avenue and Western Avenue.



92nd Street between Central Avenue and Vermont Avenue.



92nd Street between Croesus Avenue and Success Avenue.



96th Street between Airport Boulevard and Sepulveda Boulevard.



98th Street between Bellanca Avenue and Sepulveda Boulevard.



 




O




 



Oakdale Avenue between Nordhoff Place and Plummer Street.



Ohio Avenue between Barrington Avenue and Westwood Boulevard.



Ohio Avenue between Santa Monica Boulevard and Centinela Avenue.



Olive Street between its intersections with Hill Street and Olympic Boulevard.



Orion Avenue between Victory Boulevard and Sherman Way.



Oro Vista Avenue between Big Tujunga Canyon Road and Foothill Boulevard.



Osage Avenue between La Tijera Boulevard and Manchester Avenue.



Osborne Street between the City Limit north of Garrick Avenue and Foothill
Boulevard.



Osborne Street between Woodman Avenue and Van Nuys Boulevard.



Oso Avenue between Saticoy Street and Sherman Way.



Overland Avenue between Palms Boulevard and the City Limit near Washington
Boulevard.



Owensmouth Avenue between Chatsworth Street and Lassen Street.



Owensmouth Avenue between Roscoe Boulevard and Parthenia Street.



Oxnard Street between Fallbrook Avenue and Platt Avenue.



103rd Street between the City Limit east of Weigand Avenue and Avalon
Boulevard.



120th Street between Avalon Boulevard and Vermont Avenue.



120th Street between Central Avenue and Avalon Boulevard.



104th Street between Western Avenue and Gramercy Place.



108th Street, westbound, between Western Avenue and Gramercy Place.



182nd Street between Figueroa Street and Vermont Avenue.



182nd Street between Normandie Avenue and Western Avenue.



186th Street between Western Avenue and Vermont Avenue.



 




P




 



Pacific Avenue between 17th Street and 22nd Street.



Pacific Avenue between the City Limit near Marine Court and Via Marina.



Palms Boulevard between Lincoln Boulevard and Penmar Avenue.



Park Western Drive between Western Avenue and Channel Street.



Parthenia Place between Parthenia Street and Sepulveda Boulevard.



Peoria Street between Roscoe Boulevard and Lankershim Boulevard.



Petit Avenue between Bosque Drive and Magnolia Boulevard.



Pico Boulevard between Main Street and Figueroa Street.



Plummer Street between Lindley Avenue and Reseda Boulevard.



Polk Street between San Fernando Road and Laurel Canyon Boulevard.



Pomelo Drive from March Avenue to 600 feet south of Darnoch Way.



Prairie street between De Soto Avenue and Shirley Avenue.



 




R




 



Ramirez Street between Vignes Street and Center Street.



Rancho Street between Balboa Avenue and Louise Avenue.



Rayen Street between Reseda Boulevard and Wilbur Avenue.



Raymer Street between Keswick Street and Sepulveda Boulevard.



Rimpau Boulevard between Pico Boulevard and Wilshire Boulevard.



Rimpau Boulevard between Third Street and Wilshire Boulevard.



Rosewood Avenue between Vermont Avenue and Normandie Avenue.



Rosita Street between Corbin Avenue and Vanalden Avenue.



Rosita Street between Reseda Boulevard and Vanalden Avenue.



Royal Hills Drive between Sepulveda Boulevard and Caribeth Street.



 




S




 



San Feliciano Drive between Avenue San Luis and Mulholland Drive.



San Jose Street between Balboa Boulevard and Zelzah Avenue.



San Pascual Avenue between the City Limit at San Ramon Drive and York
Boulevard.



San Vicente Boulevard between Wilshire Boulevard and Gretna Green Way.



San Ysidro Drive between the Beverly Hills City Limit and Summitridge Drive.



Santa Fe Avenue between Banning Street and 7th Street.



Santa Fe Avenue between 7th Street and 25th Street.



Sawtelle Boulevard between Ohio Avenue and Olympic Boulevard.



Sawtelle Boulevard between Olympic Boulevard and Pico Boulevard.



Sayre Street between the City Limit east of Shablow Avenue and Glenoaks
Boulevard.



Schuyler Road between the terminus north of Lloydcrest Drive and the City
Limit south of Cerrocrest Drive.



Serrania Avenue between Dumetz Road and Ventura Boulevard.



Short Avenue between Centinela Avenue and Alla Road.



Sierra Street between Fiora Avenue and Mercury Avenue.



Simshaw Avenue between Hubbard Street and Gridley Street.



Solano Avenue between Jarvis Street and Academy Road.



Southwest Drive between 8th Avenue and Van Ness Avenue.



St. Estaban Street between Commerce Avenue and Tujunga Canyon Boulevard.



Stanmoor Drive between Manchester Avenue and La Tijera Boulevard.



Stansbury Avenue between Valley Vista Boulevard and Ventura Boulevard.



State Street between Marengo Street and Cesar E. Chavez Avenue.



Stonehurst Avenue between Sunland Boulevard and Wentworth Street.



Stone Canyon Avenue between Jadestone Drive and Valley Vista Boulevard.



Stone Canyon Road between Chalon Road and Sunset Boulevard.



Summerland Avenue between Gaffey Street and Western Avenue.



Summitrose Street between Fairgrove Avenue and Mt. Gleason Avenue.



Sunland Boulevard between Vineland Avenue and Nettleton Street.



Sunset Boulevard between Virgil Avenue and Crescent Heights Boulevard.



6th Street between Fairfax Avenue and San Vicente Boulevard.



7th Avenue between California Avenue and Rose Avenue.



7th Street between Figueroa Street and Vermont Avenue.



74th Street between La Tijera Boulevard and Sepulveda Boulevard.



76th Street between Flight Avenue and Sepulveda Boulevard.



79th Street between Sepulveda Boulevard and La Tijera Boulevard.



 




T




 



Tampa Avenue between Ventura Boulevard and Wells Drive.



Terra Bella Street between Eldridge Avenue and Foothill Boulevard.



Thornburn Street between La Tijera Boulevard and La Cienega Boulevard.



Thurman Avenue between Venice Boulevard and Washington Boulevard.



Tujunga Canyon Boulevard between La Tuna Canyon and Wentworth Street.



Tulsa Street between De Soto Avenue and Lurline Avenue.



Tunney Avenue between Lassen Street and Devonshire Street.



23rd Street between Figueroa Street and Hoover Street.



30th Street between Trinity Street and Figueroa Street.



39th Street between Buckingham Road and Vermont Avenue.



228th Street between Normandie Avenue and Western Avenue.



 




U




 



Union Pacific Avenue between Grande Vista Avenue and Indiana Street.



 




V




 



Valerio Street between Sepulveda Boulevard and Woodman Avenue.



Valley Vista Boulevard between Ethel Avenue/Ventura Boulevard and Sepulveda
Boulevard.



Van Ness Avenue between 76th Street and Slauson Avenue.



Van Ness Avenue between Harold Way and 3rd Street.



Van Nuys Boulevard between Riverside Drive and Valley Vista Boulevard.



Vanalden Avenue between Devonshire Street and Nordhoff Street.



Vanalden Avenue between Kittridge Street and the terminus north of Parthenia
Street.



Vanalden Avenue between Wilbur Avenue and Devonshire Street.



Variel Avenue between Bassett Street and Roscoe Boulevard.



Vaughn Street between Foothill Boulevard and Glenoaks Boulevard.



Venice Way between Pacific Avenue and Venice Boulevard.



Ventura Canyon Avenue between Saticoy Street and Woodman Avenue.



Vermont Avenue between Hollywood Boulevard and Olympic Boulevard.



Vernon Avenue between Alameda Street and the City Limit west of Crenshaw
Boulevard.



Veteran Avenue between Pico Boulevard and Wilshire Boulevard.



Via Dolce between Washington Boulevard and the City Limit west of Marquesas
Way.



Vose Street between Sepulveda Boulevard and Kester Avenue.



 




W




 



Wawona Street between Trent Way and Palmar Drive.



Wells Drive between Avenida Hacienda and Dumetz Road.



Wentworth Street between Sharp Avenue and Ventura Canyon Avenue.



Wentworth Street between Sherman Grove Avenue and Tujunga Canyon Boulevard.



West Boulevard between Buckingham Road and Pico Boulevard.



West Boulevard between Florence Avenue and Slauson Avenue.



West Channel Road between Ocean Avenue and Pacific Coast Highway.



Westfall Drive between Caribeth Drive and Oldham Street.



Westwood Boulevard between Pico Boulevard and Santa Monica Boulevard.



Wheatland Avenue between Sunland Boulevard and Wentworth Street.



White Oak Avenue between Ventura Boulevard and White Oak Place.



Wilbur Avenue between Nordhoff Street and Rayen Street.



Wiley Post Avenue between Airlane Avenue and La Tijera Boulevard.



Will Rogers Street between Westchester Parkway and Airlane Avenue.



Willoughby Avenue between Vine Street and those portions of Willoughby Avenue
within the City of Los Angeles west to Gardner Street.



Wilton Place between Olympic Boulevard and Washington Boulevard.



Winnetka Avenue between Ventura Boulevard and the terminus 680 feet south of
Phaeton Drive.



Woodcliff Road between Valley Vista Boulevard and Mulholland Drive.



Woodlake Avenue between Ventura Boulevard and Victory Boulevard.



Woodland Avenue between Maple Avenue and Martin Luther King, Jr. Boulevard.



 




Y




 



Yolanda Avenue between Lassen Street and Nordhoff Street.



York Boulevard between the Glendale Freeway (2) and the Glendale City Limit.



York Boulevard between the City Limit east of San Pascual Avenue and Eagle
Rock Boulevard.



 




Z




 



Zanja Street between Lincoln Boulevard and City Limit east of Meier Street.



Zelzah Avenue between Rinaldi Street and the north limits of the City of Los
Angeles.



 



   (2)   35 M.P.H. Prima Facie Speed Limit.  Upon the streets
designated in this subsection, a prima facie speed limit of 35 miles per hour
is hereby declared to be reasonable, safe and more appropriate to facilitate
the orderly movement of traffic.



 




A




 



Academy Road between the Pasadena Freeway (110) and west boundary of Elysian
Park (at Morton Place).



Adams Boulevard between Compton Avenue and Fairfax Avenue.



Airport Boulevard between La Tijera Boulevard and Century Boulevard.



Alameda Street between Spring Street and 25th Street.



Alhambra Avenue between the City Limit east of Lowell Avenue and Valley
Boulevard.



Alla Road between Maxella Avenue and the Marina Freeway (90).



Allesandro Street between Riverside Drive and Glendale Boulevard.



Alondra Boulevard between Figueroa Street and Vermont Avenue.



Anaheim Street between Henry Ford Avenue and Figueroa Place.



Anaheim Street between Vermont Avenue and Western Avenue.



Arbor Vitae Street between Airport Boulevard and the City Line east of
Bellanca Avenue.



Arleta Avenue between Fox Street and Devonshire Street.



Arlington Avenue between 54th Street and Olympic Boulevard.



Arroyo Drive between the City Limit at Arroyo Verde Street and Marmion Way.



Avalon Boulevard between the City Limit north of 246th Street and the north
line of Denni Street.



Avalon Boulevard between Imperial Highway and the City Limit south of 120th
Street.



Avalon Boulevard between Jefferson Boulevard and Manchester Avenue.



Avenue of the Stars between Pico Boulevard and Santa Monica Boulevard.



Avenue San Luis between Mulholland Drive and Shoup Avenue.



Avenue 19 between Lacy Street and San Fernando Road.



Avenue 50 between Figueroa Street and York Boulevard.



Avenue 60 between the City Limit east of Hellman Avenue and Figueroa Street.



Avenue 66 between York Boulevard and Meridian Street.



Avenue 64 between Meridian Street and the City limit north of Rosswood
Terrace.



 




B




 



Balboa Boulevard between Burbank Boulevard and Ventura Boulevard.



Barham Boulevard between Cahuenga Boulevard and the City boundary line of the
City of Burbank.



Barrington Avenue between Federal Avenue - Indianapolis Street and Olympic
Boulevard.



Bellanca Avenue between Arbor Vitae Street and Manchester Avenue.



Belle Porte Avenue between the south line of Lomita Boulevard and the
northeasterly line of Anaheim Street.



Benedict Canyon Drive between 1500 feet north of Liebe Drive and the City
limits south of Delresto Drive.



Beverly Boulevard between the City Limit west of La Cienega Boulevard and
Glendale Boulevard.



Beverly Glen Boulevard between Mulholland Drive and 250 feet south of Ruthven
Lane.



Beverly Glen Boulevard between Pico Boulevard and Olympic Boulevard.



Beverly Glen Boulevard between Sunset Boulevard and Pico Boulevard.



Beverly Glen Boulevard between Ventura Boulevard and Sumac Drive.



Bledsoe Street between Foothill Boulevard and San Fernando Road.



Bradley Avenue between Penrose Street and Tujunga Avenue.



Bradley Avenue between Roxford Street and the City limit south of Aztec
Street.



Branford Street between the southwesterly line of San Fernando Road and the
east line of Woodman Avenue.



Broad Avenue between the south line of Lomita Boulevard and the easterly line
of Avalon Boulevard.



Broadway between Colorado Boulevard and the Glendale City Limits.



Broadway between Manchester Avenue and Pico Boulevard.



Broadway Place between 36th Place and 40th Place.



Bundy Drive between Wilshire Boulevard and Ocean Park Boulevard.



Burbank Boulevard between 1,000 feet east of McLennan Avenue and Ventura
Boulevard.



Burbank Boulevard between De Soto Avenue and the City limit west of Valerie
Avenue.



Burton Way from La Cienega Boulevard to the City limits near Doheny Drive,
north roadway, and to Robertson Boulevard, south roadway.



 




C




 



Cahuenga Boulevard between Cahuenga Terrace and Franklin Avenue and between
Lankershim Boulevard and Victory Boulevard.



Cahuenga Boulevard West between Highland Avenue and Oakcrest Drive.



Cahuenga Boulevard West between Lankershim Boulevard and Oakcrest Drive.



Califa Street between De Soto Avenue and Topanga Canyon Boulevard.



Camarillo Street between the west line of Clybourn Avenue and the east line
of Tujunga Avenue.



Canoga Avenue between Candice Place and Lassen Street.



Canoga Avenue between Roscoe Boulevard and Ventura Boulevard.



Capitol Drive between Gaffey Street and Meyler Street.



Capitol Drive between Meyler Street and Western Avenue.



Carson Street between Normandie Avenue and Western Avenue.



Centinela Avenue between Culver Drive and the City limit northwest of Stewart
Avenue.



Centinela Avenue between Santa Monica Boulevard and Ocean Park Boulevard.



Centinela Avenue between Washington Place and Palms Boulevard.



Central Avenue between Olympic Boulevard and Florence Avenue.



Century Boulevard between Anzac Avenue and the City Limit west of Success
Avenue



Century Boulevard between Central Avenue and Vermont Avenue.



Century Boulevard between Halldale Avenue and Van Ness Avenue



Century Boulevard between La Cienega Boulevard and Sepulveda Boulevard.



Century Park East between Olympic Boulevard and Santa Monica Boulevard.



Century Park West between Olympic Boulevard and Santa Monica Boulevard.



Cesar E. Chavez Avenue between North Broadway and Figueroa Street.



Cesar E. Chavez Avenue between North Spring Street and Bridge Street.



Chandler Boulevard between Clybourn Avenue and Vineland Avenue.



Chase Street between Haskell Avenue and Hayvenhurst Avenue.



Chase Street between Woodman Avenue and Van Nuys Boulevard.



Chatsworth Street between Balboa Boulevard and Wilbur Avenue.



Chatsworth Street between Santa Susana Avenue and the terminus east of Mason
Avenue.



Chautauqua Boulevard between Sunset Boulevard and Pacific Coast Highway.



Chavez Ravine Road between Adobe Street and Scott Avenue.



Church Lane between Ovada Place and Waterford Street.



On those portions of Clybourn Avenue within the City of Los Angeles between
Cohasset Street and Sherman Place.



On those portions of Clybourn Avenue within the City of Los Angeles between
Victory Boulevard and Burbank Boulevard.



Coast Boulevard between Century Boulevard and Imperial Highway.



Coldwater Canyon Avenue between Hacienda Drive and Roscoe Boulevard.



Coldwater Canyon Drive from Gloaming Drive to the north City limits of the
City of Beverly Hills.



Colfax Avenue between Victory Boulevard and Moorpark Street.



Collis Avenue between Huntington Drive and the City Limits north of Coleman
Avenue.



Colorado Boulevard between Eagle Rock Boulevard and Figueroa Street.



Colorado Boulevard between Figueroa Street and the east City limits of the
City of Los Angeles.



Colorado Boulevard between the west City limits of the City of Los Angeles
and Eagle Rock Boulevard.



Compton Avenue between Imperial Highway and 92nd Street.



Constellation Boulevard between Century Park East and Century Park West.



Crenshaw Boulevard between 79th Street and Wilshire Boulevard.



Crescent Heights Boulevard between the City limit north of Romaine Street and
Wilshire Boulevard.



Crescent Heights Boulevard between Selma Avenue and the City limit south of
Sunset Boulevard.



Culver Boulevard between Nicholson Street and 1,000 feet east of Nicholson
Street.



 




D




 



“D” Street between McFarland Avenue and Broad Avenue.



Daly Street between North Broadway and Mission Road.



Deep Canyon Drive between Mulholland Drive and Hutton Drive.



Devonshire Street between Topanga Canyon Boulevard and the terminus west of
Larwin Avenue.



Dumetz Road between Serrania Avenue and Topanga Canyon Boulevard.



 




E




 



Eagle Rock Boulevard between Colorado Boulevard and Fletcher Drive.



Eagle Rock Boulevard between San Fernando Road and Fletcher Drive.



Eastern Avenue between Valley Boulevard and Huntington Drive South.



El Segundo Boulevard between Figueroa Street and Vermont Avenue.



Eldridge Avenue between Harding Street and Polk Street.



Empyrean Way between Avenue of the Stars and Century Park East.



Erwin Street between DeSoto Avenue and Topanga Canyon Boulevard.



Eubank Avenue between Lomita Boulevard and Pacific Coast Highway.



Exposition Boulevard between La Brea Avenue and Flower Street.



8th Street between Figueroa Street and Irolo Street.



8th Street between Olympic Boulevard and Soto Street.



18th Street between La Cienega Boulevard and Robertson Boulevard.



83rd Street between La Tijera Boulevard and Sepulveda Boulevard.



88th Street between Sepulveda Westway and Liberator Avenue.



 




F




 



Fairfax Avenue between the City limits north of Fountain Avenue and Hollywood
Boulevard.



Fairfax Avenue between Pico Boulevard and Venice Boulevard.



Fairfax Avenue between Pico Boulevard and Willoughby Avenue.



Fairfax Avenue between Venice Boulevard and La Cienega Boulevard.



Fallbrook Avenue between Roscoe Boulevard and the terminus north of Eccles
Street.



Falmouth Avenue between Cabora Drive and 92nd Street.



Figueroa Place between Pacific Coast Highway and Anaheim Street.



Figueroa Street between Harry Bridges Boulevard and Mauretania Street.



Figueroa Street between Colorado Boulevard and San Fernando Road.



Figueroa Street between Colorado Boulevard and Scholl Canyon Road.



Figueroa Street between El Segundo Boulevard and Manchester Avenue.



Figueroa Street between 5th Street and Alpine Street.



Figueroa Street between Martin Luther King, Jr. Boulevard and Manchester
Avenue.



Fletcher Drive between San Fernando Road and Glendale Boulevard.



Florence Avenue between West Boulevard and Central Avenue.



Flower Street between Figueroa Street and Pico Boulevard.



Fountain Avenue between Hyperion Avenue and Sunset Boulevard.



On those portions of Frampton Avenue within the City of Los Angeles between
240th Street and Lomita Boulevard.



Franklin Avenue between Western Avenue and Normandie Avenue.



Franklin Avenue between Highland Avenue and La Brea Avenue.



Franklin Avenue between Cahuenga Boulevard and Western Avenue.



Fries Avenue between Anaheim Street and 800 feet south of “A” Street.



Front Street between Pacific Avenue and Harbor Boulevard.



Fulton Avenue between Raymer Street and Ventura Boulevard.



1st Street between Glendale Boulevard and Flower Street.



4th Street between Indiana Street Alameda Street.



4th Street between Olive Street and Beaudry Street.



48th Street between Normandie Avenue and the City Limit west of Crenshaw
Boulevard.



54th Street between Crenshaw Boulevard and the City limit west of Hillcrest
Drive.



 




G




 



Gaffey Street between Summerland Avenue and Paseo Del Mar.



Gage Avenue between Central Avenue and Van Ness Avenue.



Galaxy Way between Avenue of the Stars and Century Park East.



Gateway Boulevard between Pico Boulevard and Ocean Park Boulevard.



Gavina Avenue between Hubbard Street and Los Angeles County Line.



Gladstone Avenue between Maclay Street and Polk Street.



Glendale Boulevard between Beverly Boulevard and Alvarado Street.



Glendale Boulevard between the City Limit north of Seneca Avenue and the
Glendale Freeway (2).



Glenoaks Boulevard between the City Limit north of Brownell Street and Van
Nuys Boulevard.



Glenoaks Boulevard between Van Nuys Boulevard and Osborne Street.



Grand Avenue between 39th Street and Olympic Boulevard.



Grand View Boulevard between Palms Boulevard and Venice Boulevard.



Grande Vista Avenue between Olympic Boulevard and the City Limit at
Washington Boulevard.



Griffin Avenue between Avenue 52 and Montecito Drive.



Griffith Park Boulevard between Sunset Boulevard and Los Feliz Boulevard.



 




H




 



Harbor Boulevard between Front Street and the terminus of Harbor Boulevard at
the extension of 16th Street.



Haskell Avenue between Chase Street and Roscoe Boulevard.



Hauser Boulevard between Pico Boulevard and Washington Boulevard.



Hazeltine Avenue between Ventura Boulevard and Covello Street.



Highland Avenue between Cahuenga Boulevard West and Santa Monica Boulevard.



Highland Avenue between Santa Monica Boulevard and Wilshire Boulevard.



Highlander Road between Platt Avenue and Valley Circle Boulevard.



Hill Street between Ord Street and Temple Street.



Hollywood Boulevard between Gower Street and Sunset Boulevard.



Honolulu Avenue between the Glendale City limit and La Tuna Canyon Road.



Hoover Street between Martin Luther King, Jr. Boulevard and Manchester Avenue.



Hoover Street between Exposition Boulevard and Wilshire Boulevard.



Howard Hughes Parkway between Sepulveda Boulevard and the San Diego Freeway
(405).



Huntington Drive (North Roadway) and Huntington Drive (South Roadway) between
Eastern Avenue / El Sereno Avenue and Soto Street.



Huntington Drive North and Huntington Drive South between Van Horne Avenue
and Eastern Avenue / El Sereno Avenue.



Huntington Drive South between Eastern Avenue and Huntington Drive.



Hyperion Avenue between Fountain Avenue and the extension of Ferncroft Road.



 




I




 



Imperial Highway between San Pedro Street and Vermont Avenue.



Inglewood Boulevard between the City Limit south of Washington Boulevard and
Jefferson Boulevard.



 




J




 



Jefferson Boulevard between the City Limit at the San Diego Freeway (405)
northbound On-Ramp and Inglewood Boulevard.



Jefferson Boulevard between La Cienega Boulevard and Central Avenue.



Jefferson Boulevard between Central Avenue and the City limit at Holdrege
Avenue.



 




K




 



Kester Avenue between Saticoy Street and Ventura Boulevard.



 




L




 



La Brea Avenue between Olympic Boulevard and Coliseum Street.



On those sections of La Cienega Boulevard within the City of Los Angeles
between the City limits at Romaine Street and Bowcroft Street.



La Tuna Canyon Road between Glenoaks Boulevard and Ledge Avenue.



Lankershim Boulevard between San Fernando Road and Ventura Boulevard.



Larchmont Boulevard between Beverly Boulevard and Melrose Avenue.



Lassen Street between Topanga Canyon Boulevard and Valley Circle Boulevard.



Laurel Canyon Boulevard between Mount Olympus Drive and Selma Avenue.



Laurel Canyon Boulevard between Riverside Drive and Mulholland Drive.



Leimert Boulevard between Vernon Avenue and Martin Luther King, Jr. Boulevard.



Lomita Boulevard between the City Limit west of Western Avenue and the City
Limit east of Frampton Avenue.



Long Beach Avenue between Slauson Avenue and Washington Boulevard.



Lorena Street between Grande Vista Avenue and Cesar E. Chavez Avenue.



Los Feliz Boulevard between the City Limit east of Seneca Avenue and Western
Avenue.



Louise Avenue between Oxnard Street and Ventura Boulevard.



Louise Avenue between Rinaldi Street and Nordhoff Street.



 




M




 



Maclay Street between Foothill Boulevard and the terminus east of Fenton
Avenue.



Magnolia Boulevard between Balboa Boulevard and Hayvenhurst Avenue.



Magnolia Boulevard between Clybourn Avenue and Sepulveda Boulevard.



Main Street, Venice, between the City limits of the City of Santa Monica near
Navy Street and Windward Avenue.



Main Street between Alameda Street and Mission Road.



Manchester Avenue between Lincoln Boulevard and Pershing Drive.



Manchester Avenue between Van Ness Avenue and Central Avenue.



Marengo Street between Mission Road and Soto Street.



Marilla Street between the east line of Topanga Canyon Boulevard and the
easterly line of Owensmouth Avenue.



Marmion Way between Figueroa Street and Monte Vista Street.



Marmion Way between Arroyo Drive and Avenue 64.



Martin Luther King, Jr. Boulevard between Central Avenue and Leimert
Boulevard.



Marylee Street between Owensmouth Avenue and Topanga Canyon Boulevard.



McLaughlin Avenue between Federal Avenue-Indianapolis Street and the City



Limit south of Washington Place.



Melrose Avenue between Orlando Street and Vermont Avenue.



Mission Road between 1st Street and Soto Street.



Monterey Road from Huntington Drive North to the City Limit east of Lomitas
Drive.



Moorpark Street between Moorpark Way and Van Nuys Boulevard.



Moorpark Way between Moorpark Street and Riverside Drive.



Mulholland Drive between Mulholland Place and Calneva Drive.



Myra Avenue between Fountain Avenue and Hoover Street.



 




N




 



National Boulevard between the City Limit south of Venice Boulevard and Bundy
Drive.



National Place between Overland Avenue and Malcolm Avenue.



Nordhoff Street between Osborne Street and Haskell Avenue.



Normandie Avenue between the City Limit north of 178th Street and 190th
Street.



Normandie Avenue between Pico Boulevard and Manchester Avenue.



Normandie Avenue between the City Limit adjacent to Lomita Boulevard and
Pacific Coast Highway.



On those portions of Normandie Avenue within the City of Los Angeles between
Manchester Avenue and Century Boulevard.



North Broadway between College Street and Avenue 21.



North Broadway between Johnston Street and Mission Road.



North Spring Street between Avenue 16 and Alameda Street.



9th Street in San Pedro between Western Avenue and Gaffey Street.



92nd Street between Normandie Avenue and Van Ness Avenue.



98th Street between Vermont Avenue and Avalon Boulevard.



 




O




 



Ocean Park Boulevard between Gateway Boulevard and Centinela Avenue.



Olympic Boulevard between Century Park East and Sepulveda Boulevard.



Olympic Boulevard between Figueroa Street and Santee Street.



Olympic Boulevard between Gladys Avenue and Soto Street.



Olympic Boulevard between Robertson Boulevard and Figueroa Street.



Olympic Boulevard between Soto Street and Indiana Street.



Overland Avenue between Pico Boulevard and Palms Boulevard.



Owensmouth Avenue between Victory Boulevard and Valerio Street.



Oxnard Street between the terminus east of Aldea Avenue and Cahill Avenue.



Oxnard Street between Winnetka Avenue and De Soto Avenue.



Oxnard Street between Shoup Avenue and Fallbrook Avenue.



108th Street between Vermont Avenue and Central Avenue.



111th Street between Aviation Boulevard and La Cienega Boulevard.



135th Street between Figueroa Street and Vermont Avenue.



 




P




 



Pacific Avenue between 4th Street and Channel Street.



Pacific Avenue between 22nd Street and Shepard Street.



Palms Boulevard between Walgrove Avenue and National Boulevard.



Parthenia Street between Lindley Avenue and Tampa Avenue.



Pasadena Avenue between North Broadway and Avenue 39.



Paseo Del Mar between the west line of Gaffey Street and the west City limits.



Penrose Street between Sunland Boulevard and Tujunga Avenue.



Penrose Street between Sunland Boulevard and Wheatland Avenue.



Peoria Street between Stonehurst Avenue and Tujunga Avenue.



Pershing Drive between Culver Boulevard and Westchester Parkway.



Pico Boulevard between Figueroa Street and La Cienega Boulevard.



Pico Boulevard between La Cienega Boulevard and Centinela Avenue.



Platt Avenue between Cohasset Street and Ingomar Street.



Plummer Street between De Soto Avenue and the terminus east of Variel Avenue.



Plummer Street between Reseda Boulevard and Tampa Avenue.



Polk Street between Eldridge Avenue and Glenoaks Boulevard.



 




R




 



Redondo Boulevard between Jefferson Boulevard and La Brea Avenue.



Reseda Boulevard between Devonshire Street and 200 feet north of Linnet
Street.



Riverside Drive between Figueroa Street and Los Feliz Boulevard.



Robertson Boulevard between National Boulevard and Whitworth Drive.



Roscoe Boulevard between Haskell Avenue and Lankershim Boulevard.



Rose Avenue between Lincoln Boulevard and Walgrove Avenue.



Rossmore Avenue between Wilshire Boulevard and Melrose Avenue.



Rowena Avenue between Glendale Boulevard and Hyperion Avenue.



Roxford Street between Foothill Boulevard and Sepulveda Boulevard.



 




S




 



San Fernando Mission Boulevard between the City Limits northeasterly of Amboy
Avenue and Sepulveda Boulevard and between Louise Avenue and Newcastle Avenue.



On that portion of San Fernando Road east of the Southern Pacific
right-of-way between the north City limits of Burbank and the south City
limits of San Fernando.



San Fernando Road between Edward Avenue and Tyburn Street.



San Fernando Road between Pasadena Avenue and Poplar Street.



San Pedro Place between 40th Street and 41st Place.



San Pedro Street between 120th Street and Pico Boulevard.



San Vicente Boulevard between Gretna Green Way and the City Limit east of
26th Street.



San Vicente Boulevard between Venice Boulevard and Pico Boulevard.



On those portions of San Vicente Boulevard within the city of Los Angeles
between Wilshire Boulevard and La Cienega Boulevard.



Santa Ana Boulevard (south roadway) between Wilmington Avenue and Mona
Boulevard.



Santa Ana Boulevard (north roadway) between Graham Avenue and Mona Boulevard.



Santa Monica Boulevard between Sunset Boulevard and the Hollywood Freeway
(101).



Santa Monica Boulevard between the City Limit at Moreno Drive and the San
Diego Freeway (405).



Saticoy Street between Clybourn Avenue and Woodman Avenue, and between Van
Nuys Boulevard and Woodley Avenue.



Saticoy Street (south) between Saticoy Street and Whitsett Avenue.



Sawtelle Boulevard from the City limits southeast of Culver Drive to the City
limits near Borman Street.



Seaside Avenue between the west line of Altoona Place and the Long Beach City
limits easterly.



Sepulveda Boulevard between 84th Place and 92nd Street.



Sepulveda Boulevard between 92nd Street and Lincoln Boulevard.



Sherman Way between Clybourn Avenue and Shoup Avenue.



Shirley Avenue between Ventura Boulevard and Wells Drive.



Silver Lake Boulevard between Virgil Avenue and Glendale Boulevard.



Slauson Avenue from the City limits near Hillcrest Drive to Central Avenue.



Slauson Avenue from the City limits near Buckler Avenue to the City limits
near Keniston Avenue.



Soto Street between Huntington Drive South and City limit south of Washington
Boulevard.



Stadium Way between Academy Road and the Pasadena Freeway (110).



Strathern Street between Bellaire Avenue and San Fernando Road.



Sunset Boulevard between Pacific Coast Highway and the City limit at Ladera
Drive.



Sunset Boulevard between Figueroa Street and Virgil Avenue.



Sunset Boulevard between Crescent Heights Boulevard and the City limit west
of Havenhurst Drive.



2nd Street between Glendale Boulevard and Figueroa Street.



6th Street between Fairfax Avenue and Western Avenue.



6th Street between Alameda Street and the Los Angeles River.



6th Street between Western Avenue and Figueroa Street.



7th Street between Boyle Avenue and Alameda Street.



 




T




 



Tampa Avenue between Parthenia Street and Plummer Street.



Temple Street between Hoover Street and Broadway.



Topham Street between Cahill Avenue and Victory Boulevard.



Torrance Boulevard between Western Avenue and Normandie Avenue.



Townsend Avenue between Colorado Boulevard and Yosemite Drive.



Tujunga Avenue between Bradley Avenue and Peoria Street and between Penrose
Street and Ventura Boulevard.



Tunney Avenue between Devonshire Street and Tampa Avenue.



Tuxford Street between the east line of Lankershim Boulevard and the west
line of Sunland Boulevard.



3rd Place between Indiana Street and Velasco Street.



3rd Street between Boylston Street and Doheny Drive.



13th Street between Weymouth Avenue and Gaffey Street.



25th Street, San Pedro, between the west line of Gaffey Street and the west
line of Gunnell Avenue.



240th Street between Frampton Avenue and Western Avenue.



 




V




 



Valjean Avenue between Saticoy Street and Sherman Way.



Valley Boulevard between Block Place and the easterly City limits of the City
of Los Angeles.



Valley Circle Boulevard between Roscoe Boulevard and the City Limit east of
Box Canyon Road.



Van Ness Avenue between 54th Street and Slauson Avenue.



Van Ness Avenue northbound, between 76th Street and Century Boulevard.



Van Nuys Boulevard between Foothill Boulevard and Riverside Drive.



Vanalden Avenue between Gleneagles Drive and Ventura Boulevard.



Vanowen Street between the east City limit at Clybourn Avenue and Haskell
Avenue.



Variel Avenue between Oxnard Street and Victory Boulevard.



Venice Boulevard between Figueroa Street and Crenshaw Boulevard.



Venice Boulevard between Naples Avenue and Mildred Avenue.



Ventura Boulevard between Lankershim Boulevard and Winnetka Avenue and
between Kelvin Avenue and Valley Circle Boulevard.



Verdugo Road between Eagle Rock Boulevard and Hilda Avenue.



Vermont Avenue between Los Feliz Boulevard and Hollywood Boulevard.



Vermont Avenue between Olympic Boulevard and Manchester Avenue.



Vermont Avenue between the south line of Lomita Boulevard adjacent to the
City limits and the north line of Pacific Coast Highway.



On portions of Vermont Avenue within the City of Los Angeles between
Manchester Avenue and El Segundo Boulevard.



Veteran Avenue between Sunset Boulevard and Wilshire Boulevard.



Via Marisol between Avenue 57 and Monterey Road (south intersection).



Vine Street between Melrose Avenue and Franklin Avenue.



Vineland Avenue between Lorne Street and Stagg Street.



Virgil Avenue between Wilshire Boulevard and Sunset Boulevard.



Vista Del Mar between Culver Boulevard and Palace Street.



 




W




 



Washington Boulevard between the City Limit near Walnut Avenue and Pacific
Avenue, Venice.



Washington Boulevard from Alameda Street to Fairfax Avenue.



Washington Place between Grandview Boulevard and Albright Avenue.



Webb Avenue between Lankershim Boulevard and Laurel Canyon Boulevard.



West Jefferson Boulevard between Culver Boulevard and Lincoln Boulevard.



West Silver Lake Drive between Moreno Drive and Armstrong Avenue.



On the eastern portion of Western Avenue within the City of Los Angeles
between 220th Street and Torrance Boulevard.



On those portions of Western Avenue within the City of Los Angeles between
220th Street and 248th Street.



On those portions of Western Avenue in San Pedro within the City of Los
Angeles, between the north line of the extension of 3rd Street and the City
limits at Trudie Drive.



Western Avenue between 108th Street and Los Feliz Boulevard.



Western Avenue between 248th Street and the Los Angeles City Limit south of
261st Street.



Westmont Drive from Gaffey Street to west City limits.



Westwood Boulevard between Malcolm Avenue and Pico Boulevard.



Westwood Boulevard between Santa Monica Boulevard and Wilshire Boulevard.



Weymouth Avenue between 13th Street and Western Avenue.



White Oak Avenue between Rinaldi Street and San Jose Street.



Whitnall Highway (both roadways) between the Burbank City limit and Cleon
Avenue.



Whittier Boulevard between the Los Angeles River and Indiana Street.



Wilbur Avenue between Parthenia Street and Roscoe Boulevard.



Wilmington Boulevard between Lomita Boulevard and “C” Street.



Wilmington Avenue between 97th Street and Imperial Highway.



Wilshire Boulevard between the Beverly Hills City Limit and Veteran Avenue.



Wilshire Boulevard between Figueroa Street and San Vicente Boulevard.



Wilshire Boulevard between Federal Avenue and Centinela Avenue.



Wilton Place between Beverly Boulevard and Sunset Boulevard.



Wilton Place between 3rd Street and Olympic Boulevard.



Woodlake Avenue between Roscoe Boulevard and Sherman Way and between the
terminus north of Schoolcraft Street and Victory Boulevard.



Woodlake Avenue between Victory Boulevard and Ventura Boulevard.



Woodley Avenue between Balboa Boulevard and Rinaldi Street.



Woodman Avenue between Chatsworth Street and Ventura Boulevard.



 




Y




 



Yosemite Drive between Eagle Rock Boulevard and Figueroa Street.



 




Z




 



Zelzah Avenue between Rinaldi Street and Chatsworth Street.



 



   (3)   40 M.P.H. Prima Facie Speed Limit.  Upon the streets
designated in this subsection, a prima facie speed limit of 40 miles per hour
is hereby declared to be reasonable, safe, and more appropriate to facilitate
the orderly movement of traffic.



 




A




 



Alameda Street between 300 feet north of Pacific Coast Highway and Harry
Bridges Boulevard.



Alameda Street between 25th Street and Slauson Avenue.



Aviation Boulevard between 116th Street and Arbor Vitae Street.



 




B




 



Balboa Boulevard between Pineridge Drive and Rinaldi Street.



Balboa Boulevard between Rinaldi Street and Victory Boulevard.



Beverly Glen Boulevard between Sumac Drive and Mulholland Drive.



Broadway between Manchester Avenue and the City limit south of 120th Street.



Bundy Drive between Centinela Avenue and Ocean Park Boulevard.



Burbank Boulevard between the City Limit at Clybourn Avenue and the San Diego
Freeway (405) Ramps.



 




C




 



Cahuenga Boulevard East between Pilgrimage Bridge and Cahuenga Terrace.



Canoga Avenue between Marilla Street and Roscoe Boulevard.



Centinela Avenue between Palms Boulevard and Bundy Drive.



Central Avenue between Florence Avenue and the City limit south of 120th
Street.



Century Park East between Olympic Boulevard and Pico Boulevard.



Chandler Boulevard between Vineland Avenue and Coldwater Canyon Avenue.



Chandler Boulevard between Coldwater Canyon Avenue and Van Nuys Boulevard.



Chatsworth Street between Wilbur Avenue and Melvin Avenue.



Clybourn Avenue between Strathern Street and Cohasset Street.



Clybourn Avenue between Vanowen Street and Victory Boulevard.



Colfax Avenue between Moorpark Street and Ventura Boulevard.



Corbin Avenue between Lassen Street and Roscoe Boulevard.



Corbin Avenue between Roscoe Boulevard and Ventura Boulevard.



Culver Boulevard, south roadway, between the City Limits near Corinth Avenue
and the Marina Freeway (90).



 




D




 



De Soto Avenue between Chatsworth Street and Ventura Boulevard.



Devonshire Street between Arleta Avenue and De Soto Avenue.



Devonshire Street between De Soto Avenue and Topanga Canyon Boulevard.



 




F




 



Figueroa Street between 190th Street and Rosecrans Avenue.



Foothill Boulevard between Hubbard Street and Bledsoe Street.



Foothill Boulevard between Maclay Street and Van Nuys Boulevard.



Foothill Boulevard between Clybourn Avenue and Van Nuys Boulevard.



Foothill Boulevard between Lowell Avenue and Sunland Boulevard.



Foothill Boulevard between Sunland Boulevard and Wentworth Avenue.



 




G




 



Gaffey Street between 500 feet north of Westmont Drive and Summerland Avenue.



Glenoaks Boulevard between Foothill Boulevard and the City Limit south of
Hubbard Street.



Glenoaks Boulevard between Hollywood Way and the City Limit south of Cohasset
Street.



Grand Avenue between Vista Del Mar and the City Limits of the City of El
Segundo.



 




H




 



Harry Bridges Boulevard between Alameda Street and 200 feet east of Broad
Avenue.



Haskell Avenue between Rinaldi Street and Chase Street.



Haskell Avenue between Strathern Street and Victory Boulevard.



Hayvenhurst Avenue between Burbank Boulevard and Ventura Boulevard.



Hayvenhurst Avenue between Rinaldi Street and Lassen Street.



Hayvenhurst Avenue between Saticoy Street and Victory Boulevard.



Henry Ford Avenue between Alameda Street and Pier A Way.



Hollywood Way between Glenoaks Boulevard and the City Limit of the City of
Burbank.



Hubbard Street between Foothill Boulevard and Gavina Avenue.



Hubbard Street between Foothill Boulevard and the City limit east of Bradley
Avenue.



Hubbard Street between the City limit east of Hubbard Place and Laurel Canyon
Boulevard.



Huntington Drive (North Roadway) between the north City Limit to Van Horne
Avenue



Huntington Drive (South Roadway) between the east City Limit and Van Horne
Avenue.



 




I




 



Imperial Highway between Nash Street and La Cienega Boulevard.



Imperial Highway between San Pedro Street and Mona Boulevard.



Imperial Highway between Nash Street and Sepulveda Boulevard.



 




J




 



John S. Gibson Boulevard between Figueroa Street and the Harbor Freeway (110)
Northbound On and Off Ramps.



John S. Gibson Boulevard between the Harbor Freeway (110) Northbound On and
Off Ramps and Channel Street.



 




L




 



La Brea Avenue between Coliseum Street and Veronica Street.



La Cienega Boulevard between Century Boulevard and 116th Street.



La Tijera Boulevard between La Cienega Boulevard and 74th Street.



La Tijera Boulevard between 74th Street and Sepulveda Boulevard.



La Tuna Canyon Road between Elben Avenue and Ledge Avenue.



Lassen Street between Sepulveda Boulevard and Topanga Canyon Boulevard.



Lassen Street between Woodman Avenue and Sepulveda Boulevard.



Laurel Canyon Boulevard between Chatsworth Drive and Osborne Street.



Laurel Canyon Boulevard between Polk Street and Hubbard Street.



Laurel Canyon Boulevard between Sheldon Street and Riverside Drive.



Lindley Avenue between Nordhoff Street and Ventura Boulevard.



Lomita Boulevard, within the City of Los Angeles, between Figueroa Street and
Wilmington Avenue.



Louise Avenue between Victory Boulevard and Roscoe Boulevard.



 




M




 



Magnolia Boulevard between Haskell Avenue and Libbit Avenue.



Manchester Avenue between Osage Avenue and Sepulveda Boulevard.



Manchester Avenue between Sepulveda Boulevard and Lincoln Boulevard.



Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard between Leimert Boulevard and Obama
Boulevard.



Mason Avenue between Trentino Lane and Victory Boulevard.



Mountaingate Drive between Sepulveda Boulevard and Canyonback Road.



Mulholland Drive between Longbow Drive and Mulholland Place.



Mulholland Drive between San Feliciano Drive and Calabasas Road.



Mulholland Drive between Topanga Canyon Boulevard and San Feliciano Drive.



 




N




 



Nordhoff Street between De Soto Avenue and Topanga Canyon Boulevard.



Nordhoff Street between Haskell Avenue and De Soto Avenue.



Normandie Avenue between 190th Street and the City Limit south of 225th
Street.



 




O




 



Obama Boulevard between Exposition Boulevard and La Brea Avenue.



Obama Boulevard between La Brea Avenue and Jefferson Boulevard.



Olive View Drive between Cranston Avenue and Roxford Street.



Olympic Boulevard between Sepulveda Boulevard and Centinela Avenue.



Osborne Street between San Fernando Road and Woodman Avenue.



Oxnard Street between Clybourn Avenue and Sepulveda Boulevard.



Oxnard Street between De Soto Avenue and Shoup Avenue.



 




P




 



Palisades Drive between Calle Arbolada Drive and 550 feet south of Avenida de
Santa Ynez.



Parthenia Street between Van Nuys Boulevard and Sepulveda Boulevard.



Parthenia Street between Sepulveda Boulevard and Haskell Avenue.



Parthenia Street between De Soto Avenue and Topanga Canyon Boulevard.



Paxton Street between Arleta Avenue and Foothill Boulevard.



Platt Avenue between Burbank Boulevard and Cohasset Street.



Plummer Street between Canoga Avenue and Valley Circle Boulevard.



Plummer Street between Tampa Avenue and De Soto Avenue.



Plummer Street between Woodman Avenue and Van Nuys Boulevard.



Plummer Street between Van Nuys Boulevard and Zelzah Avenue.



Polk Street between Glenoaks Boulevard and San Fernando Road.



 




R




 



Redondo Beach Boulevard between Figueroa Street and Vermont Avenue.



Reseda Boulevard-Mecca Avenue between 200 feet north of Linnet and Winford
Street (North Intersection).



Rinaldi Street between Porter Ranch Drive and Laurel Canyon Boulevard.



Riverside Drive between Clybourn Avenue and Van Nuys Boulevard.



Roscoe Boulevard between Haskell Avenue and Valley Circle Boulevard.



Rosecrans Avenue from Vermont Avenue to the east City limits.



 




S




 



San Fernando Mission Boulevard between Sepulveda Boulevard and Louise Avenue
and between Newcastle Avenue and Reseda Boulevard.



San Fernando Road between 300 feet north of Monte Street and the City Limit
north of Hubbard Street.



San Fernando Road between Clybourn Avenue and Cohasset Street.



San Fernando Road between Fox Street and Clybourn Avenue.



San Fernando Road between Edward Avenue and Poplar Street.



San Vicente Boulevard between Pico Boulevard and Wilshire Boulevard.



Sawtelle Boulevard between Palms Boulevard and Venice Boulevard.



Sawtelle Boulevard between Pico Boulevard and Palms Boulevard.



Saticoy Street between Hayvenhurst Avenue and Woodlake Avenue.



On those portions of Sepulveda Boulevard within the City of Los Angeles
between Venice Boulevard and the City Limit north of Center Drive.



On those portions of Sepulveda Boulevard within the jurisdiction of the City
of Los Angeles between the City Limit south of Cashmere Street and the City
Limit north of Ohio Avenue.



Sepulveda Boulevard between the City Limit north of Ohio Avenue and Venice
Boulevard.



Sepulveda Boulevard between Plummer Street and Valley Vista Boulevard.



Sepulveda Boulevard between Rinaldi Street and Plummer Street.



Sepulveda Boulevard between Valley Vista Boulevard and Skirball Center Drive.



Sepulveda Boulevard between the City Limit west of Normandie Avenue and
Western Avenue.



Sesnon Boulevard between Balboa Boulevard and Neon Way.



Sesnon Boulevard between Neon Way and Longacre Avenue.



Sheldon Street between Glenoaks Boulevard and Roscoe Boulevard.



Sherman Way between Shoup Avenue and Platt Avenue.



Shoup Avenue between Roscoe Boulevard and Ventura Boulevard.



Stadium Way between Riverside Drive and Academy Road.



Sunland Boulevard between Sunland Park Drive and Nettleton Street.



 




T




 



Tampa Avenue between Devonshire Street and Plummer Street.



Tampa Avenue between Ventura Boulevard and Parthenia Street.



Terra Bella Street between San Fernando Road and Nordhoff Street.



25th Street between Gunnell Avenue and the west City limits.



223rd Street between Normandie Avenue and Western Avenue.



 




V




 



Valley Boulevard between Mission Road and Block Place.



Valley Circle Boulevard between Roscoe Boulevard and Bell Canyon Road.



Valley Circle Boulevard between Calenda Drive and Avenue San Luis.



Valley Circle Boulevard between Germain Street and Lassen Street.



Valley Circle Boulevard from Plummer Street to the City Limit west of
Schumann Road.



Valmar Road between Mulholland Drive and the City Limit north of Brenford
Street.



Vanowen Street between Haskell Avenue and Valley Circle Boulevard.



Venice Boulevard between Crenshaw Boulevard and Cadillac Avenue.



Venice Boulevard between Cadillac Avenue and McLaughlin Avenue.



Venice Boulevard between McLaughlin Avenue and Lincoln Boulevard.



Ventura Boulevard between Kelvin Avenue and Winnetka Avenue.



Vermont Avenue between 190th Street and Del Amo Boulevard.



On portions of Vermont Avenue within the City of Los Angeles between Artesia
Boulevard and El Segundo Boulevard.



On the portions of Vermont Avenue within the City of Los Angeles between
Artesia Boulevard and 190th Street.



Victory Boulevard between the City limit east of Clybourn Avenue and the San
Diego Freeway (405) Ramps.



Victory Boulevard between De Soto Avenue and Shoup Avenue.



Vineland Avenue between Stagg Street and Chandler Boulevard.



Vineland Avenue between Chandler Boulevard and Ventura Boulevard.



Vista Del Mar between Imperial Highway and Palace Street.



 




W




 



W C Fields Drive between Barham Boulevard and Universal Center Drive.



Washington Boulevard from Alameda Street to the eastern City Limit near
Grande Vista Avenue.



Westchester Parkway between Airport Boulevard and Will Rogers Place.



Westchester Parkway between Will Rogers Place and Emerson Avenue.



Western between Weymouth Place and 25th Street in the San Pedro area.



Western Avenue between 25th Street and Paseo Del Mar.



White Oak Avenue between Roscoe Boulevard and Ventura Boulevard.



Whitsett Avenue between Roscoe Boulevard and Riverside Drive.



Whitsett Avenue between Riverside Drive and Ventura Boulevard.



Wilbur Avenue between Roscoe Boulevard and Ventura Boulevard.



Winnetka Avenue between Nordhoff Street and Ventura Boulevard.



Woodley Avenue between Rinaldi Street and Victory Boulevard.



 



   (4)   45 M.P.H. Prima Facie Speed Limit.  Upon the streets
designated in this subsection, a prima facie speed limit of 45 miles per hour
is hereby declared to be reasonable, safe, and more appropriate to facilitate
the orderly movement of traffic.



 




A




 



Alameda Street between the City Limit north of Lomita Boulevard and 300 feet
north of Pacific Coast Highway.



Anaheim Street between Figueroa Place and Vermont Avenue.



Anaheim Street between the Long Beach City Limit and Henry Ford Avenue.



Arleta Avenue between Devonshire Street and Roscoe Boulevard.



 




B




 



Balboa Boulevard between Foothill Boulevard and Pineridge Drive.



Balboa Boulevard between Victory Boulevard and Burbank Boulevard.



Bell Canyon Road between Valley Circle Boulevard and the City Limit west of
Overland Drive.



Big Tujunga Canyon Road between Oro Vista Avenue and the City limits east of
Mt. Gleason Avenue.



Brand Boulevard between the City limit east of Acala Avenue and Sepulveda
Boulevard.



 




C




 



Cahuenga Boulevard East between Barham Boulevard and Pilgrimage Bridge.



Chatsworth Drive between Chatsworth Street and the Golden State Freeway (5).



Corbin Avenue between Rinaldi Street and Lassen Street.



Culver Boulevard between the Marina Freeway (90) and 1,000 feet east of
Nicholson Street.



 




D




 



De Soto Avenue between Chatsworth Street and the Simi Valley/San Fernando
Valley Freeway (118).



 




F




 



Fallbrook Avenue between Roscoe Boulevard and Ventura Boulevard.



Figueroa Street between Rosecrans Avenue and El Segundo Boulevard.



Figueroa Street between Pacific Coast Highway and Lomita Boulevard.



Foothill Boulevard between Bledsoe Street and Sierra Highway.



Foothill Boulevard between Hubbard Street and Maclay Street.



Forest Lawn Drive between the Ventura Freeway (134) and Barham Boulevard.



 




G




 



Gaffey Street between Anaheim Street and 500 feet north of Westmont Drive.



 




H




 



Harry Bridges Boulevard between 200 feet east of Broad Avenue and Figueroa
Street.



Hayvenhurst Avenue between Lassen Street and Roscoe Boulevard.



 




I




 



Imperial Highway between Sepulveda Boulevard and California Street.



 




J




 



Jefferson Boulevard between Lincoln Boulevard and Inglewood Boulevard.



 




L




 



La Brea Avenue between Stocker Street and Veronica Street.



La Cienega Boulevard between Bowcroft Street and the southern City limits.



La Cienega Boulevard between Fairview Boulevard and the City limits near 64th
Street.



On those sections of La Cienega Boulevard within the City of Los Angeles
between the City limits near Thornburn Street-Industrial Avenue and Fairview
Boulevard.



La Tuna Canyon Road between Elben Avenue and 3,800 feet east of Fire Road
(West).



Laurel Canyon Boulevard between Osborne Street and Sheldon Street.



 




N




 



Nordhoff Way between Nordhoff Street and Corbin Avenue.



Normandie Avenue between Pacific Coast Highway and Vermont Avenue.



 




O




 



Osborne Street between Foothill Boulevard and San Fernando Road.



190th Street between Figueroa Street and Western Avenue.



 




P




 



Palos Verdes Drive North between the west line of Gaffey Street and the west
City limits at Leesdale Avenue.



Parthenia Street between Haskell Avenue and Lindley Avenue.



Parthenia Street between Tampa Avenue and De Soto Avenue.



 




R




 



Reseda Boulevard between Sesnon Boulevard and Rinaldi Street.



Reseda Boulevard between Rinaldi Street and Devonshire Street.



Rinaldi Street between Porter Ranch Drive and Mason Avenue.



 




S




 



San Fernando Road between Sepulveda Boulevard and 300 feet north of Monte
Street.



Sepulveda Boulevard between the City Limit north of Center Drive and 84th
Place.



Sepulveda Boulevard between the Long Beach City Limit and the Carson City
Limit.



Sepulveda Boulevard between Getty Center Drive and the City Limit south of
Cashmere Street.



Sepulveda Boulevard between Skirball Center Drive and Getty Center Drive.



Sesnon Boulevard between Reseda Boulevard and Crystal Springs Circle.



Sheldon Street between Wentworth Street and Glenoaks Boulevard.



Sunland Boulevard between Foothill Boulevard and Nohles Drive



Sunland Boulevard between Nohles Drive and Sunland Park Drive.



 




T




 



Tampa Avenue between Rinaldi Street and Devonshire Street.



Temescal Canyon Road between Sunset Boulevard and Pacific Coast Highway.



223rd Street between Long Beach City Limit and Carson City Limit.



 




V




 



Valley Circle Boulevard between Bell Canyon Road and Burbank Boulevard.



Valley Circle Boulevard between Burbank Boulevard and Calenda Drive.



Vermont Avenue between Pacific Coast Highway and Anaheim Street.



Victory Boulevard between the San Diego Freeway (405) and De Soto Avenue.



Victory Boulevard between Shoup Avenue and Valley Circle Boulevard.



Vista Del Mar between Imperial Highway and the City Limit at Grand Avenue.



 




W




 



Wentworth Street between Sheldon Street and Stonehurst Avenue.



Wentworth Street between Mary Bell Avenue and Foothill Boulevard.



Western Avenue, within the City of Los Angeles, between 182nd Street and
Torrance Boulevard.



Wilbur Avenue between Tampa Avenue and Devonshire Street.



Wilbur Avenue between Devonshire Street and Nordhoff Street.



Winnetka Avenue between Devonshire Street and Nordhoff Street.



Woodley Avenue between Victory Boulevard and Burbank Boulevard.



 




Z




 



Zelzah Avenue between Chatsworth Street and Nordhoff Street.



 



   (5)   50 M.P.H. Prima Facie Speed Limit.  Upon the streets
designated in this subsection, a prima facie speed limit of 50 miles per hour
is hereby declared to be reasonable safe and more appropriate to facilitate
the orderly movement of traffic.



 




B




 



Burbank Boulevard between the San Diego Freeway (405) and 1,000 feet east of
McLennan Avenue.



 




C




 



Corbin Avenue between Mason Avenue and Rinaldi Street.



 




F




 



Foothill Boulevard between Clybourn Avenue and Wheatland Avenue.



Foothill Boulevard between Wentworth Avenue and Wheatland Avenue.



 




G




 



Glenoaks Boulevard between Osborne Street and Hollywood Way.



 




I




 



Imperial Highway between California Street and Vista Del Mar.



 




L




 



La Tuna Canyon Road between 3,800 feet east of Fire Road (West) and Tujunga
Canyon Boulevard.



 




P




 



Palisades Drive between 550 feet south of Avenida de Santa Ynez and Sunset
Boulevard.



 




S




 



San Fernando Road between Sepulveda Boulevard and Sierra Highway.



Sepulveda Boulevard between San Fernando Road and Roxford Street.



Sesnon Boulevard between Crystal Springs Circle and Porter Ranch Drive.



 




T




 



Tampa Avenue between the City limit north of Sesnon Boulevard and Rinaldi
Street.



 




W




 



Wentworth Street between Stonehurst Avenue and Mary Bell Avenue.



Westchester Parkway between Pershing Drive and Emerson Avenue.



 



   (6)   25 M.P.H. Prima Facie Speed Limit.  Upon the streets
designated in this subsection, a prima facie speed limit of 25 miles per hour
is hereby declared to be reasonable, safe and more appropriate to facilitate
the orderly movement of traffic.



 




A




 



Alexandria Avenue between Santa Monica Boulevard and Melrose Avenue.



Aliso Street between Alameda Street and North Broadway.



Alla Road between the City Limits south of Washington Boulevard and Maxella
Avenue.



Allin Street and Marionwood Drive between Braddock Drive and Inglewood
Boulevard.



Alma Real Drive between Altata Drive (north intersection) and La Cruz Drive.



Amalfi Drive between Romany Drive and Upper Mesa Road.



Arcadia Street between Alameda Street and North Broadway.



Art Street between Wheatland Avenue and Stonehurst Avenue.



 




B




 



Bel Air Road between Rial Lane and Sunset Boulevard.



Bellagio Road between Bel Air Road and Moraga Drive.



Bellevue Avenue between Coronado Street and Hoover Street.



Blinn Avenue between Pacific Coast Highway and “Q” Street.



Bowdoin Street between Temescal Drive and Erskine Drive.



Bristol Avenue between San Vicente Boulevard and Sunset Boulevard.



Bundy Drive between Chalon Road and Norman Place.



Burlingame Avenue between San Vicente Boulevard and Sunset Boulevard.



 




C




 



Canoga Avenue between Villena Avenue and Mulholland Drive.



Cascada Way between Bellagio Road and Glenroy Avenue.



Chalon Road between Bellagio Road (south intersection) and Stone Canyon Road.



Chalon Road between Mandeville Canyon Road and Westridge Road.



Chase Street between Louise Avenue and Wilbur Avenue.



Commonwealth Avenue between Beverly Boulevard and Wilshire Boulevard.



Copa De Oro Road between Sunset Boulevard and Bellagio Road.



Corona del Mar between Altata Drive (north intersection) and Chautauqua
Boulevard.



Coronado Street between Sunset Boulevard and Temple Street.



Cudahy Street between Collis Avenue and Pueblo Avenue.



 




D




 



Day Street between the City Limit east of Amanita Avenue and Silverton Avenue.



Del Moreno Drive between Ventura Boulevard and Wells Drive.



Dewey Street between Walgrove Avenue and Stewart Avenue.



Dodson Avenue between 9th Street and Western Avenue.



 




E




 



Echo Park Avenue between Landa Street and Bellevue Avenue.



Edgemont Street between Los Feliz Boulevard and Santa Monica Boulevard.



Electra Drive between Mount Olympus Drive and Hercules Drive.



Emerson Avenue between 80th Street and Will Rogers Street.



 




F




 



Franklin Avenue between Cahuenga Boulevard and Highland Avenue.



Frigate Avenue between Lomita Boulevard and Pacific Coast Highway.



 




H




 



Hauser Boulevard between 3rd Street and 6th Street.



Hauser Boulevard between Washington Boulevard and Jefferson Boulevard.



Hercules Drive between Electra Drive and Apollo Drive.



Herrick Avenue between Brownell Street and Pierce Street.



Hillhurst Avenue between Vermont Avenue and Los Feliz Boulevard.



Hollywood Boulevard between Gower Street and La Brea Avenue.



Huston Street between Hazeltine Avenue and Cedros Avenue.



 




L




 



Laurel Canyon Boulevard between Mulholland Drive and Mount Olympus Drive.



Laurel Terrace Drive between Whitsett Avenue and Laurel Canyon Boulevard.



 




M




 



McVine Avenue between Ellenbogen Street and Foothill Boulevard.



Mount Olympus Drive between Electra Drive and Laurel Canyon Boulevard.



 




N




 



Neptune Avenue between Lomita Boulevard and “C” Street.



Nichols Canyon Road between Woodrow Wilson Drive and Willow Glen Road.



 




O




 



Outpost Drive between Mulholland Drive and Franklin Avenue.



Overland Avenue between Santa Monica Boulevard and Pico Boulevard.



 




P




 



Pacific Avenue between 62nd Avenue and Culver Boulevard.



 




Q




 



Quesan Place between Halton Street and Louise Avenue.



 




R




 



Rancho Street between Louise Avenue and White Oak Avenue.



Rockingham Avenue between the City limits north of 26th Street and Sunset
Boulevard.



Roscomare Road between Chalon Road and Linda Flora Drive/Stradella Road.



 




S




 



Saint Pierre Road between Beverly Glen Boulevard and Bel Air Road.



San Marino Street between Vermont Avenue and Normandie Avenue.



San Rafael Avenue between Avenue 50 and Avenue 37.



Speedway between 62nd Avenue and 66th Avenue.



Stone Canyon Road between Lindamere Drive and Chalon Road.



Sunset Plaza Drive between Appian Way and the City limit south of Pine Tree
Place.



7th Street between Central Avenue and Alameda Street.



 




T




 



Townsend Avenue between Avenue 51 and Oak Grove Drive.



Townsend Avenue between Hill Drive and Colorado Boulevard.



Trolley Way between Culver Boulevard and Surf Street.



 




V




 



Valjean Avenue between Sherman Way and Victory Boulevard.



Vermont Avenue between Los Feliz Boulevard and its terminus north of Aberdeen
Avenue.



Vineland Avenue between San Fernando Road and Lorne Street.



 




W




 



Westholme Avenue between Hilgard Avenue and Wilshire Boulevard.



White Oak Avenue between Valley Vista Boulevard and Rancho Street.



Willow Glen Road between Laurel Canyon Boulevard and Nichols Canyon Road.



Willow Glen Road between Woodstock Road and Nichols Canyon Road.



Wilton Place between Beverly Boulevard and 3rd Street.



Woodley Avenue between Magnolia Boulevard and Ventura Boulevard.



Woodstock Road between Woodrow Wilson Drive and Willow Glen Road.



Wrightwood Lane between Fredonia Drive and Wrightwood Drive.



 



   (7)   55 M.P.H. Prima Facie Speed Limit.  Upon the streets
designated in this subsection, a prima facie speed limit of 55 miles per hour
is hereby declared to be reasonable, safe, and more appropriate to facilitate
the orderly movement of traffic.



 




P




 



Pershing Drive between Westchester Parkway and Imperial Highway.



 




T




 



On the Terminal Island Freeway (103) between the eastern Los Angeles City
limits and the southern Los Angeles City limits.



 



   (8)   15 M.P.H. Prima Facie Speed Limit.  Upon streets designated
in this subsection a prima facie speed limit of 15 miles per hour is hereby
declared to be a reasonable, safe and more appropriate to facilitate the
orderly movement of traffic.



 




D




 



Dell Avenue between Dante Court and South Venice Boulevard.



 




G




 



Gorham Place between Darlington Avenue and Gorham Avenue.



 




R




 



Rendall Place between Effle Street and Berkeley Avenue.



 



   (9)   20 M.P.H. Prima Facie Speed Limit.  Upon streets designated
in this subsection a prima facie speed limit of 20 miles per hour is hereby
declared to be reasonable, safe, and more appropriate to facilitate the
orderly movement of traffic.



 




C




 



Colden Avenue between Clovis Avenue and Vermont Avenue.



Crescent Avenue between Beacon Street and 21st Street.



 




S




 



7th Street between Vermont Avenue and Catalina Street.



 



 



 



DIVISION “Q”
MISCELLANEOUS



 



 



Section



85.00   Removal of Glass and Other Debris from Scene of Accident.



85.01   Repairing Vehicles on Streets.



85.02   Regulating the Use of Vehicles for Dwelling.



85.04   Bicycle Infrastructure Zones.



85.05   Implementation of the Employee Transit Subsidy Program.



85.06   Advertising Sales in Residential Areas.



85.07   Regulation of Roller-skating, Skateboarding and Bicycling.



85.09   Establishment of Bicycle Lanes.



85.10   Fees for Copies of Transportation Records.



 



 



SEC. 85.00.  REMOVAL OF GLASS AND OTHER DEBRIS FROM SCENE OF ACCIDENT.



 



   The driver of every vehicle, which is involved in any collision, shall
remove, or cause to be removed, all glass and other debris which may have
fallen upon any public street or alley as a result of such collision, from
such street or alley before leaving the place of the collision; and every
person hired or employed to move or remove any such vehicle shall remove all
glass and other debris which may have fallen upon any public street or alley
as a result of the collision in which the vehicle was involved, before
removing the vehicle.



 



 



SEC. 85.01.  REPAIRING VEHICLES ON STREETS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 168,782, Eff. 7/12/93.)



 



   (a)   No person shall dismantle, repair, or make any repairs, or add
or install any part or accessory, to or on any vehicle, machine, motor,
appliance or other device, while the same is upon any public or private
highway, street, alley way or similar place.



 



   (b)   No person shall park any vehicle for the purpose of making
repairs while the same is upon any public or private highway, street, alley
way or similar place.



 



   (c)   The provisions of this section shall not be deemed to prohibit
the driver of any vehicle, which is disabled while upon any public or private
highway, street, alley way or similar place to such extent that it is
impossible to avoid stopping, from making, or causing to be made, the repairs
necessary to enable such vehicle to be moved from the public or private
highway, street, alley way or similar place.



 



 



SEC. 85.02.  REGULATING THE USE OF VEHICLES FOR DWELLING.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 186,236, Eff. 8/2/19.)



 



   A.   Use of Vehicles for Dwelling Restricted on City Streets.  No
person shall use a Vehicle for Dwelling as follows:



 



   1.   Between the hours of 9:00 P.M. and 6:00 A.M. on any Residential
Street; or



 



   2.   At any time within a one Block radius of any edge of a lot
containing a park or a licensed school, pre-school or daycare facility.



 



   Nothing herein precludes the enforcement of any other laws such as
parking restrictions, including, but not limited to, prohibitions on
overnight parking.



 



   B.   Definitions.  As used in this section:



 



   1.   Block is defined as 500 feet.



 



   2.   Dwelling means more than one of the following activities and
when it reasonably appears, in light of all the circumstances, that a person
is using a vehicle as a place of residence or accommodation:



 




Possessing inside or on a vehicle items that are not associated with ordinary
vehicle use, such as a sleeping bag, bedroll, blanket, sheet, pillow, kitchen
utensils, cookware, cooking equipment, bodily fluids.  Obscuring some or all
of the vehicle's windows.  Preparing or cooking meals inside or on a
vehicle.  Sleeping inside a vehicle.




 



   3.   Residential Street means any street which adjoins one or more
single family or multi-family residentially zoned parcel.



 



   4.   Vehicle means any motor vehicle, trailer, house car or trailer
coach as defined by the California Vehicle Code.



 



   C.   Penalty.  A first violation of this section shall be
punishable as an infraction not to exceed $25.  A second violation of this
section shall be punishable as an infraction not to exceed $50 and all
subsequent violations of this section shall punishable as an infraction not
to exceed $75.  Violators may be eligible for referral to a
prosecutorial-led diversion program such as the Homeless Engagement and
Response Team (HEART).



 



   D.   Sunset Provision.  This section shall expire and be deemed to
have been repealed on January 1, 2020, unless extended by ordinance.



 



   E.   Severability.  If any portion, subsection, sentence, clause or
phrase of this section is for any reason held by a court of competent
jurisdiction to be invalid, such a decision shall not affect the validity of
the remaining portions of this section.  The City Council hereby declares
that it would have passed this ordinance and each portion or subsection,
sentence, clause and phrase herein, irrespective of the fact that any one or
more portions, subsections, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared invalid.



 



 



SEC. 85.04.  BICYCLE INFRASTRUCTURE ZONES.



   (Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 182,514, Eff. 6/3/13.)



 



   (a)   Establishment of Zones.  When the Department shall determine
that the establishment of a bicycle infrastructure zone is necessary to
provide facilities for the parking of bicycles and amenities for a bikeshare
operation upon the public streets, or to safeguard life or property, it is
hereby authorized to set aside a space in the public right-of-way for the use
of the parking or sharing of bicycles; provided that installation of such
accommodates pedestrians and complies with the Americans with Disabilities
Act (ADA).  When a bicycle infrastructure zone is established, the
Department may require appropriate design elements to be installed thereat,
giving notice that the area is designated for bicycle parking or sharing, and
when said bicycle parking or sharing elements are within the roadway, the
parking of motor vehicles is prohibited, and it shall thereupon be unlawful
for any person to stop, stand or park a motor vehicle within or in front of
such zone.



 



   (b)   Bicycle Infrastructure Permit Requirements.



 



   1.   No person shall install or maintain a bicycle infrastructure
element on any sidewalk or street except within a Department of
Transportation approved bicycle infrastructure zone.  No person shall
install or maintain any bicycle parking or sharing device without plan
approval or a permit from the Department and the payment of appropriate fees
to review and process the application.  In addition, installation or
modification of any permanently fixed structure will be subject to the Board
of Public Works permit requirements as specified in Section 62.105 of this
Code.



 



   2.   Each application for a permit or plan approval hereunder must
be in writing upon a form provided by the Department.  The application must
set forth the proposed location of the bicycle parking or sharing device and
must be accompanied by a site plan of the proposed device showing the
location, detailed plans and specifications thereof.  Bicycle infrastructure
devices within the public right-of-way shall meet requirements or
specifications established by the City.  Each application must be
accompanied by a written instrument signed by the owner, person in lawful
possession or control of the property abutting upon the public street at the
place where the bicycle parking device is proposed to be located, and the
operator of said device giving consent to its installation and maintenance. 
If the plan approval or permit is granted, the authorized bicycle
infrastructure device authorized by the Department must conform in all
respects to the site plan and requirements established by the City.



 



 



SEC. 85.05.  IMPLEMENTATION OF THE EMPLOYEE TRANSIT SUBSIDY PROGRAM.



   (Added by Ord. No. 164,483, Eff. 3/30/89.)



 



   (a)   General Provisions.



 



   (1)   Purpose. To support the South Coast Air Quality Management
District’s (SCAQMD) Commuter Program in its effort to reduce air pollution
and traffic congestion by requiring that employers who must prepare SCAQMD
mandated Trip Reductions Plans for worksites located within the City of Los
Angeles implement specific ridesharing incentive measures detailed in this
section as part of their Trip Reduction Plans.



 



   (2)   Scope. This section shall apply to all employers within the
city limits, including the City of Los Angeles (City) and its proprietary
departments, that are also regulated by SCAQMD Regulation XV (Regulation XV).
Compliance with this ordinance shall be in addition to any acts required of
employers by Regulation XV. Nothing in this section is intended nor shall it
be so construed as to limit or otherwise preclude employers from offering or
providing additional ridesharing options to their employees.



 



   (b)   Subsidies.



 



   (1)   Each employer in the City that offers free or subsidized
parking to any employee and is covered by Regulation XV shall offer a $15
(fifteen) per month transit subsidy to each of its employees for their use in
commuting to and from the employer’s worksite, as that term is defined in
Rule 1502(k) of Regulation XV. However, an employer who provides free or
subsidized vanpool or carpool parking only, shall be exempt from the
provisions of this section.



 



   (2)   This $15 subsidy may be provided in the following ways:



 



   (A)   An employer may purchase transit passes and tickets, including
RTD passes and tickets, City Commuter Express passes and tickets, AMTRAK
passes and tickets, and passes and tickets on any other transit lines which
serve employees’ homes and places of work and then resell them to their
employees at a $15 per month discount;



 



   (B)   An employer may offer bus tokens or tickets in the amount of
$15 to each of its employees. These tokens or tickets would be first
purchased by the employer, then given to the employee free of charge to a
maximum of $15 per employee per month.



 



   (c)   Monitoring.  The documentation of compliance with this
section shall be filed with the SCAQMD in conjunction with the Trip Reduction
Plan submitted by employers to SCAQMD as required by Rule 1501 of Regulation
XV. At the same time, a copy of said documentation shall also be filed with
the City of Los Angeles Department of Transportation.



 



   (d)   Sanctions.  Any employer violating the requirements of this
section is subject to an administrative penalty of $100 per day for each
separate violation. Every day during any portion of which such a violation
occurs is a separate offense.



 



   Any monies collected as administrative penalties shall be placed in the
Employee Transit Subsidy Account and used only for the administration of the
requirements of this section.



 



   (e)   Appeal.  Within 10 days after a Notice of Violation has been
issued, an employer may appeal a violation to the Board.



 



   (1)   The Board shall set a hearing date within a reasonable time.



 



   (2)   Hearings need not be conducted according to formal or
technical rules of evidence.



 



   (3)   Each party shall have the right to:



 



   (A)   Call and examine witnesses;



 



   (B)   Introduce exhibits;



 



   (C)   Rebut evidence against him;



 



   (D)   Represent himself or be represented by anyone of his choice.



 



   (4)   Any member of the Board who did not hear the evidence or read
the record or proceedings shall not vote on the decision.



 



   (5)   The decision shall be in writing and shall contain findings of
fact, a determination of the issues presented, and the penalty, if any. A
copy of the decision shall be delivered to the appellant by certified mail,
return receipt requested.



 



   (f)   Timetable.  This section shall have a timetable of
implementation identical to and in accordance with Rule 1503(a) of Regulation
XV.



 



 



SEC. 85.06.  ADVERTISING SALES IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 166,310, Eff. 11/16/90.)



 



   (a)   No person shall place, establish, or maintain any sign,
banner, billboard or other advertisement which is visible to the operator of
any motor vehicle operated on any public street, road or highway and which
sign displays any word, phrase, character or symbol calculated to direct
traffic on to any residential street and which sign advertises the sale of
any goods, wares or merchandise including printed matter which sale is to
occur on any property not zoned for commercial use.  The provisions of this
section shall include but not be limited to placement of the advertisement on
any motor vehicle.



 



   (b)   A residential street shall be defined as any public street
with fewer than three lanes intended for vehicular traffic where a majority
of the buildings situated on the property contiguous thereto are used for
residential purposes, whether single-family or multi-family dwellings.



 



   (c)   This section shall not apply to the otherwise lawful placing,
erecting or maintaining of any sign, banner or billboard advertising any
lawful garage, yard, rummage or similar sale to be conducted on the property
of the seller.



 



 



SEC. 85.07.  REGULATION OF ROLLER-SKATING, SKATEBOARDING AND BICYCLING.



   (Added by Ord. No. 166,526, Eff. 1/27/91.)



 



   (a)   The Department of Transportation is hereby authorized to
install any traffic control devices it determines necessary to regulate
roller-skating, skateboarding and bicycling on sidewalks and roadways in
order to improve vehicular or pedestrian movement, reduce congestion or
diminish accident potential. Such determinations shall be made only on the
basis of traffic engineering principles and traffic investigations.  When
such determinations have been made, the Department is authorized to install
signs giving notice as to the nature of the regulation as well as signs that
provide such safety warnings as it determines will assist those engaged in
the regulated activities.



 



   (b)   No person shall roller-skate, skateboard, or operate a bicycle
in violation of the limitations set forth on regulatory signs posted pursuant
to this section.



 



 



SEC. 85.09.  ESTABLISHMENT OF BICYCLE LANES.



   (Added by Ord. No. 166,526, Eff. 1/27/91.)



 



   (a)   The Department is hereby authorized to determine and establish
bicycle lanes at designated locations separated from vehicular lanes upon
roadways and sidewalks not part of a state highway, as defined by Section 24
of the Streets and Highways Code, or a county highway established pursuant to
Article 5 of Chapter IX of Division 2 of the Streets and Highways Code. 
When such determination has been made, the Department is authorized to
install, at each designated location, appropriate signs, striping, pavement
markings or other traffic control devices as required by state law and as
otherwise necessary to warn, guide and direct bicycle and vehicular traffic
for public safety purposes.



 



   (b)   No person shall ride a bicycle on any bicycle lane other than
as directed by signs, striping, pavement markings or other traffic control
devices, or as otherwise required by state or local law.



 



 



SEC. 85.10.  FEES FOR COPIES OF TRANSPORTATION RECORDS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 168,275, Eff. 11/19/92.)



 



   The Department shall collect the following fees for providing copies of
the indicated records:



 




(a)  Sign Maintenance History:   $13.00











(b)  Signal Maintenance History:   9.00











(c)  Timing Chart:   5.00











(d)  Geometric Plan:   9.00











(e)  Signal Plan:   9.00











(f)  Accident Summary:   11.00











(g)  Work Order (Sign, Signal, Striping, etc.):   6.00











(h)  Speed Survey:   4.00











(i)  Traffic Counts:   6.00











(j)  Stop Sign Map:   9.00











(k)  Records Center Files/Telephone Records:   15.00











(l)  Master Files:   9.00











(m)  Copy of Parking Citation:   $2.00





   (Added by Ord. No. 170,662, Eff. 9/24/95.)











(n)  Credit Card Processing Fee:   $2.00





   (Added by Ord. No. 171,506, Eff. 3/21/97.)




 



 



 



DIVISION “R”
TRAFFIC REGULATION IN PARKS



 



 



Section



86.00   Boulevard Stops in Parks.



86.01   Boulevard Stops in Parks – Observance Required.



86.02   Speed of Vehicles in Parks.



86.03   Standing or Parking of Vehicles – in Park.



86.04   Bicycles in Parks, Etc.



86.05   Bridle Paths in Parks, Etc.



86.06   Posting of Signs – Driving and Parking Prohibited.



86.07   Crosswalks in Parks, Etc.



86.08   Red Flag Day Parking.



 



 



SEC. 86.00.  BOULEVARD STOPS IN PARKS.



 



   The Board is hereby authorized and directed to establish and maintain
boulevard stops at appropriate points, places or intersections in public
parks; provided, such boulevard stops are posted.  (Amended by Ord. No.
153,027, Eff. 11/16/79.)



 



 



SEC. 86.01.  BOULEVARD STOPS IN PARKS – OBSERVANCE REQUIRED.



 



   The driver of any vehicle on any street or roadway in any public park
in the City of Los Angeles upon approaching any entrance of a highway or
intersection sign-posted with a stop sign as provided in this division shall
stop at such sign before entering or crossing such highway or intersection.



 



 



SEC. 86.02.  SPEED OF VEHICLES IN PARKS.



 



   (a)   No person shall drive a vehicle on any park road or other way,
or travel in any public park at a speed greater than is reasonable or
prudent, having due regard for the traffic on and the surface and width of
the road or way, and in no event at a speed in excess of 25 miles per hour;
provided, however, that the maximum speed limit on Riverside Drive from Los
Feliz Boulevard northerly on Riverside Drive to the junction of the City
limits of the City of Los Angeles and the City of Glendale shall be 45 miles
per hour; and provided, further, that the maximum speed limit established
herein shall not apply to those streets in and through park lands which are
opened, established and maintained by virtue of permission given by the Board
of Recreation and Park Commissioners, approved by the City Council by
ordinance.



 



   (b)   The Board of Recreation and Park Commissioners is authorized
and directed to erect and maintain sign posts indicating the speed limits
herein established at each entrance into any park of each such roadway or
street, except those roadways hereinabove expressly excepted. The Board may
erect and maintain such signposts at other appropriate places along the
roadways or streets within any park.



 



   (c)   No person shall drive a vehicle in any parking area owned by
or under the management and control of the Board of Recreation and Park
Commissioners at a speed greater than is reasonable or prudent, having due
regard for the traffic on, and the surface and width of the roadway, and in
no event at a speed in excess of ten miles per hour.



 



   (d)   The Board of Recreation and Park Commissioners is authorized
and directed to erect and maintain sign posts indicating the speed limits
herein established at each entrance into any such parking area. The Board may
erect and maintain such sign posts at other appropriate places within the
parking area in any park or recreation area.



 



   (e)   No person shall drive any vehicle upon property owned by or
under the management and control of the Board of Recreation and Park
Commissioners in willful or wanton disregard for the safety of persons or
property.



 



   (f)   No person shall engage in any motor vehicle speed contest,
drag race, or exhibition of speed upon property owned by or under the
management and control of the Board of Recreation and Park Commissioners. No
person shall aid or abet in any such motor vehicle speed contest, drag race,
or exhibition of speed upon property owned by or under the management and
control of said Board.



 



   (g)   Nothing contained in this section shall apply to any activity
sponsored, directed, or approved by the Board of Recreation and Park
Commissioners and the City Council.  (Added by Ord. No. 107,937, Eff.
10/11/56.)



 



   Roadways within parks are not general arteries of travel and regulation
of traffic thereon is a municipal affair and therefore regulations
established by City Ordinance will  prevail over State law.



   People v. Jackman, (1938)  CR A 1502.



 



 



SEC. 86.03.  STANDING OR PARKING OF VEHICLES – IN PARK.



 



   The Board of Recreation and Park Commissioners is hereby authorized and
directed to post and maintain appropriate signs indicating that parking is
limited or prohibited on any park-drive, park-road, or at any other place
within parks, playgrounds and recreation areas owned or controlled by the
City during such hours, or on such days, or both, as is necessary for the
safety of the public or the reasonable use or enjoyment by the public of the
park, playground or recreation area, and whenever such authorized signs are
in place, giving notice thereon that parking is limited or prohibited during
such hours or on such days as are indicated on the signs, it shall be
unlawful for any person to park any vehicle, motor vehicle or motorcycle at
any time during such hours or on such days, or for any length of time
prohibited as indicated by such signs.



 



 



SEC. 86.04.  BICYCLES IN PARKS, ETC.



 



   No person shall drive a vehicle or bicycle on any path designated or
posted as a “trail” by the Board of Recreation and Park Commissioners.



 



 



SEC. 86.05.  BRIDLE PATHS IN PARKS, ETC.



 



   No person shall drive a saddlehorse on any road other than a road
designated and posted as a “Bridle Path,” except that roads not
designated as bridle paths may be crossed at crossings designated by the
Board of Recreation and Park Commissioners and appropriately posted therefor.



 



 



SEC. 86.06.  POSTING OF SIGNS – DRIVING AND PARKING PROHIBITED.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 168,782, Eff. 7/12/93.)



 



   (a)   No person shall drive any vehicle, motor vehicle or motorcycle
upon any path, trail, bridle path, or in any other area, unless it is posted
for parking, within a public park, playground or recreation area owned or
controlled by the City.



 



   (b)   No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle, motor vehicle
or motorcycle upon any path, trail, bridle path, or in any other area, unless
it is posted for parking, within a public park, playground or recreation area
owned or controlled by the City.



 



 



SEC. 86.07.  CROSSWALKS IN PARKS, ETC.



 



   The Board of Recreation and Park Commissioners is hereby authorized and
directed to establish and mark crosswalks within parks, playgrounds and
recreation areas owned or controlled by the City where it determines that
such crosswalks are necessary in order to eliminate hazards to pedestrians
crossing any park-drive or park-road.



 



   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right of way to a pedestrian
crossing a park-drive or park-road within any marked cross-walk.



 



 



SEC. 86.08.  RED FLAG DAY PARKING.



(Added by Ord. No. 179,578, Eff. 3/17/08.)



 



   (a)   Upon declaration of a Red Flag day and issuance of Red Flag
restrictions in the Mt. Washington area by the Los Angeles Fire Department,
residents shall be permitted to park in the parking lots of the following
Recreation and Parks facilities:



 



   (1)   the Carlin G. Smith Recreation Center (in designated “Red
Flag Day” parking spaces only);



 



   (2)   Ramona Hall;



 



   (3)   the Sycamore Grove Bandshell.



 



   (b)   During the period of Red Flag restrictions, residents shall be
permitted to enter the parking lots of the Recreation and Park facilities
listed in Subsection (a) in order to access their vehicles.



 



   (c)    Parking restrictions and enforcement at the parking lots of
the Recreation and Parks facilities listed in Subsection (a) shall resume at
the regular closing time of the facilities one day after the Los Angeles Fire
Department declares that Red Flag conditions in the Mt. Washington area have
ceased and the Red Flag restrictions are lifted.



 



 



DIVISION “S”
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS IN THE HARBOR DISTRICT



 



 



Section



87.00   Stop Signs to Be Erected.



87.01   Stops Required at Stop Intersections.



87.02   Parking Near Fire Hydrants Prohibited.



87.03   Parallel Parking Required, Exceptions.



87.04   Parking Time Limited on Certain Roadways.



87.05   Parking Prohibited on Certain Harbor Department Roadways, To-wit.



87.06   Parking Prohibited on Certain Public Streets in the Harbor
District.



87.07   Speed Law and Speed Limit upon Harbor Department Roadways.



87.08   Vehicle Code Governs; Temporary Rules and Regulations.



87.09   Parking Prohibited on or Within Six (6) Feet of Any Railroad Track
on Lands Under the Jurisdiction and Control of the Board of Harbor
Commissioners, and Parking and Standing Prohibited or Limited to Specific
Time and for Loading and Unloading on Harbor Department Streets, Roadways,
Thoroughfares, and Areas, or Portions Thereof, When Posted and Painted.



87.10   One Way Traffic on Certain Roadways in the Harbor District.



87.11   Camping and Recreational Vehicles Prohibited from Parking Between
2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.



87.12   Security Officer.



 



 



SEC. 87.00.  STOP SIGNS TO BE ERECTED.



 



   That stop signs shall be placed and maintained by the Board or Harbor
Commissioners at or near the entrance to the following Harbor Department
roadways and intersections, to-wit:



 



   (a)   On first private roadway southerly of Twenty-second Street at
the southwesterly corner of Miner Street to stop traffic entering Miner
Street.



 



   (b)   On Signal Street at the northwesterly and southeasterly
corners of Twenty-second Street to stop traffic entering Twenty-second Street.



 



   (c)   On Signal Street low level road underneath viaduct at corner
of retaining wall to stop traffic from loading truck loading area.



 



   (d)   On Water Street at northeasterly corner of Fries Avenue to
stop traffic entering Fries Avenue.



 



   (e)   On Pier A Street at the southwesterly corner of Fries Avenue
to stop traffic entering Fries Avenue.



 



   (f)   On Fries Avenue at the southeasterly corner of Pier A Street
to stop traffic going north.



 



   (g)   On right hand side of roadway leading from berth 181 at Fries
Avenue to stop traffic entering Fries Avenue.



 



   (h)   On Fries Avenue at the intersection of Water Street to stop
traffic going north.



 



   (i)   On the westerly barrel of Avalon Boulevard and on the easterly
barrel of Avalon Boulevard at the northwesterly corners of Water Street to
stop traffic entering Water Street.



 



   (j)   On Yacht Street at the northwesterly corner of Canal Avenue to
stop traffic entering Canal Avenue.



 



   (k)   On Tuna Street on the northwesterly and southeasterly corners
of Terminal Way to stop traffic entering Terminal Way.



 



   (l)   On Sixth Street at the northeasterly corner of Harbor
Boulevard to stop traffic entering Harbor Boulevard.



 



   (m)   On Terminal Way at the northeasterly corner of Seaside Avenue
to stop traffic entering Seaside Avenue.



 



 



SEC. 87.01.  STOPS REQUIRED AT STOP INTERSECTIONS.



 



   Every driver of a vehicle on any Harbor Department roadway upon
approaching the entrance to any other roadway marked as a “stop”
intersection by a stop sign, flasher button, or the word STOP plainly painted
on the roadway shall stop such vehicle before proceeding to enter or cross
such other roadway.



 



 



SEC. 87.02.  PARKING NEAR FIRE HYDRANTS PROHIBITED.



 



   No person shall stop, park or leave standing any vehicle on any Harbor
Department roadway within fifteen (15) feet of any fire hydrant except when
such vehicle is attended by a licensed operator or chauffeur seated in the
front seat who can conveniently move such vehicle when necessary.



 



 



SEC. 87.03.  PARALLEL PARKING REQUIRED, EXCEPTIONS.



 



   No person shall stop, park or leave standing any vehicle on any Harbor
Department roadway other than parallel with the edge of the roadway heading
in the direction of traffic and with the right hand wheels of the vehicle
within eighteen (18) inches of the curb line or edge of the roadway except
upon those roadways which have been marked or signed by the Harbor Department
for angle parking, upon which roadway vehicles shall be parked at the angle
to the curb indicated by such marks or signs.



 



 



SEC. 87.04.  PARKING TIME LIMITED ON CERTAIN ROADWAYS.



 



   No person shall stop, park or leave standing any vehicle for a period
of time longer than one hour at any time between the hours of 7:00 A.M. and
6:00 P.M. in the following Harbor Department roadways, to-wit:



 



   (a)   Tuna Street.



 



   (b)   Terminal Way from South Seaside Avenue north of Terminal Way
to South Seaside Avenue south of Terminal Way.



 



 



SEC. 87.05.  PARKING PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN HARBOR DEPARTMENT ROADWAYS,
TO-WIT.



 



   No person shall stop, park or leave standing any vehicle at any time on
the following Harbor Department roadways, to-wit:



 



   (a)   Harbor Boulevard from Front Street to the northerly end of
Harbor Boulevard.



 



   (b)   Regan Street from Harbor Boulevard to the northerly end of
Regan Street.



 



   (c)   Keel Street from Harbor Boulevard to Regan Street.



 



   (d)   Badger Avenue (Roadway No. 1 in agreement with Los Angeles and
Salt Lake Railroad Company dated April 3, 1934), sometimes called Henry Ford
Avenue, from Anaheim Avenue to Dock Street.



 



   (e)   Dock Street from Badger Avenue (Henry Ford Avenue) to Mormon
Street.



 



   (f)   South Seaside Avenue from Altoona Place to Terminal Way.



 



   (g)   South Seaside Avenue from Terminal Way to United States
Government Reservation Point.



 



   (h)   The paved portions of Terminal Way from South Seaside Avenue
(northerly of Terminal Way) to Ferry Street.



 



   (i)   Ferry Street from Terminal Way to Seaside Avenue.



 



   (j)   The paved portions of Cannery Street from South Seaside Avenue
to Barracuda Street.



 



   (k)   Ways Street from Cannery Street to Sardine Street.



 



   (q)   Dock Street from Altoona Place to Terminal Way.



 



 



SEC. 87.06.  PARKING PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN PUBLIC STREETS IN THE HARBOR
DISTRICT.



 



   No person shall stop, park or leave standing any vehicle at any time on
the following public streets in the Harbor District of the City of Los
Angeles, to-wit:



 



   (a)   Mormon Street from Harbor Department Roadway named Dock Street
to south barrel of Ocean Avenue.



 



   (b)   South barrel of Ocean Avenue from Mormon Street to Harris
Place.



 



   (c)   Harris Place from south barrel of Ocean Avenue to Seaside
Avenue.



 



   (d)   North barrel of Ocean Avenue from Mormon Street to Altoona
Place.



 



   (e)   Altoona Place from north barrel of Ocean Avenue to Seaside
Avenue.



 



   (f)   Seaside Avenue from Altoona Place to Long Beach City boundary
line.



 



 



SEC. 87.07.  SPEED LAW AND SPEED LIMIT UPON HARBOR DEPARTMENT ROADWAYS.



 



   No person shall drive a motor vehicle or other vehicle upon any roadway
under the control and jurisdiction of the Board of Harbor Commissioners of
the City of Los Angeles in territory described in Ordinance No. 66,267 of
said city, approved April 5, 1930, herein called Harbor Department roadways,
at a speed greater than is reasonable or prudent having due regard for the
traffic on, and the surface and width of such roadway, and in no event at a
speed which endangers the safety of persons or property; provided that during
the present war emergency, it shall be unlawful for any person to drive a
motor vehicle or other vehicle on any such Harbor Department roadway at a
greater rate of speed than twenty-five (25) miles per hour. (Added by Ord.
No. 86,874, Eff. 10/6/42.)



 



 



SEC. 87.08.  VEHICLE CODE GOVERNS; TEMPORARY RULES AND REGULATIONS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 88,686, Eff. 9/30/44.)



 



   The rules and regulations for the operation of vehicles in the Harbor
District on roadways open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular
travel are contained in the Vehicle Code of the State of California and in
this Division “S”. The Board of Harbor Commissioners shall have the
power, as provided in Sec. 139(h) of the Charter of the City of Los Angeles,
to suspend, modify or amend temporarily any rule or regulation in this
Division “S” and to place in effect any temporary traffic rule or
regulation to the extent authorized by the Vehicle Code for periods not to
exceed ninety days.  (Amended by Ord. No. 145,964, Eff. 6/21/74.)



 



 



SEC. 87.09.  PARKING PROHIBITED ON OR WITHIN SIX (6) FEET OF ANY RAILROAD
TRACK ON LANDS UNDER THE JURISDICTION AND CONTROL OF THE BOARD OF HARBOR
COMMISSIONERS, AND PARKING AND STANDING PROHIBITED OR LIMITED TO SPECIFIC
TIME AND FOR LOADING AND UNLOADING ON HARBOR DEPARTMENT STREETS, ROADWAYS,
THOROUGHFARES, AND AREAS, OR PORTIONS THEREOF, WHEN POSTED AND PAINTED.



 



   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or stand any
vehicle for any purpose on or within six (6) feet of any railroad track on
lands under the jurisdiction and control of the Board of Harbor Commissioners
of the City of Los Angeles, except while any such vehicle is attended and
engaged in loading or unloading passengers or materials.



 



   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or stand any
vehicle for any purpose on any Harbor Department street, roadway,
thoroughfare, or area, or portion thereof, under the jurisdiction and control
of the Board of Harbor Commissioners of the City of Los Angeles at any time
when such street, roadway, thoroughfare, or area, or portion thereof, is
posted with any permanent or temporary sign or signs, placed, erected or
painted on any curb or area, by said Board of Harbor Commissioners or its
authorized agent, giving notice that no parking or standing is allowed
thereon.



 



   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or stand any
vehicle for any purpose for any period of time in excess of the parking or
standing time limit indicated by any sign posted as herein provided, on any
Harbor Department street, roadway, thoroughfare, or area, or portions
thereof, under the jurisdiction and control of the Board of Harbor
Commissioners of the City of Los Angeles when any such street, roadway,
thoroughfare, or area, or portion thereof, is posted with any permanent or
temporary sign or signs placed, erected or painted on any curb or area by
said Board of Harbor Commissioners or its authorized agent giving notice that
parking or standing is allowed thereon for a specified limited period of time.



 



   (d)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or stand any
vehicle for any purpose other than the loading and unloading of passengers or
materials, in any “Loading Zone” in any street, roadway, thoroughfare, or
area under the jurisdiction and control of the Board of Harbor Commissioners
of the City of Los Angeles. Loading Zones shall be indicated by a yellow
paint line stenciled with black letters “Loading Only” on any curb or
other appropriate place within such zones as may be established by the Board
of Harbor Commissioners of the City of Los Angeles. The permission hereby
granted to park or stand in “Loading Zones” for purposes of loading or
unloading passengers or materials shall not extend beyond the time necessary
therefor.



 



   (e)   Whenever the promotion and accommodation of commerce,
navigation or fishery may require that such parking or standing on any
street, roadway, thoroughfare, or area, or any portion thereof, under the
jurisdiction and control of the Board of Harbor Commissioners of the City of
Los Angeles, be prohibited or limited to a specified time or limited to
loading or unloading only, said Board of Harbor Commissioners, or its
authorized agent, shall cause such temporary or permanent signs to be
installed or painted, as it may deem necessary to give notice that such
parking or standing is prohibited, limited to a specified time, or limited to
unloading or unloading of passengers or materials only thereon.



 



   (f)   In the event of a fire or other emergency, or when authorized
by the General Manager, Police Officers of the City of Los Angeles, the Port
Warden and Harbor Guards may regulate and direct traffic and regulate and
control parking and standing on any street, roadway, thoroughfare, or area,
or portion thereof, under the jurisdiction and control of the Board of Harbor
Commissioners of the City of Los Angeles as conditions may require,
notwithstanding the provisions of DIVISION “S” of Chapter VIII of this
Code.



 



   (g)   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any
lawful order, direction or signal of a Police Officer, Special Officer, or
Harbor Guard, given under the authority of or pursuant to the provisions of
Division “S” of Chapter VIII of this Code. (Added by Ord. No. 108,057,
Eff. 10/15/56. )



 



   (h)   Whenever a parking space has been temporarily or permanently
marked on any Harbor Department street, road, thoroughfare or area, or
portion thereof, under the jurisdiction and control of the Board of Harbor
Commissioners of the City of Los Angeles, by painted lines or other
designation indicating a parking space allocated for a vehicle, it shall be
unlawful for any person to park or stand any vehicle thereon in such manner
as to occupy more than one, or portions of more than one, such marked parking
space. (Added by Ord. No. 108,057, Eff. 10/15/56. )



 



   (i)   Police Officers, Special Officers, and Harbor Guards are
hereby authorized to control parking or standing of vehicles and to direct
all traffic by voice, hand or signal whenever and wherever necessary in the
interests of safety or to expedite the flow of traffic on any Harbor
Department street, roadway, thoroughfare, or area, under the jurisdiction and
control of the Board of Harbor Commissioners of the City of Los Angeles. 
(Added by Ord. No. 109,161, Eff. 5/16/57.)



 



   (j)   Any Parking Control Checker or Traffic Officer as defined in
Section 80.00 of this chapter or any Security Officer as defined in Section
87.12 of this chapter is hereby authorized to issue parking notices as
provided by Division 17, Article 3 of the Vehicle Code whenever and wherever
necessary on any Harbor Department street, roadway, thoroughfare or area
under the jurisdiction and control of the Board of Harbor Commissioners of
the City of Los Angeles and to perform such other related duties as may be
required by the Chief of Police or the General Manager, Department of
Transportation, as appropriate.  (Amended by Ord. No. 168,783, Eff. 7/12/93,
Oper. 7/1/93.)



 



   (k)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle in any
public parking area except between the painted lines indicating where such
vehicle shall be parked.  (Added by Ord. No. 149,734, Eff. 7/3/77. )



 



   (l)   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove a vehicle from
any public parking area without first paying all fees or charges due for the
use of such parking space. (Added by Ord. No. 149,734, Eff. 7/3/77. )



 



   (m)   The Board of Harbor Commissioners or its authorized agents may
cause temporary or permanent signs to be posted providing for the removal, or
removal and impound, of any vehicle parked or left standing in violation of
this section.  (Added by Ord. No. 152,130, Eff. 5/5/79.)



 



 



SEC. 87.10.  ONE WAY TRAFFIC ON CERTAIN ROADWAYS IN THE HARBOR DISTRICT.



   (Amended  Ord. No. 116,089, Eff. 6/24/60. )



 



   When properly signposted by the Board of Harbor Commissioners, traffic
shall move only in the direction indicated on the following roadways within
the Harbor District:



 



   (1)   In a southerly direction on Sampson Way between Fourth Street
and Sixth Street;



 



   (2)   In a southwesterly direction on Dock Street between Altoona
Place and Terminal Way.



 



 



SEC. 87.11.  CAMPING AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES PROHIBITED FROM PARKING
BETWEEN 2:00 A.M. AND 6:00 A.M.



   (Added  Ord. No. 145,954, Eff. 6/21/74.)



 



   No person shall park any vehicle capable of human habitation for
camping or recreation purposes upon any premises or roadway in the Harbor
District between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. without the written
consent of the General Manager or the person having the right to use or
occupy the premises pursuant to a berth assignment, revocable permit, lease
or franchise.



 



 



SEC. 87.12.  SECURITY OFFICER.



   (Added by Ord. No. 167,193, Eff. 9/29/91.)



 



   Security Officer shall mean any person employed by the Harbor
Department having a civil service classification of “Security Officer.”



 



 



 



DIVISION “T”
OPERATION OF UNUSUAL TYPES OF VEHICLES CREATING TRAFFIC PROBLEMS



 



 



Section



87.53   Regulation of Mobile Billboard Advertising Displays.



87.54   Regulation of Advertising Signs on Motor Vehicles Parked or Left
Standing on City Streets or Public Lands.



87.55   Regulation of Vehicles Containing "For Sale" Signs or Placards.



87.69   Searchlights, Generators and Floodlights in Streets – Permit
Required.



 



 



SEC. 87.53.  REGULATION OF MOBILE BILLBOARD ADVERTISING DISPLAYS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 185,145, Eff. 8/31/17.)



 



 



   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a mobile billboard
advertising display, as defined under Section 395.5 of the California Vehicle
Code, either standing alone or attached to a motor vehicle, on any public
street or public lands in the City of Los Angeles.



 



   (a)   Mobile Billboard Advertising Display Definition.  Section
395.5 of the California Vehicle Code applies to this chapter with respect to
the definition of a mobile billboard advertising display.  Section 395.5 of
the California Vehicle Code is incorporated by reference and states: 
"mobile billboard advertising display" means an advertising display that is
attached to a mobile, non-motorized vehicle, device, or bicycle that carries,
pulls, or transports a sign or billboard, and is for the primary purpose of
advertising.



 



   (b)   Removal of Mobile Billboard Advertising Displays Authorized. 
Any peace officer or any regularly employed and salaried employee of the City
who is authorized to engage and is engaged in directing traffic or enforcing
parking laws and regulations may remove, or cause to be removed, the mobile
billboard advertising display, and anything that the mobile billboard display
is attached to including a motor vehicle, located within the territorial
limits of the City when the mobile billboard advertising display is found
upon any public street or any public lands, if the following requirements are
satisfied:



 



   1.   Pursuant to Section 22651, Subdivision (v), of the California
Vehicle Code, when a non-motorized vehicle is the mobile billboard
advertising display that violates this section, the non-motorized vehicle,
and anything that the non-motorized vehicle is attached to including a motor
vehicle, may be removed if the registered owner of the vehicle was previously
issued a warning citation for the same offense and, if a first-time offender,
the warning citation was issued at least 24 hours prior to the removal of the
vehicle.  The warning citation shall advise the registered owner of the
vehicle that he or she may be subject to penalties upon a subsequent
violation of the ordinance that may include the removal of the vehicle.



 



   2.   Pursuant to Section 21100, Subdivision (m), of the California
Vehicle Code, when a device or bicycle is the mobile billboard advertising
display that violates this section, the device or bicycle may be removed 24
hours after the posting of a one-time warning notice on the device or
bicycle.  No warning notice is required before removal if the device or
bicycle was parked or placed by a person, or parked or placed at the
direction of a person, who had previously received a warning notice.  The
warning notice shall state that no further warning notice is required prior
to removal of a device or bicycle in violation of this section, including if
found at any other location in the City in violation of this section, and
that subsequent violations of this section may subject the owner to
penalties.  If the device or bicycle is removed, a removal notice shall be
posted as close to the location of the removed device or bicycle as
reasonable.  The removal notice shall state that the device or bicycle has
been removed for violating this section, provide information on how the owner
can claim the device or bicycle, and state that the City may dispose of the
device or bicycle after 90 days of storage.



 



   (c)   Post-Storage Hearing for Impounded Non-Motorized Vehicle. 
Section 22852 of the California Vehicle Code applies to this section with
respect to the removal of any non-motorized vehicle that is a mobile
billboard advertising display.  Section 22852 is incorporated by reference
as if set forth in full herein and provides, in summary, that whenever an
authorized employee of the City directs the storage of a vehicle, the City
shall direct the storage operator to provide the vehicle's registered and
legal owner(s) of record, or their agent(s), with the opportunity for a
post-storage hearing to determine the validity of the storage.  Notice of
the storage shall be mailed or personally delivered to the registered and
legal owner(s) within 48 hours, excluding weekends, as specifically provided
for under Section 22852 of the California Vehicle Code.  To receive a
post-storage hearing, the owner(s) of record, or their agent(s), must request
a hearing in person, in writing or by telephone within ten days of the date
appearing on the notice.  The City may authorize its own officer or employee
to conduct the hearing as long as the hearing officer is not the same person
who directed the storage of the vehicle.



 



   (d)   Violation – Penalties.  After the initial warning citation
with respect to a non-motorized vehicle, or a warning notice with respect to
any device or bicycle, a subsequent offense of this section is a misdemeanor,
punishable upon conviction by a fine of not less $250, nor more than $1,000,
or by imprisonment in the county jail for not more than six months, or by
both fine and imprisonment.  The City Council may establish from time to
time by resolution an increase in the amount of the fine.



 



   (e)   Severability.  If any subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase
of this section is for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by a
court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity
of the remaining portions of this ordinance.  The City Council hereby
declares that it would have adopted this section, and each and every
subsection, sentence, clause and phrase thereof not declared invalid or
unconstitutional, without regard to whether any portion of the ordinance
would be subsequently declared invalid or unconstitutional.



 



 



SEC. 87.54.  REGULATION OF ADVERTISING SIGNS ON MOTOR VEHICLES PARKED OR
LEFT STANDING ON CITY STREETS OR PUBLIC LANDS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 182,516, Eff. 4/30/13.)



 



   A motor vehicle may contain advertising signs that are painted directly
upon or are permanently affixed to the body of, an integral part of, or
fixture of a motor vehicle for permanent decoration, identification, or
display and that do not extend beyond the overall length, width, or height of
the vehicle.  "Permanently affixed" means any of the following:  (a)
painted directly on the body of a motor vehicle; (b) applied as a decal on
the body of a motor vehicle; (c) placed in a location on the body of a motor
vehicle that was specifically designed by a vehicle manufacturer as defined
in California Vehicle Code Section 672 and licensed pursuant to California
Vehicle Code Section 11701, in compliance with both state and federal law or
guidelines, for the express purpose of containing an advertising sign.  A
license plate frame installed in compliance with California Vehicle Code
Section 5201 may contain an advertisement on that license plate frame and/or
a paper advertisement contained within the license plate frame if the paper
advertisement was issued by a motor vehicle dealer.  A motor vehicle in
violation of this Section may be impounded pursuant to California Vehicle
Code Section 22651(w), Subsections (1) and (2).



 



   (a)   Post Storage Impound Hearing.  Section 22852 of the
California Vehicle Code applies to this Section with respect to the removal
of any motor vehicle pursuant to California Vehicle Code Section
22651(w)(1).  Section 22852 is incorporated by reference as if set forth in
full herein and provides, in summary, that whenever an authorized employee of
the City directs the storage of a vehicle, the City shall direct the storage
operator to provide the vehicle's registered and legal owner(s) of record, or
their agent(s), with the opportunity for a post-storage hearing to determine
the validity of the storage.  Notice of the storage shall be mailed or
personally delivered to the registered and legal owner(s) within 48 hours,
excluding weekends, as specifically provided for under Section 22852 of the
California Vehicle Code.  To receive a post-storage hearing, the owner(s) of
record, or their agent(s), must request a hearing, in person, in writing or
by telephone, within ten days of the date appearing on the notice.  The City
may authorize its own officer or employee to conduct the hearing as long as
the hearing officer is not the same person who directed the storage of the
vehicle.



 



   (b)   Violation – Penalties.  After the initial warning citation,
a subsequent offense of this Section is a misdemeanor, punishable upon
conviction by a fine of not less than Two Hundred Fifty Dollars ($250.00),
nor more than One Thousand Dollars ($1,000.00), or by imprisonment in the
county jail for not more than six months, or by both fine and imprisonment. 
The City Council may establish from time to time by resolution an increase in
the amount of the fine.



 



   (c)   Severability.  If any subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase
of this Section is for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by a
court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity
of the remaining portions of this Section.  The City Council hereby declares
that it would have adopted this Section, and each and every subsection,
sentence, clause and phrase thereof not declared invalid or unconstitutional,
without regard to whether any portion of the ordinance would be subsequently
declared invalid or unconstitutional.



 



 



SEC. 87.55.  REGULATION OF VEHICLES CONTAINING "FOR SALE" SIGNS OR PLACARDS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 181,632, Eff. 4/12/11.)



 



   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle on the streets
or public lands in the City of Los Angeles listed in Subdivision (a) of this
section for the purpose of advertising to the public the private sale of that
vehicle. For purposes of this ordinance, a "for sale" sign shall mean a
visible sign, placard or marking placed on either the exterior or interior of
the vehicle for the primary purpose of advertising the vehicle for sale,
which contains, but is not limited to, any of the following in English or any
other language: a telephone number or other contact information; the words
"for sale", or "best offer", or "obo", or a dollar amount or other currency
amount.  (Amended by Ord. No. 185,239, Eff. 11/7/17.)



 



   (a)   City Streets or Public Lands Where Vehicle Sales Prohibited. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 183,396, Eff. 1/21/15.)



 



   1.   On Los Feliz Boulevard between Interstate 5 and Western Avenue.



 



   2.   On Franklin Avenue between Hillhurst Avenue and Western Avenue.



 



   3.   Normandie Avenue between 15th Street and the 10 Freeway.



 



   4.   "Little" Normandie Avenue south of Venice Boulevard.



 



   5.   Washington Boulevard between South Kingsley Drive and South
Catalina Street.



 



   6.   The north side of Fountain Avenue between Lyman Place and
Virgil Avenue.



 



   7.   Both sides of Virgil Avenue between Fountain Avenue and Burns
Avenue.



 



   8.   Both sides of Santa Monica Boulevard between Virgil Avenue and
Hoover Street.



 



   9.   The east side of Hoover Street between Santa Monica Boulevard
and Hyperion Avenue.



 



   10.   Both sides of Hoover Street between Hyperion Avenue and Temple
Street.



 



   11.   On Van Nuys Boulevard between Woodman Avenue and Interstate 5.



 



   12.   On Woodman Avenue between Roscoe Boulevard and Van Nuys
Boulevard.



 



   13.   On Osborne Street between Woodman Avenue and Interstate 5.



 



   14.   Both sides of North Lorena Street between East Cesar Chavez
Avenue and First Street.



 



   15.   Both sides of Evergreen Avenue between East Cesar Chavez
Avenue and First Street.



 



   16.   Both sides of East Cesar Chavez Avenue between Evergreen
Avenue and North Lorena Street.



 



   17.   Both sides of First Street between Evergreen Avenue and North
Lorena Street.



 



   18.   Gage Avenue between S. Central Avenue and Avalon Boulevard.



 



   19.   Vermont Avenue between West 135th Street and West 140th
Street. (Added by Ord. No. 183,834, Eff. 9/4/15.)



 



   20.   Both sides of Sherman Way between Winnetka Avenue and Corbin
Avenue.  (Added by Ord. No. 183,957, Eff. 11/18/15.)



 



   21.   The east side of Sepulveda Boulevard between San Jose Street
and Chatsworth Street.  (Added by Ord. No. 183,957, Eff. 11/18/15.)



 



   22.   Both sides of Hubbard Street between Glenoaks Boulevard and
Herrick Avenue.  (Added by Ord. No. 183,957, Eff. 11/18/15.)



 



   23.   Both sides of Van Nuys Boulevard between Remick Avenue and
Laurel Canyon Boulevard.  (Added by Ord. No. 183,957, Eff. 11/18/15.)



 



   24.   Normandie Avenue from Martin Luther King, Jr. Boulevard to the
I-10 Freeway.  (Added by Ord. No. 184,351, Eff. 7/26/16.)



 



   25.   Both sides of Sherman Way between Winnetka Avenue and Corbin
Avenue.  (Added by Ord. No. 184,460, Eff. 9/12/16.)



 



   26.   The east side of Sepulveda Boulevard between San Jose Street
and Chatsworth Street.  (Added by Ord. No. 184,460, Eff. 9/12/16.)



 



   27.   Both sides of Hubbard Street between Glenoaks Boulevard and
Herrick Avenue.  (Added by Ord. No. 184,460, Eff. 9/12/16.)



 



   28.   Both sides of Van Nuys Boulevard between Remick Avenue and
Laurel Canyon Boulevard.  (Added by Ord. No. 184,460, Eff. 9/12/16.)



 



   29.   South side of West Redondo Beach Boulevard between South
Vermont Avenue and the I-110 Freeway.  (Added by Ord. No. 184,461, Eff.
9/12/16.)



 



   30.   Both sides of South Western Avenue between West Manchester
Avenue and West Century Boulevard.  (Added by Ord. No. 184,824, Eff.
3/22/17.)



 



   31.   Both sides of Normandie Avenue between West Exposition
Boulevard and West Vernon Avenue.  (Added by Ord. No. 184,825, Eff. 3/22/17.)



 



   32.   Both sides of Normandie Avenue between West 42nd Street and
West Vernon Avenue.  (Added by Ord. No. 185,239, Eff. 11/7/17.)



 



   33.   Both sides of Venice Boulevard between South Vermont Avenue
and Normandie Avenue. (Added by Ord. No. 185,239, Eff. 11/7/17.)



 



   34.   The east side of Irolo Street between Normandie Avenue and San
Marino Street, and the west side of Normandie Avenue between San Marino
Street and Normandie Avenue/Irolo Street.  (Added by Ord. No. 185,989, Eff.
2/14/19.)



 



   35.   The east side of South Western Avenue (State Route 213) with
the City of Los Angeles between West 182nd Street and West Paseo Del Mar. 
(Added by Ord. No. 185,989, Eff. 2/14/19.)



 



   36.   Both sides of Compton Avenue between East Century Boulevard
and East 103rd Street.  (Added by Ord. No. 185,989, Eff. 2/14/19.)



 



   37.   Both sides of 10th Avenue between the 1900 through 2200
blocks.  (Added by Ord. No. 185,989, Eff. 2/14/19.)



 



   38.   Both sides of East Anaheim Street between South Figueroa and
Alameda Streets.  (Added by Ord. No. 186,440, Eff. 11/21/19.)



 



   39.   Both sides of Island Avenue between West I and West Anaheim
Streets.  (Added by Ord. No. 186,440, Eff. 11/21/19.)



 



   40.   Both sides of North Lagoon Avenue between West Sandison Street
and Pacific Coast Highway.  (Added by Ord. No. 186,440, Eff. 11/21/19.)



 



   The City may amend this section, after conducting a public hearing, to
include additional streets or public lands.



 



   (b)   Authorization for Removal of a Vehicle Advertising the Private
Sale of that Vehicle.  Pursuant to Section 22651.9, Subdivision (a)(4), of
the California Vehicle Code, the City authorizes any peace officer, as
defined in Chapter 4.5 (commencing with Section 830) of Title 3 of Part 2 of
the Penal Code, or any regularly employed and salaried employee, who is
engaged in directing traffic or enforcing parking laws and regulations of the
City, to remove a vehicle located within its territorial limits which is in
violation of this Section, if all of the following requirements are satisfied:



 



   1.   Because of a sign or placard on the vehicle, it appears that
the primary purpose of parking the vehicle at that location listed in
Subdivision (a) of this Section is to advertise to the public the private
sale of that vehicle.



 



   2.   Within the past 30 days, the vehicle is known to have been
previously issued a notice of parking violation, under this Section, which
was accompanied by a notice containing all of the following:



 



   a.   A warning that an additional parking violation may result in
the impoundment of the vehicle.



 



   b.   A warning that the vehicle may be impounded pursuant to this
Section, even if moved to another street subject to this Section so long as
the signs or placards offering the vehicle for sale remain on the vehicle.



 



   c.   A listing of the streets or public lands subject to this
Section.



 



   3.   The notice of parking violation was issued at least 24 hours
prior to removal of the vehicle.



 



   (c)   Post-Storage Impound Hearing.  Section 22852 of the
California Vehicle Code applies to this Section with respect to the removal
of any vehicle in violation of this Section.  Section 22852 is incorporated
by reference as if set forth in full herein and provides, in summary, that
whenever an authorized member of a public agency directs the storage of a
vehicle, the City shall direct the storage operator to provide the vehicle's
registered and legal owner(s) of record, or their agent(s), with the
opportunity for a post-storage hearing to determine the validity of the
storage.  Notice of the storage shall be mailed or personally delivered to
the registered and legal owner(s) within 48 hours, excluding weekends, as
specifically provided for under Section 22852 of the California Vehicle
Code.  To receive a post-storage hearing, the owner(s) of record, or their
agent(s), must request a hearing in person, in writing, or by telephone
within ten days of the date appearing on the notice.  The City may authorize
its own officer or employee to conduct the hearing as long as the hearing
officer is not the same person who directed the storage of the vehicle.



 



   (d)   Violation – Penalties.  A first violation of this Section
is punishable by a fine of $100.  A second violation of this Section is
punishable by a fine of $250.  A third violation and any subsequent
violations of this Section are punishable by a fine of $500.  The City
Council may increase the amount of the fines from time to time.



 



   A person shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for each and
every day or portion thereof during which any violation of this Section is
committed, continued or permitted.



 



   (e)   Severability.  If any section, subsection, sentence, clause,
or phrase of this ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid or
unconstitutional by a decision of any court of any competent jurisdiction,
such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this
ordinance.  The City Council hereby declares that it would have passed this
ordinance, and each and every section, subsection, sentence, clause and
phrase thereof not declared invalid or unconstitutional without regard to
whether any portion of the ordinance would be subsequently declared invalid
or unconstitutional.



 



 



SEC. 87.69.  SEARCHLIGHTS, GENERATORS AND FLOODLIGHTS IN STREETS – PERMIT
REQUIRED.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 134,523, Eff. 7/17/67.)



 



   No person shall maintain any searchlight, generator or floodlight, in
upon, above, along, or across any street except during such days and hours as
are stated on a permit therefor issued by the Department, or as otherwise
provided by law.



 



   (a)   Power of Department to Grant Permits. The Department is hereby
authorized to grant such permits upon written application therefor.



 



   (b)   Application – Contents of.  The written application above
referred to shall contain a description of the appliance proposed to be
maintained, the location and the purposes for which it will be maintained or
used.



 



   (c)   Permit – Contents of.  Any permit granted under this
section shall specify:



 



   1.   The nature of the appliance;



 



   2.   The purpose for which it is to be used;



 



   3.   The location where it will be maintained;



 



   4.   The time during which it will be maintained or used, stating
the days and hours permitted.



 



   (d)   Fees.  No permit granted under this section shall be issued
until the person applying for it shall have paid to the Department a minimum
fee of $3.30 per day, or fraction thereof, per searchlight, floodlight or
generator equipment. (Amended by Ord. No. 137,137, Eff. 9/29/68.)



 



   (e)   Insurance Required.  Before any permit is issued, the
applicant shall file with the Department, and thereafter keep in full force
and effect a policy of insurance in such form as the Department may deem
proper, executed by an insurance company approved by the Department insuring
the public against injury, loss or damage that may result to any person or
property from the use, maintenance or operation of the appliance for which
the permit is granted, in the amount of not less than $50,000 for injury to
one or more persons in any one accident, and $5,000 for injury or destruction
of property in any one accident.



 



   (f)   The granting of issuance of a permit hereunder shall not
relieve the operator of the equipment or appliance from the duty to observe
all laws, ordinances and regulations applicable thereto.



 



   (g)   A violation of this section shall be punishable in Section
11.00(m) of this Code.  (Added by Ord. No. 168,782, Eff. 7/12/93.)



 



 



SEC. 87.70.  VIOLATIONS OF THIS ARTICLE – PENALTY.



   (Repealed by Ord. No. 168,782, Eff. 7/12/93.)



 



 



 



DIVISION “U”
PARKING ON PUBLIC STREETS AND PARKING ON PUBLICLY OWNED OFF-STREET PARKING
FACILITIES



 




(Div. “U” Added by Ord: No. 94,748.)




 



 



Section



 




A.  Parking on Public Streets




 



88.00   Parking Meter Zones and Rates Established.



88.00.1   Commercial Loading Zone Rates Established for Vehicles with
Personal Parking Meters.



88.00.2   Demand-Based Parking Meter Rates Established.



88.01   Installation of Parking Meters Authorized.



88.01.1   Authority to Extend Time and to Charge for Parking in Commercial
Loading Zones, Time Limit Zones and No Parking Zones.



88.02   Maintenance and Repair of Parking Meters.



88.02.1   Sale, Maintenance, Repair and Collection of Personal Parking
Meters.



88.03   Parking Meter Spaces to Be Indicated and Maintained.



88.03.1   Commercial Loading Zones, Time Limit Zones and No Parking Zones
– When Personal Parking Meters Required.



88.04   Time of Parking in Parking Meter Zones.



88.05   Parking Meters – Times for Operation.



88.05.1   Personal Parking Meters – Hours of Operation.



88.06   Operation of Parking Meters.



88.06.1   Operation of Personal Parking Meter.



88.07   Parking Meters – Payment.



88.08   Collection of Cash From Parking Meters.



88.08.1   Collection of Personal Parking Meter Revenue.



88.10   Parking Meters and Parking Meter Standards Not to Be Used for
Certain Purposes.



88.11   Improper Use or Misuse of Parking Meters.



88.12   Extending Parking Time for a Parking Meter Space.



88.13   Failure to Pay for a Parking Meter Space.



88.13.1   Failure to Activate Personal Parking Meter.



 




B.  Parking on Publicly Owned Off-street Parking Facilities




 



88.50   Public Off-street Parking Facilities and Regulatory Signs.



88.51   Installation of Off-street Parking Meters Authorized.



88.52   Maintenance and Repair of Off-street Parking Meters.



88.53   Off-street Parking Meter Spaces to Be Indicated and Maintained.



88.54   Time of Parking in Off-street Parking Meter Zones.



88.55   Off-street Parking Meters – Times for Operation.



88.56   Operation of Off-street Parking Meters.



88.57   Off-street Parking Meters – Payment.



88.58   Collection of Cash from Off-street Parking Meters.



88.60   Off-street Parking Meters and Off-street Parking Meter Standards
Not to Be Used for Certain Purposes.



88.61   Improper Use or Misuse of Off-street Parking Meters.



88.62   Extending Parking Time for an Off-street Parking Meter Space.



88.63   Failure to Pay for an Off-street Parking Meter Space.



88.64   Failure to Obey Off-street Parking Signs.



88.65   Designation of Parking Spaces for the Exclusive Use of Physically
Handicapped Persons.



88.66   Regulation of Electric Charging Station Spaces on City Streets and
Publicly Owned Parking Facilities.



 



 



“A.  PARKING ON PUBLIC STREETS”



 



 



SEC. 88.00.  PARKING METER ZONES AND RATES ESTABLISHED.



   (Amended in Entirety by Ord. No. 182,843, Eff. 2/10/14.)



 



   The following parking meter zones and hourly rates therefor are hereby
established.  Payment of the rates established in this section shall be in
accordance with the appropriate schedules established by the Board.



 



   1.   Van Nuys Parking Meter Zone - $1.00 per hour.  This zone
includes:



 



   (A)   All streets within the area bound by the following street
segments:



 



   (1)   Sherman Way from Hazeltine Avenue to Kester Avenue.



 



   (2)   Hazeltine Avenue from Sherman Way to Magnolia Boulevard.



 



   (3)   Magnolia Boulevard from Hazeltine Avenue to Kester Avenue.



 



   (4)   Kester Avenue from Magnolia Boulevard to Sherman Way.



 



   (B)   All boundary street segments set forth in (A) above, except
Magnolia Boulevard.



 



   2.   North Hollywood Parking Meter Zone - $1.00 per hour.  This
zone includes:



 



   (A)   All streets within the area bound by the following street
segments:



 



   (1)   Burbank Boulevard from Tujunga Avenue to Cahuenga Boulevard.



 



   (2)   Cahuenga Boulevard from Burbank Boulevard to the Los Angeles
River.



 



   (3)   The Los Angeles River from Cahuenga Boulevard to Tujunga
Avenue.



 



   (4)   Tujunga Avenue from the Los Angeles River to Burbank Boulevard.



 



   (B)   All boundary street segments set forth in (A) above.



 



   (C)   The following street segments:



 



   (1)   Moorpark Street from Tujunga Avenue to Kraft Avenue.



 



   (2)   Woodbridge Street from Tujunga Avenue to Kraft Avenue.



 



   3.   Sunset-Gardner Parking Meter Zone - $1.00 per hour.  This zone
includes:



 



   (A)   The following street segments:



 



   (1)   Sunset Boulevard from La Brea Avenue to the City limits west
of Havenhurst Drive.



 



   (2)   All streets intersecting Sunset Boulevard between La Brea
Avenue and the City limits west of Havenhurst Drive, from Sunset Boulevard to
the end of the contiguous commercial properties northerly and southerly
thereof.



 



   4.   Vermont-Hollywood Parking Meter Zone - $1.00 per hour.  This
zone includes:



 



   (A)   All streets within the area bound by the following street
segments:



 



   (1)   Hollywood Boulevard from Edgemont Street to Hillhurst Avenue.



 



   (2)   Edgemont Street from Hollywood Boulevard to Los Feliz
Boulevard.



 



   (3)   Los Feliz Boulevard from Edgemont Street to Commonwealth
Avenue.



 



   (4)   Commonwealth Avenue from Los Feliz Boulevard to Prospect
Avenue.



 



   (5)   Prospect Avenue from Commonwealth Avenue to Hillhurst Avenue.



 



   (6)   Hillhurst Avenue from Prospect Avenue to Hollywood Boulevard.



 



   (B)   All boundary street segments set forth in (A) above.



 



   5.   Watts Parking Meter Zone - $1.00 per hour.  This zone includes:



 



   (A)   The following street segments:



 



   (1)   The west side of Wilmington Avenue from East 102nd Street to
East 103rd Street.



 



   (2)   Beach Street from 102nd Street to 103rd Street.



 



   (3)   Graham Avenue from 103rd Street to 103rd Place.



 



   (4)   The west side of Grandee Avenue from 103rd Street to 103rd
Place.



 



   (5)   103rd Street from Wilmington Avenue to the alley west of
Compton Avenue.



 



   6.   Wilshire-Western Parking Meter Zone.



 



   (I)   Sub-Zone I - $1.00 per hour.  Sub-Zone I includes:



 



   (A)   The following street segments:



 



   (1)   Western Avenue from:



 



   (a)   Melrose Avenue to 6th Street.



 



   (b)   7th Street to Venice Boulevard.



 



   (2)   All streets intersecting Western Avenue, as set forth in (A1)
above, from Western Avenue to the end of the contiguous commercial properties
easterly and westerly thereof.



 



   (3)   Beverly Boulevard from Manhattan Place to Vermont Avenue.



 



   (4)   All streets intersecting Beverly Boulevard between Western
Avenue and Vermont Avenue, from Beverly Boulevard to the end of the
contiguous commercial properties northerly and southerly thereof.



 



   (5)   1st Street from Western Avenue to Oxford Avenue.



 



   (6)   2nd Street from Manhattan Place to Oxford Avenue.



 



   (7)   3rd Street from Manhattan Place to Kenmore Avenue.



 



   (8)   All streets intersecting 3rd Street between Western Avenue and
Kenmore Avenue, from 3rd Street to the end of the contiguous commercial
properties northerly and southerly thereof.



 



   (9)   5th Street from Western Avenue to Oxford Avenue.



 



   (10)   6th Street from Gramercy Place to Western Avenue.



 



   (11)   All streets intersecting 6th Street between St. Andrews Place
and Kenmore Avenue, including Kenmore Avenue, from 6th Street to the end of
the contiguous commercial properties northerly thereof.



 



   (12)   Wilshire Boulevard from Crenshaw Boulevard to Western Avenue.



 



   (13)   All streets intersecting Wilshire Boulevard between Crenshaw
Boulevard and Western Avenue, from Wilshire Boulevard to the end of the
contiguous commercial properties northerly and southerly thereof.



 



   (14)   St. Andrews Place from Wilshire Boulevard to Ingraham Street.



 



   (15)   Windsor Boulevard from Wilshire Boulevard to the end of the
contiguous commercial properties northerly thereof.



 



   (16)   Ingraham Street from St. Andrews Place to Western Avenue.



 



   (17)   7th Street from Manhattan Place to Western Avenue.



 



   (18)   8th Street from Manhattan Place to Kenmore Avenue.



 



   (19)   All streets intersecting 8th Street between Western Avenue
and Kenmore Avenue, including Kenmore Avenue, from 8th Street to the end of
the contiguous commercial properties northerly and southerly thereof.



 



   (20)   Manhattan Place from 8th Street to 9th Street.



 



   (21)   9th Street from:



 



   (a)   Crenshaw Boulevard to the end of the contiguous commercial
properties easterly thereof.



 



   (b)   Manhattan Place to Western Avenue.



 



   (22)   James M. Wood Boulevard from Western Avenue to Oxford Avenue.



 



   (23)   San Marino Avenue Street from Manhattan Place to Oxford
Avenue.



 



   (24)   Olympic Boulevard from Victoria Avenue to Kenmore Avenue.



 



   (25)   All streets intersecting Olympic Boulevard between Victoria
Avenue and Kenmore Avenue, including Kenmore Avenue, from Olympic Boulevard
to the end of the contiguous commercial properties northerly and southerly
thereof.



 



   (26)   Crenshaw Boulevard from 9th Street to Country Club Drive.



 



   (27)   Country Club Drive from Victoria Avenue to the end of the
contiguous commercial properties east of Crenshaw Boulevard.



 



   (28)   10th Street from Wilton Place to Olympic Boulevard.



 



   (29)   lrolo Street from San Marino Street to Normandie Avenue.



 



   (30)   Connecticut Street from Western Avenue to Oxford Avenue.



 



   (31)   Pico Boulevard from St. Andrews Place to Fedora Street.



 



   (32)   All streets intersecting Pico Boulevard between St. Andrews
Place and Fedora Street, including St. Andrews Place, from Pico Boulevard to
the end of the contiguous commercial properties northerly and southerly
thereof.



 



   (33)   The west side of Fedora Street from Pico Boulevard to the end
of the contiguous commercial properties northerly and southerly thereof.



 



   (34)   Oxford Avenue from:



 



   (a)   1st Street to the end of the contiguous commercial properties
northerly thereof.



 



   (b)   2nd Street to 3rd Street.



 



   (c)   5th Street to the end of the contiguous commercial properties
northerly thereof.



 



   (d)   James M. Wood Boulevard to San Marino Street.



 



   (35)   Venice Boulevard from Manhattan Place to Oxford Avenue.



 



   (II)   Sub-Zone II - $1.00 per hour.  Sub-Zone II includes:



 



   (A)   All streets within the area bound by the following street
segments:



 



   (1)   6th Street from Western Avenue to Kenmore Avenue.



 



   (2)   Kenmore Avenue from 6th Street to Wilshire Boulevard.



 



   (3)   Wilshire Boulevard from Kenmore Avenue to Mariposa Avenue.



 



   (4)   Mariposa Avenue from Wilshire Boulevard to 7th Street.



 



   (5)   7th Street from Mariposa Avenue to Western Avenue.



 



   (6)   Western Avenue from 6th Street to 7th Street.



 



   (B)   All boundary street segments set forth in (A) above.



 



   7.   Highland Park Parking Meter Zone - $1.00 per hour.  This zone
includes:



 



   (A)   All streets within the area bound by the following street
segments:



 



   (1)   East Avenue 50 from the Pasadena Freeway to West Avenue 50.



 



   (2)   West Avenue 50 from East Avenue 50 to Monte Vista Street.



 



   (3)   Monte Vista Street from West Avenue 50 to West Avenue 61.



 



   (4)   West Avenue 61 from Monte Vista Street to Aldama Street.



 



   (5)   Aldama Street from West Avenue 61 to York Boulevard.



 



   (6)   York Boulevard from Aldama Street to the Pasadena Freeway.



 



   (7)   The Pasadena Freeway from York Boulevard to East Avenue 50.



 



   (B)   All boundary street segments set forth in (A) above, except
the Pasadena Freeway.



 



   8.   Wilshire-Alvarado Parking Meter Zone.



 



   (I)   Sub-Zone I - $1.00 per hour.  Sub-Zone I includes:



 



   (A)   The following street segments:



 



   (1)   Alvarado Street from:



 



   (a)   Valley Street to 6th Street.



 



   (b)   7th Street to Westlake Avenue.



 



   (2)   Valley Street from Lake Street to Mountain View Street.



 



   (3)   Miramar Street from:



 



   (a)   Grand View Street to Lake Street.



 



   (b)   Alvarado Street to Mountain View Street.



 



   (4)   3rd Street from Grand View Street to Alvarado Street.



 



   (5)   Ocean View Avenue from Grand View Street to Lake Street.



 



   (6)   Lake Street from Valley Street to Ocean View Avenue.



 



   (7)   Grand View Street from Miramar Street to Ocean View Avenue.



 



   (8)   All streets intersecting 6th Street between Benton Way and
Burlington Avenue, including Benton Way, from 6th Street to the end of the
contiguous commercial properties northerly thereof.



 



   (9)   All streets intersecting 7th Street between Hoover Street and
Burlington Avenue, from 7th Street to the end of the contiguous commercial
properties southerly thereof.



 



   (10)   8th Street from Park View Street to Burlington Avenue.



 



   (11)   All streets intersecting 8th Street between Park View Street
and Burlington Avenue, from 8th Street to the end of the contiguous
commercial properties northerly and southerly thereof.



 



   (12)   James M. Wood Boulevard from Lake Street to Westlake Street.



 



   (13)   Lake Street from James M. Wood Boulevard to the end of the
contiguous commercial properties southerly thereof.



 



   (14)   Westlake Avenue from the end of the contiguous commercial
properties north of James M. Wood Boulevard to the end of the contiguous
commercial properties south of Olympic Boulevard.



 



   (15)   Olympic Boulevard from Hoover Street to Burlington Avenue.



 



   (16)   All streets intersecting Olympic Boulevard between Hoover
Street and Burlington Avenue, from Olympic Boulevard to the end of the
contiguous commercial properties northerly and southerly thereof.



 



   (17)   11th Street from Alvarado Street to the end of the contiguous
commercial properties easterly and westerly thereof.



 



   (18)   12th Street from Alvarado Street to the end of the contiguous
commercial properties easterly and westerly thereof.



 



   (19)   Pico Boulevard from Hoover Street to L.A. Live Way.



 



   (20)   All streets intersecting Pico Boulevard between Hoover Street
and Bond Street, from Pico Boulevard to the end of the contiguous commercial
properties northerly and southerly thereof.



 



   (21)   Union Avenue from 12th Place to the end of the contiguous
commercial properties south of Pico Boulevard.



 



   (22)   Albany Street from 12th Place to the end of the contiguous
commercial properties south of Pico Boulevard.



 



   (II)   Sub-Zone II - $1.00 per hour.  Sub-Zone II includes:



 



   (A)   All streets within the area bound by the following street
segments:



 



   (1)   6th Street from Benton Way to Burlington Avenue.



 



   (2)   Burlington Avenue from 6th Street to 7th Street.



 



   (3)   7th Street from Burlington Avenue to Hoover Street.



 



   (4)   Hoover Street from 7th Street to La Fayette Park Place.



 



   (5)   La Fayette Park Place from 7th Street to 6th Street.



 



   (B)   The following street segments:



 



   (1)   6th Street from Benton Way to Burlington Avenue.



 



   (2)   7th Street from Lafayette Park Place to Burlington Avenue.



 



   9.   York Boulevard Parking Meter Zone - $1.00 per hour.  This zone
includes:



 



   (A)   The following street segments:



 



   (1)   York Boulevard from Avenue 50 to Avenue 52.



 



   (2)   Avenue 50 from Lincoln Avenue to Meridian Street.



 



   (3)   Avenue 51 from Lincoln Avenue to Meridian Street.



 



   10.   Studio City Parking Meter Zone.



 



   (I)   Sub-Zone I - $1.00 per hour.  Sub-Zone I includes:



 



   (A)   All streets within the area bound by the following street
segments:



 



   (1)   Ventura Boulevard from Fulton Avenue to Whitsett Avenue.



 



   (2)   Fulton Avenue from Ventura Boulevard to the Los Angeles River.



 



   (3)   The Los Angeles River from Fulton Avenue to Whitsett Avenue.



 



   (4)   Whitsett Avenue from the Los Angeles River to Ventura
Boulevard.



 



   (B)   The following street segments:



 



   (1)   Ventura Boulevard from Fulton Avenue to Whitsett Avenue.



 



   (2)   All streets intersecting Ventura Boulevard between Fulton
Avenue and Whitsett Avenue, from Ventura Boulevard to the end of the
contiguous commercial properties southerly thereof.



 



   (II)   Sub-Zone II - $1.50 per hour.  Sub-Zone II includes:



 



   (A)   All streets within the area bound by the following street
segments:



 



   (1)   Ventura Boulevard from Whitsett Avenue to Laurel Canyon
Boulevard.



 



   (2)   Whitsett Avenue from Ventura Boulevard to the Los Angeles
River.



 



   (3)   The Los Angeles River from Whitsett Avenue to Laurel Canyon
Boulevard.



 



   (4)   Laurel Canyon Boulevard from the Los Angeles River to Ventura
Boulevard.



 



   (B)   All boundary street segments set forth in (A) above.



 



   (C)   All streets intersecting Ventura Boulevard between Whitsett
Avenue and Laurel Canyon Boulevard, including Whitsett Avenue and Laurel
Canyon Boulevard, from Ventura Boulevard to the end of the contiguous
commercial properties southerly thereof.



 



   (III)   Sub-Zone III - $1.00 per hour.  Sub-Zone III includes:



 



   (A)   All streets within the area bound by the following street
segments:



 



   (1)   Ventura Boulevard from Laurel Canyon Boulevard to Lankershim
Boulevard.



 



   (2)   Laurel Canyon Boulevard from Ventura Boulevard to the Los
Angeles River.



 



   (3)   The Los Angeles River from Laurel Canyon Boulevard to
Lankershim Boulevard.



 



   (4)   Lankershim Boulevard from the Los Angeles River to Ventura
Boulevard.



 



   (B)   All boundary street segments set forth in (A) above, except
Laurel Canyon Boulevard.



 



   (C)   All streets intersecting Ventura Boulevard between Laurel
Canyon Boulevard and Lankershim Boulevard, from Ventura Boulevard to the end
of the contiguous commercial properties southerly thereof.



 



   11.   Sunset-Vine Parking Meter Zone - $1.00 per hour.  This zone
includes:



 



   (A)   The following street segments:



 



   (1)   Sunset Boulevard from La Brea Avenue to Van Ness Avenue.



 



   (2)   La Brea Avenue from Hawthorn Avenue to the City limits near
Fountain Avenue.



 



   (3)   Sycamore Avenue from Sunset Boulevard to De Longpre Avenue.



 



   (4)   Orange Drive from Sunset Boulevard to De Longpre Avenue.



 



   (5)   Mansfield Avenue from Sunset Boulevard to Leland Way.



 



   (6)   Highland Avenue from Selma Avenue to Lexington Avenue.



 



   This subdivision shall cease to be operative six months after receipt
by the City Council of written notice of withdrawal of approval by the State
Department of Public Works.



 



   (7)   All streets intersecting Highland Avenue between Sunset
Boulevard and Lexington Avenue, from Highland Avenue to the end of the
contiguous commercial properties easterly and westerly thereof.



 



   (8)   McCadden Place from Selma Avenue to De Longpre Avenue.



 



   (9)   Las Palmas Avenue from Selma Avenue to Leland Way.



 



   (10)   Cherokee Avenue from Sunset Boulevard to the end of the
contiguous commercial properties south of Leland Way.



 



   (11)   Cassil Place from Sunset Boulevard to Selma Avenue.



 



   (12)   Seward Street from Sunset Boulevard to the end of the
contiguous commercial properties southerly thereof.



 



   (13)   Schrader Boulevard from Sunset Boulevard to Selma Avenue.



 



   (14)   Wilcox Avenue from Selma Avenue to De Longpre Avenue.



 



   (15)   Cole Place from Sunset Boulevard to De Longpre Avenue.



 



   (16)   Cahuenga Boulevard from Selma Avenue to De Longpre Avenue.



 



   (17)   Ivar Street from Selma Avenue to De Longpre Avenue.



 



   (18)   Vine Street from Sunset Boulevard to Lexington Avenue.



 



   (19)   All streets intersecting Vine Street between Sunset Boulevard
and Lexington Avenue, from Vine Street to the end of the contiguous
commercial properties easterly and westerly thereof.



 



   (20)   Argyle Avenue from Sunset Boulevard to Selma Avenue.



 



   (21)   EI Centro Avenue from Selma Avenue to Leland Way.



 



   (22)   Gower Street from Selma Avenue to De Longpre Avenue.



 



   (23)   Gordon Street from Sunset Boulevard to the end of the
contiguous commercial properties northerly thereof.



 



   (24)   De Longpre Avenue from Sycamore Avenue to the end of the
contiguous commercial properties west of La Brea Avenue.



 



   (25)   Lexington Avenue from Citrus Avenue to McCadden Place.



 



   12.    USC-Coliseum Parking Meter Zone - $1.00 per hour.  This zone
includes:



 



   (A)    All streets within the area bound by the following street
segments:



 



   (1)   Vermont Avenue from Martin Luther King, Jr. Boulevard to
Jefferson Boulevard.



 



   (2)   Jefferson Boulevard from Vermont Avenue to Catalina Street.



 



   (3)   Catalina Street from Jefferson Boulevard to 29th Street.



 



   (4)   29th Street from Catalina Street to Vermont Avenue.



 



   (5)   Vermont Avenue from 29th Street to 27th Street.



 



   (6)   27th Street from Vermont Avenue to Catalina Street.



 



   (7)   Catalina Street from 27th Street to Adams Boulevard.



 



   (8)   Adams Boulevard from Catalina Street to Flower Street.



 



   (9)   Flower Street from Adams Boulevard to Figueroa Street.



 



   (10)   Figueroa Street from Flower Street to Martin Luther King, Jr.
Boulevard.



 



   (11)   Martin Luther King, Jr. Boulevard from Figueroa Street to
Vermont Avenue.



 



   (B)   All boundary street segments set forth in (A) above, except
Catalina Street.



 



   (C)   All streets intersecting Vermont Avenue between Martin Luther
King, Jr. Boulevard and Jefferson Boulevard, from Vermont Avenue to the end
of the contiguous commercial properties westerly thereof.



 



   (D)   The following street segments:



 



   (1)   Figueroa Street from Adams Boulevard to Figueroa Way.



 



   (2)   Martin Luther King, Jr. Boulevard from Figueroa Street to
Flower Street.



 



   13.   Lincoln Heights Parking Meter Zone - $1.00 per hour.  This
zone includes:



 



   (A)   The following street segments:



 



   (1)   North Broadway from the Golden State Freeway to Hancock Street.



 



   (2)   All streets intersecting North Broadway between the Golden
State Freeway and Hancock Street, from North Broadway to the end of the
contiguous commercial properties northerly and southerly thereof.



 



   (3)   Pasadena Avenue from Avenue 23 to Avenue 28.



 



   (4)   Avenue 26 from Barranca Street to Workman Street.



 



   This subdivision shall cease to be operative six months after receipt
by the City Council of written notice of withdrawal of approval by the State
Department of Public Works.



 



   (5)   Avenue 23 from Pasadena Avenue to Avenue 24.



 



   (6)   Avenue 24 from Pasadena Avenue to the end of the contiguous
commercial properties south of North Broadway.



 



   (7)   Daly Street from Avenue 26 to Manitou Avenue.



 



   This subdivision shall cease to be operative six months after receipt
by the City Council of written notice of withdrawal of approval by the State
Department of Public Works.



 



   14.   Sunset-Alvarado Parking Meter Zone - $1.00 per hour.  This
zone includes:



 



   (A)   The following street segments:



 



   (1)   Sunset Boulevard from Rosemont Avenue to Portia Street.



 



   (2)   Reservoir Street from Alvarado Street to Sunset Boulevard.



 



   (3)   Alvarado Street from Reservoir Street to Montrose Street.



 



   (4)   Rosemont Avenue from Sunset Boulevard to Marathon Street.



 



   (5)   Mohawk Street from Elsinore Street to Marathon Street.



 



   (6)   Park Avenue from Sunset Boulevard to Glendale Boulevard.



 



   (7)   Bonnie Brae Street from Park Avenue to the alley westerly
thereof.



 



   (8)   Lemoyne Street from the alley north of Sunset Boulevard to the
alley south of Sunset Boulevard.



 



   (9)   Logan Street from Montana Street to the alley south of Sunset
Boulevard.



 



   (10)   Echo Park Avenue from Montana Street to the alley south of
Sunset Boulevard.



 



   (11)   Montana Street from Logan Street to Echo Park Avenue.



 



   (12)   Laveta Terrace from Laguna Avenue to the end of the
contiguous commercial properties north of Sunset Boulevard.



 



   15.   Vermont-Wilshire Parking Meter Zone.



 



   (I)   Sub-Zone I - $1.00 per hour.  Sub-Zone I includes:



 



   (A)   The following street segments:



 



   (1)   Vermont Avenue from:



 



   (a)   Oakwood Avenue to 6th Street.



 



   (b)   7th Street to Venice Boulevard.



 



   (2)   Oakwood Avenue from New Hampshire Avenue to Vermont Avenue.



 



   (3)   Beverly Boulevard from Vermont Avenue to Juanita Avenue.



 



   (4)   Council Street from the alley west of Vermont Avenue to
Juanita Avenue.



 



   (5)   1st Street from the alley west of Vermont Avenue to Bimini
Place.



 



   (6)   2nd Street from Vermont Avenue to Juanita Avenue.



 



   (7)   3rd Street from Kenmore Avenue to Juanita Avenue.



 



   (8)   All streets intersecting 3rd Street between Kenmore Avenue and
Vermont Avenue, including Kenmore Avenue, from 3rd Street to the end of the
contiguous commercial properties northerly and southerly thereof.



 



   (9)   4th Street from New Hampshire Avenue to Westmoreland Avenue.



 



   (10)   Shatto Place from 4th Street to 6th Street.



 



   (11)   5th Street from New Hampshire Avenue to Commonwealth Avenue.



 



   (12)   All streets intersecting 6th Street between Kenmore Avenue
and Vermont Avenue, from 6th Street to the end of the contiguous commercial
properties northerly thereof.



 



   (13)   Westmoreland Avenue from 5th Street to 6th Street.



 



   (14)   Virgil Avenue from 5th Street to 6th Street.



 



   (15)   Commonwealth Avenue from 5th Street to 6th Street.



 



   (16)   La Fayette Park Place from 6th Street to the end of the
contiguous commercial properties northerly thereof.



 



   (17)   Westmoreland Avenue from 7th Street to San Marino Street.



 



   (18)   Magnolia Avenue from 7th Street to Leeward Avenue.



 



   (19)   Leeward Avenue from Vermont Avenue to the end of the
contiguous commercial properties easterly thereof.



 



   (20)   8th Street from Kenmore Avenue to Park View Street.



 



   (21)   All streets intersecting 8th Street between Kenmore Avenue
and Vermont Avenue, from 8th Street to the end of the contiguous commercial
properties northerly and southerly thereof.



 



   (22)   Francis Avenue from Vermont Avenue to the end of the
contiguous commercial properties easterly thereof.



 



   (23)   James M. Wood Boulevard from New Hampshire Avenue to Park
View Street.



 



   (24)   San Marino Street from the alley west of Vermont Avenue to
Menlo Avenue.



 



   (25)   Olympic Boulevard from Kenmore Avenue to Hoover Street.



 



   (26)   All streets intersecting Olympic Boulevard between Kenmore
Avenue and Hoover Street, from Olympic Boulevard to the end of the contiguous
commercial properties northerly and southerly thereof.



 



   (27)   Arapahoe Street from the end of the contiguous commercial
properties north of Olympic Boulevard to 11th Street.



 



   (28)   11th Street from:



 



   (a)   Menlo Avenue to the contiguous commercial properties west of
Vermont Avenue.



 



   (b)   Arapahoe Street to Hoover Street.



 



   (29)   Menlo Avenue from 11th Street to the end of the contiguous
commercial properties southerly thereof.



 



   (30)   12th Street from Vermont Avenue to the end of the contiguous
commercial properties westerly thereof.



 



   (31)   Pico Boulevard from Fedora Street to Hoover Street.



 



   (32)   All streets intersecting Pico Boulevard between Fedora Street
and Hoover Street, including the east side of Fedora Street, from Pico
Boulevard to the end of the contiguous commercial properties northerly and
southerly thereof.



 



   (33)   Venice Boulevard from Arapahoe Street to Burlington Avenue.



 



   (34)   Washington Boulevard from Catalina Street to Union Avenue.



 



   (35)   Hoover Street from:



 



   (a)   6th Street to Occidental Boulevard.



 



   (b)   7th Street to Washington Boulevard.



 



   (II)   Sub-Zone II - $1.00 per hour.  Sub-Zone II includes:



 



   (A)   All streets within the area bound by the following street
segments:



 



   (1)   6th Street from Kenmore Avenue to Benton Way.



 



   (2)   La Fayette Park Place from 6th Street to 7th Street.



 



   (3)   7th Street from La Fayette Park Place to Catalina Street.



 



   (4)   Catalina Street from 7th Street to Wilshire Boulevard.



 



   (5)   Wilshire Boulevard from Catalina Street to Kenmore Avenue.



 



   (6)   Kenmore Avenue from Wilshire Boulevard to 6th Street.



 



   (B)   All boundary street segments set forth in (A) above, except
Kenmore Avenue.



 



   16.   Broadway-Vernon Parking Meter Zone - $1.00 per hour.  This
zone includes:



 



   (A)   The following street segments:



 



   (1)   Broadway between 42nd Street and 54th Street.



 



   (2)   All streets intersecting Broadway between 42nd Street and 54th
street, including 54th Street, from Broadway to the end of the contiguous
commercial properties easterly and westerly thereof.



 



   17.   Sherman Oaks Parking Meter Zone.



 



   (I)   Sub-Zone I - $1.00 per hour.  Sub-Zone I includes:



 



   (A)   All streets within the area bound by the following street
segments:



 



   (1)   Magnolia Boulevard from the San Diego Freeway to Fulton Avenue.



 



   (2)   Fulton Avenue from Magnolia Boulevard to Valley Vista
Boulevard.



 



   (3)   Valley Vista Boulevard from Fulton Avenue to Beverly Glen
Boulevard.



 



   (4)   Beverly Glen Boulevard from Valley Vista Boulevard to Ventura
Boulevard.



 



   (5)   Tyrone Avenue from Ventura Boulevard to the Ventura Freeway.



 



   (6)   The Ventura Freeway from Tyrone Avenue to the San Diego
Freeway.



 



   (7)   The San Diego Freeway from the Ventura Freeway to Magnolia
Boulevard.



 



   (B)   All boundary street segments set forth in (A) above, except:



 



   (1)   The Ventura Freeway.



 



   (2)   The San Diego Freeway.



 



   (II)   Sub-Zone II - $1.00 per hour.  Sub-Zone II includes:



 



   (A)   All streets within the area bound by the following street
segments:



 



   (1)   The Ventura Freeway from Tyrone Avenue to the San Diego
Freeway.



 



   (2)   The San Diego Freeway from the Ventura Freeway to Valley Vista
Boulevard.



 



   (3)   Valley Vista Boulevard from the San Diego Freeway to Beverly
Glen Boulevard.



 



   (4)   Beverly Glen Boulevard from Valley Vista Boulevard to Ventura
Boulevard.



 



   (5)   Tyrone Avenue from Ventura Boulevard to the Ventura Freeway.



 



   (B)   Valley Vista Boulevard from the San Diego Freeway to Beverly
Glen Boulevard.



 



   18.   San Pedro Parking Meter Zone - $1.00 per hour.  This zone
includes:



 



   (A)   The following street segments:



 



   (1)   5th Street from the alley west of Pacific Avenue to Palos
Verdes Street.



 



   (2)   6th Street from Gaffey Avenue to Harbor Boulevard.



 



   (3)   7th Street from Grand Avenue to Harbor Boulevard.



 



   (4)   8th Street from:



 



   (a)   The alley west of Pacific Avenue to Mesa Street.



 



   (b)   Palos Verdes Street to Beacon Street.



 



   (5)   9th Street from:



 



   (a)   Grand Avenue to the end of the contiguous commercial
properties east of Pacific Avenue.



 



   (b)   Palos Verdes Street to Beacon Street.



 



   (6)   The south side of 9th Street from Cabrillo Avenue to Grand
Avenue.



 



   (7)   10th Street from Pacific Avenue to the end of the contiguous
commercial properties easterly and westerly thereof.



 



   (8)   11th Street from Pacific Avenue to the end of the contiguous
commercial properties easterly and westerly thereof.



 



   (9)   12th Street from Pacific Avenue to the end of the contiguous
commercial properties easterly and westerly thereof.



 



   (10)   Pacific Avenue from Santa Cruz Street to 14th Street.



 



   (11)   Mesa Street from 5th Street to 8th Street.



 



   (12)   Nelson Street from 5th Street to 6th Street.



 



   (13)   Centre Street from 5th Street to 8th Street.



 



   (14)   Palos Verdes Street from 6th Street to 7th Street.



 



   (15)   Beacon Street from 6th Street to 10th Street.



 



   19.   Glendale-Atwater Parking Meter Zone - $1.00 per hour.  This
zone includes:



 



   (A)   All streets within the area bound by the following street
segments:



 



   (1)   Riverside Drive from Fletcher Drive to Los Feliz Boulevard.



 



   (2)   Los Feliz Boulevard from Riverside Drive to the Los Angeles
River.



 



   (3)   The Los Angeles River from Los Feliz Boulevard to Colorado
Boulevard.



 



   (4)   Colorado Boulevard from the Los Angeles River to San Fernando
Road.



 



   (5)   San Fernando Road from Colorado Boulevard to Fletcher Drive.



 



   (6)   Fletcher Drive from San Fernando Road to Riverside Drive.



 



   (B)   All boundary street segments set forth in (A) above.



 



   20.   Pico-Robertson Parking Meter Zone.



 



   (I)   Sub-Zone I - $1.00 per hour for each of the first four hours
and a total of $4.00 for up to ten hours as permitted by the posted parking
regulations.  Sub-Zone I includes:



 



   (A)   All streets within the area bound by the following street
segments:



 



   (1)   Whitworth Drive from Beverly Drive to Robertson Boulevard.



 



   (2)   Robertson Boulevard from Whitworth Drive to Airdrome Street.



 



   (3)   Airdrome Street from Robertson Boulevard to Rexford Drive.



 



   (4)   Rexford Drive from Airdrome Street to Cashio Street.



 



   (5)   Cashio Street from Rexford Drive to Roxbury Drive.



 



   (6)   Roxbury Drive from Cashio Street to Pico Boulevard.



 



   (7)   Pico Boulevard from Roxbury Drive to Beverly Drive.



 



   (8)   Beverly Drive from Pico Boulevard to Whitworth Drive.



 



   (B)   All boundary street segments set forth in (A) above.



 



   (C)   The following street segments:



 



   (1)   Pico Boulevard from Motor Avenue to Roxbury Drive.



 



   (2)   All streets intersecting Pico Boulevard between Century Park
East and Beverly Drive, from Pico Boulevard to the end of the contiguous
commercial properties northerly and southerly thereof.



 



   (II)   Sub-Zone II - $1.00 per hour.  Sub-Zone II includes:



 



   (A)   All streets within the area bound by the following street
segments:



 



   (1)   Whitworth Drive from Robertson Boulevard to Fairfax Avenue.



 



   (2)   Fairfax Avenue from Whitworth Drive to Airdrome Street.



 



   (3)   Airdrome Street from Fairfax Avenue to Robertson Boulevard.



 



   (4)   Robertson Boulevard from Airdrome Street to Whitworth Drive.



 



   (B)   All boundary street segments set forth in (A) above, except
Robertson Boulevard.



 



   21.   Reseda Parking Meter Zone - $1.00 per hour.  This zone
includes:



 



   (A)   All streets within the area bound by the following street
segments:



 



   (1)   Roscoe Boulevard from Corbin Avenue to White Oak Avenue.



 



   (2)   White Oak Avenue from Roscoe Boulevard to Victory Boulevard.



 



   (3)   Victory Boulevard from White Oak Avenue to Corbin Avenue.



 



   (4)   Corbin Avenue from Victory Boulevard to Roscoe Boulevard.



 



   (B)   All boundary street segments set forth in (A) above, except
the west side of Corbin Avenue.



 



   22.   Vermont-Manchester Parking Meter Zone - $1.00 per hour.  This
zone includes:



 



   (A)   The following street segments:



 



   (1)   Vermont Avenue (West Roadway) from 83rd Street to the City
limits south of Manchester Avenue.



 



   (2)   Vermont Avenue (East Roadway) from 83rd Street to 88th Street.



 



   (3)   All streets intersecting Vermont Avenue between 83rd Street
and 88th Street, including 83rd Street and 88th Street, from Vermont Avenue
to the alleys easterly and westerly thereof.



 



   (4)   Manchester Avenue from Menlo Avenue to Kansas Avenue.



 



   This subdivision shall cease to be operative six months after receipt
by the City Council of written notice of withdrawal of approval by the State
Department of Public Works.



 



   23.   Manchester-Broadway Parking Meter Zone - $1.00 per hour. 
This zone includes:



 



   (A)   The following street segments:



 



   (1)   Broadway from 85th Street to 88th Street.



 



   (2)   All streets intersecting Broadway between 85th Street and 88th
Street, including 85th Street and 88th Street, from Broadway to the end of
the contiguous commercial properties easterly and westerly thereof.



 



   (3)   Manchester Avenue from Olive Street to the end of the
contiguous commercial properties east of Broadway.



 



   This subdivision shall cease to be operative six months after receipt
by the City Council of written notice of withdrawal of approval by the State
Department of Public Works.



 



   24.   Crenshaw-Slauson Parking Meter Zone - $1.00 per hour.  This
zone includes:



 



   (A)   The following street segments:



 



   (1)   Crenshaw Boulevard from 52nd Street to 58th Place.



 



   (2)   54th Street from the end of the contiguous commercial
properties west of Crenshaw Boulevard to 11th Avenue.



 



   (3)   57th Street from Crenshaw Boulevard to the end of the
contiguous commercial properties easterly and westerly thereof.



 



   25.   Santa Monica-Sawtelle Parking Meter Zone - $1.00 per hour. 
This zone includes:



 



   (A)   All streets within the area bound by the following street
segments:



 



   (1)   The San Diego Freeway from Ohio Avenue to La Grange Avenue.



 



   (2)   La Grange Avenue from the San Diego Freeway to Bundy Drive.



 



   (3)   Bundy Drive from La Grange Avenue to Nebraska Avenue.



 



   (4)   Nebraska Avenue from Bundy Drive to Centinela Avenue.



 



   (5)   Centinela Avenue from Nebraska Avenue to Texas Avenue.



 



   (6)   Texas Avenue from Centinela Avenue to Federal Avenue.



 



   (7)   Federal Avenue from Texas Avenue to Ohio Avenue.



 



   (8)   Ohio Avenue from Federal Avenue to the San Diego Freeway.



 



   (B)   All boundary street segments set forth in (A) above, except:



 



   (1)   The San Diego Freeway.



 



   (2)   La Grange Avenue.



 



   (3)   Texas Avenue.



 



   26.   Santa Monica-Highland Parking Meter Zone - $1.00 per hour. 
This zone includes:



 



   (A)   The following street segments:



 



   (1)   Santa Monica Boulevard from the City limits west of Sycamore
Avenue to Gower Street.



 



   This subdivision shall cease to be operative six months after the
receipt by the City Council of written notice of withdrawal of approval of
the State Department of Public Works.



 



   (2)   All street intersecting Santa Monica Boulevard between the
City limits west of Sycamore Avenue and Gower Street, from Santa Monica
Boulevard to the end of the contiguous commercial properties northerly and
southerly thereof.



 



   (3)   Highland Avenue from Lexington Avenue to Romaine Street.



 



   (4)   McCadden Place from Lexington Avenue to the alley south of
Santa Monica Boulevard.



 



   (5)   Las Palmas Avenue from Lexington Avenue to Romaine Street.



 



   (6)   Vine Street from Lexington Avenue to Romaine Street.



 



   (7)   Gower Street from Lexington Avenue to Santa Monica Boulevard.



 



   (8)   Banner Avenue from Vine Street to the end of the contiguous
commercial properties easterly thereof.



 



   27.   Miracle Mile Parking Meter Zone.



 



   (I)   Sub-Zone I - $1.00 per hour.  Sub-Zone I includes:



 



   (A)   All streets within the area bound by the following street
segments:



 



   (1)   6th Street from Fairfax Avenue to Cochran Avenue.



 



   (2)   Cochran Avenue from 6th Street to 8th Street.



 



   (3)   8th Street from Cochran Avenue to Fairfax Avenue.



 



   (4)   Fairfax Avenue from 8th Street to 6th Street.



 



   (B)   All boundary street segments set forth in (A) above, except:



 



   (1)   Cochran Avenue.



 



   (2)   Fairfax Avenue.



 



   (II)   Sub-Zone II - $1.00 per hour.  Sub-Zone II includes:



 



   (A)   All streets within the area bound by the following street
segments:



 



   (1)   3rd Street from Cochran Avenue to Sycamore Avenue.



 



   (2)   Sycamore Avenue from 3rd Street to 8th Street.



 



   (3)   8th Street from Sycamore Avenue to Cochran Avenue.



 



   (4)   Cochran Avenue from 8th Street to 3rd Street.



 



   (B)   All boundary street segments set forth in (A) above.



 



   (C)   The following street segments:



 



   (1)   3rd Street from Cochran Avenue to Gardner Street.



 



   (2)   Wilshire Boulevard from Sycamore Avenue to Highland Avenue.



 



   (3)   All streets intersecting Wilshire Boulevard between Sycamore
Avenue and Highland Avenue, from Wilshire Boulevard to the end of the
contiguous commercial properties northerly and southerly thereof.



 



   28.   Robertson-Alden Parking Meter Zone - $2.00 per hour.  This
zone includes:



 



   (A)   The following street segments:



 



   (1)   The west side of Robertson Boulevard from the City limits
north of Alden Drive to the City limits at Burton Way.



 



   (2)   The east side of Robertson Boulevard from the City limits
north of Alden Drive to the City limits south of Colgate Avenue.



 



   (3)   San Vicente Boulevard from the City limits south of Beverly
Boulevard to 3rd Street.



 



   (4)   3rd Street from Robertson Boulevard to San Vicente Boulevard.



 



   (5)   All streets intersecting 3rd Street between Robertson
Boulevard and San Vicente Boulevard, from 3rd Street to the end of the
contiguous commercial properties southerly thereof.



 



   (6)   Alden Drive from Robertson Boulevard to the end of the
contiguous commercial properties easterly and westerly thereof.



 



   (7)   Colgate Avenue from Robertson Boulevard to the end of the
contiguous commercial properties easterly thereof.



 



   29.   Crenshaw-King Parking Meter Zone - $1.00 per hour.  This zone
includes:



 



   (A)   Crenshaw Boulevard West Service Roadway from 39th Street to
Martin Luther King, Jr. Boulevard.



 



   30.   Eagle Rock Parking Meter Zone - $1.00 per hour.  This zone
includes:



 



   (A)   The following street segments:



 



   (1)   Colorado Boulevard from Windermere Avenue to Glen Iris Avenue.



 



   This subdivision shall cease to be operative six months after receipt
by the City Council of written notice of withdrawal of approval by the State
Department of Public Works.



 



   (2)   All streets intersecting Colorado Boulevard between Windermere
Avenue and Glen Iris Avenue, from Colorado Boulevard to the end of the
contiguous commercial properties northerly thereof.



 



   (3)   Eagle Rock Boulevard from Chickasaw Avenue to the end of the
contiguous commercial properties north of Colorado Boulevard.



 



   This subdivision shall cease to be operative six months after receipt
by the City Council of written notice of withdrawal of approval by the State
Department of Public Works.



 



   (4)   Merton Avenue from the alley west of Eagle Rock Boulevard to
the alley east of Eagle Rock Boulevard.



 



   (5)   Chickasaw Avenue from Eagle Rock Boulevard to the end of the
contiguous commercial properties easterly thereof.



 



   (6)   Caspar Avenue from Merton Avenue to Colorado Boulevard.



 



   31.   Pacific Palisades Parking Meter Zone - $1.00 per hour.  This
zone includes:



 



   (A)   The following street segments:



 



   (1)   Sunset Boulevard from the end of the contiguous commercial
properties west of Via de la Paz to Carey Street.



 



   (2)   Antioch Street from Haverford Avenue to Sunset Boulevard.



 



   (3)   Monument Street from Albright Street to Sunset Boulevard.



 



   (4)   Via de la Paz from Sunset Boulevard to Bowdoin Street.



 



   (5)   Swarthmore Avenue from Monument Street to La Cruz Drive.



 



   (6)   La Cruz Drive from Swarthmore Avenue to Sunset Boulevard.



 



   (7)   Alma Real Drive from La Cruz Drive to Toyopa Drive.



 



   (8)   Entrada Drive from Pacific Coast Highway to Short Street.



 



   (9)   West Channel Street from Pacific Coast Highway to Short Street.



 



   (10)   Sunset Boulevard from Pacific Coast Highway to Los Liones
Drive.



 



   (11)   Palisades Drive from Sunset Boulevard to the end of the
contiguous commercial properties northerly thereof.



 



   (12)   Marquez Avenue from Sunset Boulevard to the intersection with
Jacon Way westerly thereof.



 



   (13)   Bollinger Drive from Marquez Avenue to the alley southerly
thereof.



 



   32.   Canoga Park Parking Meter Zone - $1.00 per hour.  This zone
includes:



 



   (A)   All streets within the area bound by the following street
segments:



 



   (1)   Roscoe Boulevard from Fallbrook Avenue to Corbin Avenue.



 



   (2)   Corbin Avenue from Roscoe Boulevard to Victory Boulevard.



 



   (3)   Victory Boulevard from Corbin Avenue to Fallbrook Avenue.



 



   (4)   Fallbrook Avenue from Victory Boulevard to Roscoe Boulevard.



 



   (B)   All boundary street segments set forth in (A) above, except
the east side of Corbin Avenue.



 



   33.   Westwood Village Parking Meter Zone - $1.00 per hour.  This
zone includes:



 



   (A)   All streets within the area bound by the following street
segments:



 



   (1)   Le Conte Avenue from Levering Avenue to Hilgard Avenue.



 



   (2)   Hilgard Avenue from Le Conte Avenue to Lindbrook Drive.



 



   (3)   Lindbrook Drive from Hilgard Avenue to Gayley Avenue.



 



   (4)   Gayley Avenue from Lindbrook Drive to Levering Avenue.



 



   (5)   Levering Avenue from Gayley Avenue to Le Conte Avenue.



 



   (B)   All boundary street segments set forth in (A) above.



 



   (C)   The following street segments:



 



   (1)   Weyburn Avenue from Gayley Avenue to Weyburn Place.



 



   (2)   Kinross Avenue from Gayley Avenue to Weyburn Place.



 



   34.   Wilmington Parking Meter Zone - $1.00 per hour.  This zone
includes:



 



   (A)   All streets within the area bound by the following street
segments:



 



   (1)   Figueroa Street from Pacific Coast Highway to Anaheim Street.



 



   (2)   Anaheim Street from Figueroa Street to Vermont Avenue.



 



   (3)   Vermont Avenue from Anaheim Street to Pacific Coast Highway.



 



   (4)   Pacific Coast Highway from Vermont Avenue to Figueroa Street.



 



   (B)   All boundary street segments set forth in (A) above.



 



   (C)   The following street segments:



 



   (1)   Avalon Boulevard from Denni Street to "F" Street.



 



   (2)   Marine Avenue from "I" Street to "G" Street.



 



   (3)   Broad Avenue from "I" Street to "G" Street.



 



   (4)   Opp Street from the alley west of Avalon Boulevard to the
alley east of Avalon Boulevard.



 



   (5)   "I" Street from the alley west of Avalon Boulevard to Broad
Avenue.



 



   (6)   Anaheim Street from Fries Avenue to Lakme Avenue.



 



   (7)   "G" Street from Marine Avenue to Broad Avenue.



 



   35.   La Cienega Center Parking Meter Zone - $1.00 per hour.  This
zone includes:



 



   (A)   The following street segments:



 



   (1)   La Cienega Boulevard from:



 



   (a)   The City limits north of Romaine Street to the City limits
south of Melrose Place.



 



   (b)   The City limits at Rosewood Avenue to Beverly Boulevard.



 



   (2)   All streets intersecting La Cienega Boulevard between Santa
Monica Boulevard and Melrose Place, and between Rosewood Avenue and Beverly
Boulevard, from La Cienega Boulevard to the end of the contiguous commercial
properties easterly and westerly thereof.



 



   (3)   Melrose Place from La Cienega Boulevard to Orlando Avenue.



 



   (4)   Beverly Boulevard from the City limits west of La Cienega
Boulevard to Crescent Heights Boulevard.



 



   (5)   All streets intersecting Beverly Boulevard between La Cienega
Boulevard and Crescent Heights Boulevard, including Crescent Heights
Boulevard, from the alley north of Beverly Boulevard to the alley south of
Beverly Boulevard.



 



   (6)   The north side of Beverly Place from La Cienega Boulevard to
the City limits westerly thereof.



 



   (7)   The south side of Beverly Place from La Cienega Boulevard to
Huntley Drive.



 



   36.   Westwood-Santa Monica Parking Meter Zone.



 



   (I)   Sub-Zone I - $1.00 per hour.  Sub-Zone I includes:



 



   (A)   All streets within the area bound by the following street
segments:



 



   (1)   Wilshire Boulevard from Midvale Avenue to Malcolm Avenue.



 



   (2)   Malcolm Avenue from Wilshire Boulevard to Ohio Avenue.



 



   (3)   Ohio Avenue from Malcolm Avenue to Midvale Avenue.



 



   (4)   Midvale Avenue from Ohio Avenue to Wilshire Boulevard.



 



   (B)   All boundary street segments set forth in (A) above.



 



   (II)   Sub-Zone II - $1.00 per hour.  Sub-Zone II includes:



 



   (A)   All streets within the area bound by the following street
segments:



 



   (1)   Olympic Boulevard from the San Diego Freeway to Century Park
West.



 



   (2)   The San Diego Freeway from Olympic Boulevard to Wilshire
Boulevard.



 



   (3)   Wilshire Boulevard from the San Diego Freeway to Midvale
Avenue.



 



   (4)   Midvale Avenue from Wilshire Boulevard to Ohio Avenue.



 



   (5)   Ohio Avenue from Midvale Avenue to Malcolm Avenue.



 



   (6)   Malcolm Avenue from Ohio Avenue to Wilshire Boulevard.



 



   (7)   Wilshire Boulevard from Malcolm Avenue to Comstock Avenue.



 



   (8)   Comstock Avenue from Wilshire Boulevard to Club View Drive.



 



   (9)   Club View Drive from Comstock Avenue to Santa Monica Boulevard.



 



   (10)   Santa Monica Boulevard from Club View Drive to Century Park
West.



 



   (11)   Century Park West from Santa Monica Boulevard to Olympic
Boulevard.



 



   (B)   All boundary street segments set forth in (A) above, except:



 



   (1)   Olympic Boulevard.



 



   (2)   The San Diego Freeway.



 



   (3)   Midvale Avenue.



 



   (4)   Ohio Avenue.



 



   (5)   Malcolm Avenue.



 



   (C)   Santa Monica Boulevard from Club View Drive to Avenue of the
Stars.



 



   37.   Central Business District Parking Meter Zone.



 



   (I)   Sub-Zone I - $4.00 per hour.  Sub-Zone I includes:



 



   (A)   All streets within the area bound by the following street
segments:



 



   (1)   4th Street from the Harbor Freeway to Hill Street.



 



   (2)   Hill Street from 4th Street to 9th Street.



 



   (3)   9th Street from Hill Street to James M. Wood Boulevard.



 



   (4)   James M. Wood Boulevard from 9th Street to Francisco Street.



 



   (5)   Francisco Street from James M. Wood Boulevard to 7th Street.



 



   (6)   7th Street from Francisco Street to the Harbor Freeway.



 



   (7)   The Harbor Freeway from 7th Street to 4th Street.



 



   (B)   The following street segments:



 



   (1)   4th Street from the Harbor Freeway to Hill Street.



 



   (2)   7th Street from Francisco Street to the Harbor Freeway.



 



   (3)   Francisco Street from James M. Wood Boulevard to 7th Street.



 



   (C)   Excludes Grand Avenue from 4th Street to Hope Place.



 



   (II)   Sub-Zone II - $3.00 per hour.  Sub-Zone II includes:



 



   (A)   All streets within the area bound by the following street
segments:



 



   (1)   4th Street from Hill Street to San Pedro Street.



 



   (2)   San Pedro Street from 4th Street to 9th Street.



 



   (3)   9th Street from San Pedro Street to San Julian Street.



 



   (4)   San Julian Street from 9th Street to Olympic Boulevard.



 



   (5)   Olympic Boulevard from San Julian Street to Maple Avenue.



 



   (6)   Maple Avenue from Olympic Boulevard to Pico Boulevard.



 



   (7)   Pico Boulevard from Maple Avenue to Hill Street.



 



   (8)   Hill Street from Pico Boulevard to Olympic Boulevard.



 



   (9)   Olympic Boulevard from Hill Street to Flower Street.



 



   (10)   Flower Street from Olympic Boulevard to Pico Boulevard.



 



   (11)   Pico Boulevard from Flower Street to the Harbor Freeway.



 



   (12)   The Harbor Freeway from Pico Boulevard to James M. Wood
Boulevard.



 



   (13)   James M. Wood Boulevard from the Harbor Freeway to 9th Street.



 



   (14)   9th Street from James M. Wood Boulevard to Hill Street.



 



   (15)   Hill Street from 9th Street to 4th Street.



 



   (B)   All boundary street segments set forth in (A) above, except:



 



   (1)   Olympic Boulevard from Hill Street to Flower Street.



 



   (2)   Pico Boulevard from Maple Avenue to the Harbor Freeway.



 



   (3)   The Harbor Freeway.



 



   (4)   Hill Street from Pico Boulevard to Olympic Boulevard.



 



   (III)   Sub-Zone III - $1.00 per hour for each of the first four
hours and a total of $4.00 for up to ten hours as permitted by the posted
parking regulations.  Sub-Zone III includes:



 



   (A)   All streets within the area bound by the following street
segments:



 



   (1)   Pico Boulevard from the Harbor Freeway to Maple Avenue.



 



   (2)   Maple Avenue from Pico Boulevard to Olympic Boulevard.



 



   (3)   Olympic Boulevard from Maple Avenue to San Julian Street.



 



   (4)   San Julian Street from Olympic Boulevard to 9th Street.



 



   (5)   9th Street from San Julian Street to San Pedro Street.



 



   (6)   San Pedro Street from 9th Street to the Santa Monica Freeway.



 



   (7)   The Santa Monica Freeway from San Pedro Street to the Harbor
Freeway.



 



   (8)   The Harbor Freeway from the Santa Monica Freeway to Pico
Boulevard.



 



   (B)   The following street segments:



 



   (1)   Pico Boulevard from:



 



   (a)   L.A. Live Way to Flower Street.



 



   (b)   Hill Street to Maple Avenue.



 



   (2)   San Pedro Street from 9th Street to the Santa Monica Freeway.



 



   (C)   Excludes Olive Street from the Santa Monica Freeway to 17th
Street.



 



   (IV)   Sub-Zone IV - $1.00 per hour.  Sub-Zone IV includes:



 



   (A)   All streets within the area bound by the following street
segments:



 



   (1)   Olympic Boulevard from Flower Street to Hill Street.



 



   (2)   Hill Street from Olympic Boulevard to Pico Boulevard.



 



   (3)   Pico Boulevard from Hill Street to Flower Street.



 



   (4)   Flower Street from Pico Boulevard to Olympic Boulevard.



 



   (B)   All boundary street segments set forth in (A) above, except
Flower Street.



 



   38.    Palms Parking Meter Zone - $1.00 per hour.  This zone
includes:



 



   (A)   All streets within an area bounded by the following street
segments:



 



   (1)   Motor Avenue between the city line at Washington Boulevard and
a point 300 feet north of Irene Street.



 



   (2)   National Boulevard between Mentone Avenue and Motor Avenue.



 



   (3)   Mentone Avenue between National Boulevard and a point 180 feet
northerly thereof.



 



   (4)   Woodbine Street between the alley easterly and the alley
westerly of Motor Avenue.



 



   (5)   Palms Boulevard between the alley easterly and the alley
westerly of Motor Avenue.



 



   (6)   Tabor Street between Vinton Avenue and the alley westerly of
Motor Avenue.



 



   (7)   Regent Street between Vinton Avenue and the alley westerly of
Motor Avenue.



 



   (8)   Venice Boulevard between Culver Boulevard and Overland Avenue.



 



   (9)   Durango Avenue between Venice Boulevard and the alley
northerly thereof.



 



   (10)   Canfield Avenue between the alley northerly and the city line
southerly of Venice Boulevard.



 



   (11)   Bagley Avenue between a point 160 feet northerly and the city
line southerly of Venice Boulevard.



 



   (12)   Cardiff Avenue between the alley northerly and the city line
southerly of Venice Boulevard.



 



   (13)   Watseka Avenue between the alley northerly and the city line
southerly of Venice Boulevard.



 



   (14)   Delmas Terrace between a point 220 feet northerly and the
city line southerly of Venice Boulevard.



 



   (15)   Hughes Avenue between a point 160 feet northerly and a point
130 feet southerly of Venice Boulevard.



 



   (16)   Dunn Drive between a point 375 feet northerly and a point 175
feet southerly of Venice Boulevard.



 



   (17)   Clarington Avenue between a point 315 feet northerly and a
point 170 feet southerly of Venice Boulevard.



 



   (18)   Jasmine Avenue between a point 225 feet northerly and a point
210 feet southerly of Venice Boulevard.



 



   (19)   Vinton Avenue between the alley northerly and a point 185
feet southerly of Venice Boulevard.



 



   (20)   Goldwyn Terrace between Venice Boulevard and a point 105 feet
southerly thereof.



 



   (21)   Mentone Avenue between a point 410 feet northerly and the
alley southerly of Venice Boulevard.



 



   (22)   Keystone Avenue between a point 400 feet northerly and the
alley southerly of Venice Boulevard.



 



   (23)   Santa Monica Freeway between Robertson Boulevard and
Cattaraugus Avenue.



 



   (24)   Cattaraugus Avenue between the Santa Monica Freeway and city
limit of Culver City south of Venice Boulevard.



 



   (25)   Culver City City Limit south of Venice Boulevard between
Cattaraugus Avenue and Culver Boulevard.



 



   (26)   Culver Boulevard between Culver City City Limit south of
Venice Boulevard and Venice Boulevard.



 



   (27)   Venice Boulevard between Culver Boulevard and Exposition
Boulevard.



 



   (28)   Exposition Boulevard between Venice Boulevard and Exposition
Place.



 



   (29)   Exposition Place between Exposition Boulevard and Robertson
Boulevard.



 



   (30)   Robertson Boulevard between Exposition Place and Santa Monica
Freeway.



 



   (B)   The boundary segments set forth in Recommendation 1(A) above
except the Santa Monica Freeway, Culver City City Limit, and segment of
Robertson Boulevard between Santa Monica Boulevard and Venice Boulevard.



 



   39.   Brentwood-San Vicente Parking Meter Zone - $2.00 per hour. 
This zone includes:



 



   (A)   All streets within the area bound by the following street
segments:



 



   (1)   San Vicente Boulevard from Bundy Drive to Montana Avenue.



 



   (2)   Montana Avenue from San Vicente Boulevard to Bringham Avenue.



 



   (3)   Bringham Avenue from Montana Avenue to San Vicente Boulevard.



 



   (4)   San Vicente Boulevard from Bringham Avenue to Mayfield Avenue.



 



   (5)   Mayfield Avenue from San Vicente Boulevard to Bundy Drive.



 



   (6)   Bundy Drive from Mayfield Avenue to San Vicente Boulevard.



 



   (B)   All boundary street segments set forth in (A) above.



 



   (C)   All streets intersecting San Vicente Boulevard and Montana
Avenue, as set forth in (A) above, from San Vicente Boulevard and Montana
Avenue to the end of the contiguous commercial properties northerly thereof.



 



   40.   Larchmont Parking Meter Zone - $1.00 per hour.  This zone
includes:



 



   (A)   The following street segments:



 



   (1)   Larchmont Boulevard from Melrose Avenue to 3rd Street.



 



   (2)   All streets intersecting Larchmont Boulevard between Melrose
Avenue and 3rd Street, from Larchmont Boulevard to the end of the contiguous
commercial properties easterly and westerly thereof.



 



   41.   Venice Parking Meter Zone.



 



   (I)   Sub-Zone I - $1.00 per hour from October 1 through April 30;
$2.00 per hour from May 1 through September 30.  Sub-Zone I includes:



 



   (A)   All streets within the area bound by the following street
segments:



 



   (1)   South Venice Boulevard from Ocean Front Walk to Abbot Kinney
Boulevard.



 



   (2)   Ocean Front Walk from South Venice Boulevard to the City
limits at Marine Court.



 



   (3)   The City limits at Marine Court from Ocean Front Walk to Main
Street.



 



   (4)   Main Street from the City limits at Marine Court to Abbot
Kinney Boulevard.



 



   (5)   Abbot Kinney Boulevard from Main Street to South Venice
Boulevard.



 



   (B)   All boundary street segments set forth in (A) above, except:



 



   (1)   The City limits.



 



   (2)   Abbot Kinney Boulevard.



 



   (C)   Rose Avenue from Main Street to Hampton Drive.



 



   (II)   Sub-Zone II - $1.00 per hour.  Sub-Zone II includes:



 



   (A)   All streets within the area bound by the following street
segments:



 



   (1)   South Venice Boulevard from Abbot Kinney Boulevard to Lincoln
Boulevard.



 



   (2)   Abbot Kinney Boulevard from South Venice Boulevard to Main
Street.



 



   (3)   Main Street from Abbot Kinney Boulevard to the City limits at
Dewey Street.



 



   (4)   The City limits at Dewey Street from Main Street to Lincoln
Boulevard.



 



   (5)   Lincoln Boulevard from the City limits at Dewey Street to
South Venice Boulevard.



 



   (B)   All boundary street segments set forth in (A) above, except:



 



   (1)   The City limits.



 



   (2)   Main Street.



 



   (C)   All streets intersecting Lincoln Boulevard from the City
limits at Dewey Street to South Venice Boulevard, from Lincoln Boulevard to
the end of the contiguous commercial properties easterly thereof.



 



   (D)   Excludes Rose Avenue from Main Street to Hampton Drive.



 



   42.   Beverly-Fairfax Parking Meter Zone - $1.00 per hour.  This
zone includes:



 



   (A)   The following street segments:



 



   (1)   Fairfax Avenue from the City limits at Willoughby Avenue to
3rd Street.



 



   (2)   All streets intersecting Fairfax Avenue between the City
limits at Willoughby Avenue and 3rd Street, from Fairfax Avenue to the end of
the contiguous commercial properties easterly and westerly thereof.



 



   (3)   Melrose Avenue from the City limits at Croft Avenue to Gardner
Street.



 



   (4)   All streets intersecting Melrose Avenue between the City
limits at Croft Avenue and Gardner Street, including Gardner Street, from
Melrose Avenue to the end of the contiguous commercial properties northerly
and southerly thereof.



 



   (5)   Beverly Boulevard from Crescent Heights Boulevard to Gardner
Street.



 



   (6)   All streets intersecting Beverly Boulevard between Crescent
Heights Boulevard and Gardner Street, including Gardner Street, from Beverly
Boulevard to the end of the contiguous commercial properties northerly and
southerly thereof.



 



   43.   Leimert Park Parking Meter Zone - $1.00 per hour.  This zone
includes:



 



   (A)   The following street segments:



 



   (1)   Crenshaw Boulevard from 48th Street to Martin Luther King, Jr.
Boulevard.



 



   (2)   All frontage roads of Crenshaw Boulevard from 48th Street to
43rd Street.



 



   (3)   Leimert Boulevard from 48th Street to 43rd Street.



 



   (4)   All frontage roads of Leimert Boulevard from 48th Street to
43rd Street.



 



   (5)   43rd Street from Crenshaw Boulevard to Leimert Boulevard.



 



   (6)   43rd Place from Crenshaw Boulevard to Leimert Boulevard.



 



   (7)   Vernon Avenue from Crenshaw Boulevard to Leimert Boulevard.



 



   (8)   Degnan Boulevard from 43rd Place to the alley north of 43rd
Street.



 



   44.   Boyle Heights Parking Meter Zone - $1.00 per hour.  This zone
includes:



 



   (A)   The following street segments:



 



   (1)   Cesar E. Chavez Avenue from Boyle Avenue to Mott Street.



 



   (2)   All streets intersecting Cesar E. Chavez Avenue between Boyle
Avenue and Mott Street, including Boyle Avenue and Mott Street, from Cesar E.
Chavez Avenue to the end of the contiguous commercial properties northerly
and southerly thereof.



 



   (3)   East 1st Street from Boyle Avenue to Mott Street.



 



   (4)   Pleasant Avenue from Boyle Avenue to East 1st Street.



 



   45.   Brentwood Village Parking Meter Zone - $2.00 per hour.  This
zone includes:



 



   (A)   The following street segments:



 



   (1)   Barrington Avenue from Sunset Boulevard to Barrington Place.



 



   (2)   Barrington Place from Sunset Boulevard to Barrington Avenue.



 



   (3)   Chayote Street from Sunset Boulevard to Barrington Place.



 



   (4)   Barrington Court (entire street).



 



   46.    Hollywood-Vine Parking Meter Zone - $2.00 per hour.  This
zone includes:



 



   (A)   The following street segments:



 



   (1)   Hollywood Boulevard from La Brea Avenue to Gower Street.



 



   (2)   Franklin Avenue from Wilcox Avenue to Cahuenga Boulevard.



 



   (3)   Yucca Street from:



 



   (a)   Highland Avenue to Cherokee Avenue.



 



   (b)   Wilcox Avenue to Argyle Avenue.



 



   (4)   Hawthorn Avenue from Detroit Street to Highland Avenue.



 



   (5)   Selma Avenue from:



 



   (a)   Highland Avenue to McCadden Place.



 



   (b)   Cassil Place to Gower Street.



 



   (6)   La Brea Avenue from Hawthorne Avenue to Hollywood Boulevard.



 



   (7)   EI Cerrito Place from Hollywood Boulevard to the end of the
contiguous commercial properties north of Hollywood Boulevard.



 



   (8)   Sycamore Avenue from the alley south of Hollywood Boulevard to
the end of the contiguous commercial properties north of Hollywood Boulevard.



 



   (9)   Orange Drive from Hawthorne Avenue to the end of the
contiguous commercial properties north of Hollywood Boulevard.



 



   (10)   Highland Avenue from Selma Avenue to Franklin Place.



 



   This subdivision shall cease to be operative six months after receipt
by the City Council of written notice of withdrawal of approval by the State
Department of Public Works.



 



   (11)   McCadden Place from Selma Avenue to Yucca Street.



 



   (12)   Las Palmas Avenue from Selma Avenue to Franklin Place.



 



   (13)   Cherokee Avenue from Selma Avenue to Yucca Street.



 



   (14)   Whitley Avenue from Hollywood Boulevard to Yucca Street.



 



   (15)   Schrader Boulevard from Selma Avenue to Hollywood Boulevard.



 



   (16)   Wilcox Avenue from Selma Avenue to Franklin Avenue.



 



   (17)   Cahuenga Boulevard from Selma Avenue to Franklin Ave.



 



   (18)   Cosmo Street from Selma Avenue to Hollywood Boulevard.



 



   (19)   Ivar Street from Selma Avenue to Yucca Street.



 



   (20)   Vine Street from Sunset Boulevard to Yucca Street.



 



   (21)   Argyle Avenue from Selma Avenue to Yucca Street.



 



   (22)   Vista Del Mar from Hollywood Boulevard to Carlos Street.



 



   (23)   EI Centro Avenue from Selma Avenue to Hollywood Boulevard.



 



   (24)   Gower Avenue from Selma Avenue to Hollywood Boulevard.



 



   47.   Northridge Parking Meter Zone - $1.00 per hour.  This zone
includes:



 



   (A)   The following street segments:



 



   (1)   Reseda Boulevard from Halsted Street to Roscoe Boulevard.



 



   (2)   Nordhoff Street from Baird Avenue to Darby Avenue.



 



   (3)   Rayen Street from Baird Avenue to Canby Avenue.



 



   (4)   Gresham Street from Baird Avenue to Canby Avenue.



 



   (5)   Eddy Street from Baird Avenue to Darby Avenue.



 



   (6)   Parthenia Street from Yolanda Avenue to Lindley Avenue.



 



   (7)   Bryant Street from Amigo Avenue to Darby Avenue.



 



   (8)   Napa Street from Amigo Avenue to Darby Avenue.



 



   (9)   Malden Street from Amigo Avenue to Reseda Boulevard.



 



   (10)   Chase Street from Amigo Avenue to Canby Avenue.



 



   (11)   Amigo Avenue from Parthenia Street to Chase Street.



 



   (12)   Baird Avenue from Nordhoff Street to Eddy Street.



 



   (13)   Darby Avenue from Eddy Street to Napa Street.



 



   48.   Pico-Westwood Parking Meter Zone - $1.00 per hour.  This zone
includes:



 



   (A)   All streets within the area bound by the following street
segments:



 



   (1)   Olympic Boulevard from the San Diego Freeway to Fox Hills
Drive.



 



   (2)   Fox Hills Drive from Olympic Boulevard to Pico Boulevard.



 



   (3)   Pico Boulevard from Fox Hills Drive to Patricia Avenue.



 



   (4)   Patricia Avenue from Pico Boulevard to Cushdon Avenue.



 



   (5)   Cushdon Avenue from Patricia Avenue to Manning Avenue.



 



   (6)   Manning Avenue from Cushdon Avenue to Ashby Avenue.



 



   (7)   Ashby Avenue from Manning Avenue to Westwood Boulevard.



 



   (8)   Westwood Boulevard from Ashby Avenue to Exposition Boulevard.



 



   (9)   Exposition Boulevard from Westwood Boulevard to the San Diego
Freeway.



 



   (10)   The San Diego Freeway from Exposition Boulevard to Olympic
Boulevard.



 



   (B)   All boundary street segments set forth in (A) above, except
the San Diego Freeway.



 



   49.   Santa Monica-Western Parking Meter Zone - $1.00 per hour. 
This zone includes:



 



   (A)   All streets within the area bound by the following street
segments:



 



   (1)   Gower Street from Melrose Avenue to Santa Monica Boulevard.



 



   (2)   Santa Monica Boulevard from Gower Street to Wilton Place.



 



   (3)   Wilton Place from Santa Monica Boulevard to Lexington Avenue.



 



   (4)   Lexington Avenue from Wilton Place to Western Avenue.



 



   (5)   Western Avenue from Lexington Avenue to Virginia Avenue.



 



   (6)   Virginia Avenue from Western Avenue to Oxford Avenue.



 



   (7)   Oxford Avenue from Virginia Avenue to Santa Monica Boulevard.



 



   (8)   Santa Monica Boulevard from Oxford Avenue to Normandie Avenue.



 



   (9)   Normandie Avenue from Santa Monica Boulevard to Melrose Avenue.



 



   (10)   Melrose Avenue from Normandie Avenue to Van Ness Avenue.



 



   (11)   Van Ness Avenue from Melrose Avenue to Clinton Street.



 



   (12)   Clinton Street from Van Ness Avenue to Bronson Avenue.



 



   (13)   Bronson Avenue from Clinton Street to Melrose Avenue.



 



   (14)   Melrose Avenue from Bronson Avenue to Gower Street.



 



   (B)   All boundary street segments set forth in (A) above, except
the east side of Normandie Avenue.



 



   (C)   Melrose Avenue from Gower Street to Cahuenga Boulevard.



 



   50.   Fairfax-Olympic Parking Meter Zone - $1.00 per hour.  This
zone includes:



 



   (A)   All streets within the area bound by the following street
segments:



 



   (1)   Fairfax Avenue from Whitworth Drive to 8th Street.



 



   (2)   8th Street from Fairfax Avenue to Stanley Avenue.



 



   (3)   Stanley Avenue from 8th Street to Whitworth Drive.



 



   (4)   Whitworth Drive from Stanley Avenue to Fairfax Avenue.



 



   (B)   All boundary street segments set forth in (A) above, except
8th Street.



 



   51.   Sunset-Vermont Parking Meter Zone - $1.00 per hour.  This
zone includes:



 



   (A)   The following street segments:



 



   (1)   Sunset Boulevard from Winona Boulevard to Fountain Avenue.



 



   (2)   All street intersecting Sunset Boulevard between Normandie
Avenue and Hollywood Boulevard, from Sunset Boulevard to the end of the
contiguous commercial properties northerly and southerly thereof.



 



   (3)   Fountain Avenue from the alley west of Edgemont Street to
Sunset Boulevard.



 



   (4)   All street intersecting Fountain Avenue between Edgemont
Street and Vermont Avenue, including Edgemont Street, from Fountain Avenue to
the end of the contiguous commercial properties northerly and southerly
thereof.



 



   (5)   Vermont Avenue from Hollywood Boulevard to Lexington Avenue.



 



   (6)   All streets intersecting Vermont Avenue between Hollywood
Boulevard and Lexington Avenue, from Vermont Avenue to the end of the
contiguous commercial properties easterly and westerly thereof.



 



   (7)   Lexington Avenue from New Hampshire Avenue to Madison Avenue.



 



   52.   Hollywood-Western Parking Meter Zone - $1.00 per hour.  This
zone includes:



 



   (A)   The following street segments:



 



   (1)   Western Avenue from Franklin Avenue to Fountain Avenue.



 



   (2)   All streets intersecting Western Avenue between Franklin
Avenue and Fountain Avenue, from Western Avenue to the end of the contiguous
commercial properties easterly and westerly thereof.



 



   (3)   Hollywood Boulevard from Van Ness Avenue to Edgemont Street.



 



   (4)   All streets intersecting Hollywood Boulevard between Van Ness
Avenue and Edgemont Street, from Hollywood Boulevard to the end of the
contiguous commercial properties northerly and southerly thereof.



 



   (5)   Sunset Boulevard from Wilton Place to Winona Boulevard.



 



   (6)   All streets intersecting Sunset Boulevard between Wilton Place
and Winona Boulevard, from Sunset Boulevard to the end of the contiguous
commercial properties northerly and southerly thereof.



 



   53.   Civic Center Parking Meter Zone.



 



   (I)   Sub-Zone I - $4.00 per hour.  Sub-Zone I includes:



 



   (A)   All streets within the area bound by the following street
segments:



 



   (1)   1st Street from Beaudry Avenue to Hill Street.



 



   (2)   Hill Street from 1st Street to 4th Street.



 



   (3)   4th Street from Hill Street to Beaudry Avenue.



 



   (4)   Beaudry Avenue from 4th Street to 1st Street.



 



   (B)   The following street segments:



 



   (1)   Beaudry Avenue from 4th Street to 1st Street.



 



   (2)   Grand Avenue from 4th Street to Hope Place.



 



   (II)   Sub-Zone II - $3.00 per hour.  Sub-Zone II includes:



 



   (A)   All streets within the area bound by the following street
segments:



 



   (1)   Cesar E. Chavez Avenue from Hill Street to Alameda Street.



 



   (2)   Alameda Street from Cesar E. Chavez Avenue to 1st Street.



 



   (3)   1st Street from Alameda Street to Los Angeles Street.



 



   (4)   Los Angeles Street from 1st Street to 4th Street.



 



   (5)   4th Street from Los Angeles Street to Hill Street.



 



   (6)   Hill Street from 4th Street to 1st Street.



 



   (7)   1st Street from Hill Street to Dewap Road.



 



   (8)   Dewap Road from 1st Street to Temple Street.



 



   (9)   Temple Street from Dewap Road to Hill Street.



 



   (10)   Hill Street from Temple Street to Cesar E. Chavez Avenue.



 



   (B)   All boundary street segments set forth in (A) above, except:



 



   (1)   Cesar E. Chavez Avenue from Hill Street to Broadway.



 



   (2)   1st Street from Alameda Street to Los Angeles Street.



 



   (3)   4th Street.



 



   (III)   Sub-Zone III - $1.00 per hour for each of the first four
hours and a total of $4.00 for up to ten hours as permitted by the posted
parking regulations.  Sub-Zone III includes:



 



   (A)   All streets within the area bound by the following street
segments:



 



   (1)   Sunset Boulevard from Beaudry Avenue to Cesar E. Chavez Avenue.



 



   (2)   Cesar E. Chavez Avenue from Sunset Boulevard to Hill Street.



 



   (3)   Hill Street from Cesar E. Chavez Avenue to Temple Street.



 



   (4)   Temple Street from Hill Street to Dewap Road.



 



   (5)   Dewap Road from Temple Street to 1st Street.



 



   (6)   1st Street from Dewap Road to Beaudry Avenue.



 



   (7)   Beaudry Avenue from 1st Street to Sunset Boulevard.



 



   (B)   All boundary street segments set forth in (A) above, except:



 



   (1)   Hill Street.



 



   (2)   Temple Street.



 



   (3)   Dewap Road.



 



   (C)   The following street segments:



 



   (1)   Cesar E. Chavez Street from Hill Street to Broadway.



 



   (2)   Bunker Hill Avenue from Cesar E. Chavez Street to Bartlett
Street.



 



   (3)   Grand Avenue from Cesar E. Chavez Street to Bartlett Street.



 



   54.   Chinatown Parking Meter Zone - $2.00 per hour.  This zone
includes:



 



   (A)   All streets within the area bound by the following street
segments:



 



   (1)   The Pasadena Freeway from Sunset Boulevard to Stadium Way.



 



   (2)   Stadium Way from the Pasadena Freeway to North Broadway.



 



   (3)   North Broadway from Stadium Way to College Street.



 



   (4)   College Street from North Broadway to Alameda Street.



 



   (5)   Alameda Street from College Street to Cesar E. Chavez Avenue.



 



   (6)   Cesar E. Chavez Avenue from Alameda Street to Grand Avenue.



 



   (7)   Grand Avenue from Cesar E. Chavez Avenue to Bartlett Street.



 



   (8)   Bartlett Street from Grand Avenue to Bunker Hill Avenue.



 



   (9)   Bunker Hill Avenue from Bartlett Street to Cesar E. Chavez
Avenue.



 



   (10)   Cesar E. Chavez Avenue from Bunker Hill Avenue to Sunset
Boulevard.



 



   (11)   Sunset Boulevard from Cesar E. Chavez Avenue to the Pasadena
Freeway.



 



   (B)   All boundary street segments set forth in (A) above, except:



 



   (1)   The Pasadena Freeway.



 



   (2)   Cesar E. Chavez Avenue.



 



   (3)   Sunset Boulevard.



 



   (4)   Grand Avenue.



 



   (5)   Bunker Hill Avenue.



 



   55.   Little Tokyo Parking Meter Zone - $2.00 per hour.  This zone
includes:



 



   (A)   All streets within the area bound by the following street
segments:



 



   (1)   1st Street from Los Angeles Street to Alameda Street.



 



   (2)   Alameda Street from 1st Street to 4th Street.



 



   (3)   4th Street from Alameda Street to Los Angeles Street.



 



   (4)   Los Angeles Street from 4th Street to 1st Street.



 



   (B)   The following street segments:



 



   (1)   1st Street from Los Angeles Street to Alameda Street.



 



   (2)   The west side of Alameda Street from 1st Street to 4th Street.



 



   56.   Wilshire-Fairfax Parking Meter Zone - $1.00 per hour.  This
zone includes:



 



   (A)   All streets within the area bound by the following street
segments:



 



   (1)   3rd Street from San Vicente Boulevard to Fairfax Avenue.



 



   (2)   Fairfax Avenue from 3rd Street to Wilshire Boulevard.



 



   (3)   Wilshire Boulevard from Fairfax Avenue to San Vicente
Boulevard.



 



   (4)   San Vicente Boulevard from Wilshire Boulevard to 3rd Street.



 



   (B)   All boundary street segments set forth in (A) above.



 



   (C)   All streets intersecting 3rd Street between La Cienega
Boulevard and Fairfax Avenue, from 3rd Street to the end of the contiguous
commercial properties northerly thereof.



 



   (D)   La Cienega Boulevard from San Vicente Boulevard to the City
limits south of Colgate Avenue.



 



   57.   Santa Monica-Vermont-Virgil Parking Meter Zone - $1.00 per
hour.  This zone includes:



 



   (A)   All streets within the area bound by the following street
segments:



 



   (1)   Melrose Avenue from Normandie Avenue to Virgil Avenue.



 



   (2)   Normandie Avenue from Melrose Avenue to Santa Monica Boulevard.



 



   (3)   Santa Monica Boulevard from Normandie Avenue to Kenmore Avenue.



 



   (4)   Kenmore Avenue from Santa Monica Boulevard to Lexington Avenue.



 



   (5)   Lexington Avenue from Kenmore Avenue to Virgil Avenue.



 



   (6)   Virgil Avenue from Lexington Avenue to Melrose Avenue.



 



   (B)   All boundary street segments set forth in (A) above, except:



 



   (1)   Lexington Avenue from New Hampshire Avenue to Madison Avenue.



 



   (2)   The west side of Normandie Avenue.



 



   (C)   The following street segments:



 



   (1)   Virgil Avenue from Melrose Avenue to the Hollywood Freeway.



 



   (2)   Heliotrope Drive from Melrose Avenue to the end of the
contiguous commercial properties southerly thereof.



 



   58.   La Brea-Melrose Parking Meter Zone.



 



   (I)   Sub-Zone I - $1.00 per hour.  Sub-Zone I includes:



 



   (A)   The following street segments:



 



   (1)   Melrose Avenue from Gardner Street to La Brea Avenue.



 



   (2)   All streets intersecting Melrose Avenue between Gardner Street
and La Brea Avenue, from Melrose Avenue to the end of the contiguous
commercial properties northerly and southerly thereof.



 



   (II)   Sub-Zone II - $1.00 per hour.  Sub-Zone II includes:



 



   (A)   The following street segments:



 



   (1)   La Brea Avenue from Romaine Street to 3rd Street.



 



   (2)   All streets intersecting La Brea Avenue between Romaine Street
and 3rd Street, from La Brea Avenue to the end of the contiguous commercial
properties easterly and westerly thereof.



 



   (3)   Melrose Avenue from La Brea Avenue to Highland Avenue.



 



   (4)   All streets intersecting Melrose Avenue between La Brea Avenue
and Highland Avenue, from Melrose Avenue to the end of the contiguous
commercial properties northerly and southerly thereof.



 



   (5)   Beverly Boulevard from Gardner Street to La Brea Avenue.



 



   (6)   All streets intersecting Beverly Boulevard between Gardner
Street and La Brea Avenue, from Beverly Boulevard to the end of the
contiguous commercial properties northerly and southerly thereof.



 



   59.   Encino Parking Meter Zone - $1.00 per hour.  This zone
includes:



 



   (A)   The following street segments:



 



   (1)   Ventura Boulevard from Lindley Avenue to the San Diego Freeway.



 



   (2)   All streets intersecting Ventura Boulevard between Lindley
Avenue and the San Diego Freeway, including Lindley Avenue, from Ventura
Boulevard to the end of the contiguous commercial properties northerly and
southerly thereof.



 



   60.   Wilshire-Union Parking Meter Zone.



 



   (I)   Sub-Zone I - $1.00 per hour.  Sub-Zone I includes:



 



   (A)   All streets within the area bound by the following street
segments:



 



   (1)   3rd Street from Burlington Avenue to Bixel Street.



 



   (2)   Bixel Street from 3rd Street to 6th Street.



 



   (3)   6th Street from Bixel Street to Burlington Avenue.



 



   (4)   Burlington Avenue from 6th Street to 3rd Street.



 



   (B)   All boundary street segments set forth in (A) above, except
6th Street.



 



   (II)   Sub-Zone II - $1.00 per hour.  Sub-Zone II includes:



 



   (A)   All streets within the area bound by the following street
segments:



 



   (1)   3rd Street from Bixel Street to 4th Street.



 



   (2)   4th Street from 3rd Street to the Harbor Freeway.



 



   (3)   The Harbor Freeway from 4th Street to 7th Street.



 



   (4)   7th Street from the Harbor Freeway to Burlington Avenue.



 



   (5)   Burlington Avenue from 7th Street to 6th Street.



 



   (6)   6th Street from Burlington Avenue to Bixel Street.



 



   (7)   Bixel Street from 6th Street to 3rd Street.



 



   (B)   All boundary street segments set forth in (A) above, except:



 



   (1)   The Harbor Freeway.



 



   (2)   Bixel Street.



 



   (III)   Sub-Zone III - $1.00 per hour.  Sub-Zone III includes:



 



   (A)   All streets within the are bound by the following street
segments:



 



   (1)   7th Street from Burlington Avenue to the Harbor Freeway.



 



   (2)   The Harbor Freeway from 7th Street to 11th Street.



 



   (3)   11th Street from the Harbor Freeway to Burlington Avenue.



 



   (4)   Burlington Avenue from 11th Street to 7th Street.



 



   (B)   All boundary streets set forth in (A) above, except:



 



   (1)   7th Street.



 



   (2)   The Harbor Freeway.



 



   (C)   8th Street from the Harbor Freeway to Francisco Street.



 



   61.   Wilshire-San Vicente Parking Meter Zone - $1.00 per hour. 
This zone includes:



 



   (A)   All streets within the area bound by the following street
segments:



 



   (1)   San Vicente Boulevard from Mayfield Avenue to Federal Avenue.



 



   (2)   Federal Avenue from San Vicente Boulevard to Texas Avenue.



 



   (3)   Texas Avenue from Federal Avenue to Centinela Avenue.



 



   (4)   Centinela Avenue from Texas Avenue to Wilshire Boulevard.



 



   (5)   Wilshire Boulevard from Centinela Avenue to McClellan Drive.



 



   (6)   McClellan Drive from Wilshire Boulevard to Goshen Avenue.



 



   (7)   Goshen Avenue from McClellan Drive to Bundy Drive.



 



   (8)   Bundy Drive from Goshen Avenue to Mayfield Avenue.



 



   (9)   Mayfield Avenue from Bundy Drive to San Vicente Boulevard.



 



   (B)   All boundary street segments set forth in (A) above, except
Mayfield Avenue.



 



   (C)   Carmelina Avenue from Wilshire Boulevard to the end of the
contiguous commercial properties northerly thereof.



 



   62.   Washington-Pacific Parking Meter Zone.



 



   (I)   Sub-Zone I - $1.00 per hour from October 1 through April 30;
$2.00 per hour from May 1 through September 30.  Sub-Zone I includes:



 



   (A)   All streets within the area bound by the following street
segments:



 



   (1)   Washington Boulevard from Ocean Front Walk to the Venice Canal.



 



   (2)   Ocean Front Walk from Washington Boulevard to South Venice
Boulevard.



 



   (3)   South Venice Boulevard from Ocean Front Walk to the Venice
Canal.



 



   (4)   The Venice Canal from South Venice Boulevard to Washington
Boulevard.



 



   (B)   All boundary street segments set forth in (A) above, except:



 



   (1)   South Venice Boulevard.



 



   (2)   The Venice Canal.



 



   (II)   Sub-Zone II - $1.00 per hour.  Sub-Zone II includes:



 



   (A)   All streets within the area bound by the following street
segments:



 



   (1)   Washington Boulevard from the Venice Canal to the City limits
at Mildred Avenue.



 



   (2)   The City limits at Mildred Avenue from Washington Boulevard to
Lincoln Boulevard.



 



   (3)   Lincoln Boulevard from the City limits at the Marina
Expressway to South Venice Boulevard.



 



   (4)   South Venice Boulevard from Lincoln Boulevard to the Venice
Canal.



 



   (5)   The Venice Canal from South Venice Boulevard to Washington
Boulevard.



 



   (B)   All boundary street segments set forth in (A) above, except:



 



   (1)   The City limits.



 



   (2)   South Venice Boulevard.



 



   (3)   The Venice Canal.



 



   (C)   All streets intersecting Lincoln Boulevard between the City
limits at Mildred Avenue and South Venice Boulevard, from Lincoln Boulevard
to the end of the contiguous commercial properties northeasterly thereof.



 



   (D)   The following street segments:



 



   (1)   The Grand Canal from Washington Boulevard to Anchorage Street.



 



   (2)   Via Dolce from Washington Boulevard to the end of the
contiguous commercial properties south of Washington Boulevard.



 



   63.   Vermont-Slauson Parking Meter Zone - $1.00 per hour.  This
zone includes:



 



   (A)   The following street segments:



 



   (1)   Vermont Avenue from 57th Street to 59th Place.



 



   (2)   All streets intersecting Vermont Avenue between 57th Street
and 59th Place, including 57th Street, from Vermont Avenue to the end of the
contiguous commercial properties easterly and westerly thereof.



 



   64.   Pico-Crenshaw Parking Meter Zone - $1.00 per hour.  This zone
includes:



 



   (A)   The following street segments:



 



   (1)   Pico Boulevard from San Vicente Boulevard to Arlington Avenue.



 



   (2)   All street intersecting Pico Boulevard between San Vicente
Boulevard and Arlington Avenue, from Pico Boulevard to the end of the
contiguous commercial properties northerly and southerly thereof.



 



   65.   East Downtown Parking Meter Zone - $1.00 per hour for each of
the first four hours and a total of $4.00 for up to ten hours as permitted by
the posted parking regulations.  This zone includes:



 



   (A)   All streets within the area bound by the following street
segments:



 



   (1)   4th Street from San Pedro Street to Alameda Street.



 



   (2)   Alameda Street from 4th Street to the Santa Monica Freeway.



 



   (3)   The Santa Monica Freeway from Alameda Street to San Pedro
Street.



 



   (4)   San Pedro Street from the Santa Monica Freeway to 4th Street.



 



   (B)   All boundary street segments set forth in (A) above, except:



 



   (1)   The Santa Monica Freeway.



 



   (2)   San Pedro Street.



 



   66.   Robertson South Parking Meter Zone - $1.00 per hour.  This
zone includes:



 



   (A)   The following street segments:



 



   (1)   Robertson Boulevard from National Boulevard to Cadillac Avenue.



 



   (2)   All streets intersecting Robertson Boulevard between
Cattaraugus Avenue and Cadillac Avenue, including Cattaraugus Avenue, from
Robertson Boulevard to the alleys easterly and westerly thereof.



 



   67.   Reserved.



 



   68.   County Medical Center Parking Meter Zone - $1.00 per hour. 
This zone includes:



 



   (A)   All streets within the area bound by the following street
segments:



 



   (1)   Mission Road from the Golden State Freeway to Valley Boulevard.



 



   (2)   Valley Boulevard from Mission Road to Soto Street.



 



   (3)   Soto Street from Valley Boulevard to the San Bernardino
Freeway.



 



   (4)   The San Bernardino Freeway from Soto Street to the Golden
State Freeway.



 



   (5)   The Golden State Freeway from the San Bernardino Freeway to
Mission Road.



 



   (B)   All boundary street segments set forth in (A) above, except:



 



   (1)   The San Bernardino Freeway.



 



   (2)   The Golden State Freeway.



 



   (C)   All streets intersecting the boundary street segments set
forth in (A) above, except the San Bernardino Freeway and the Golden State
Freeway, from the boundary street segments to the end of the contiguous
commercial properties outwardly thereof.



 



   69.   Reserved.



 



   70.   Mar Vista Parking Meter Zone - $1.00 per hour.  This zone
includes:



 



   (A)   All streets within the area bound by the following street
segments:



 



   (1)   North Venice Boulevard from Stewart Avenue to Centinela Avenue.



 



   (2)   Centinela Avenue from North Venice Boulevard to Victoria
Avenue.



 



   (3)   Victoria Avenue from Centinela Avenue to Mountain View Avenue.



 



   (4)   Mountain View Avenue from Victoria Avenue to North Venice
Boulevard.



 



   (5)   North Venice Boulevard from Mountain View Avenue to Inglewood
Boulevard.



 



   (6)   Inglewood Boulevard from North Venice Boulevard to Mitchell
Avenue.



 



   (7)   Mitchell Avenue from Inglewood Boulevard to Centinela Avenue.



 



   (8)   Centinela Avenue from Mitchell Avenue to Pacific Avenue.



 



   (9)   Pacific Avenue from Centinela Avenue to Frances Avenue.



 



   (10)   Frances Avenue from Pacific Avenue to South Venice Boulevard.



 



   (11)   South Venice Boulevard from Frances Avenue to Stewart Avenue.



 



   (B)   All boundary street segments set forth in (A) above.



 



   (C)   All streets intersecting North Venice Boulevard between
Stewart Avenue and Inglewood Boulevard, including Stewart Avenue and
Inglewood Boulevard, from North Venice Boulevard to the end of the contiguous
commercial properties northerly thereof.



 



   71.   Reserved.



 



   72.   Pico-La Brea Parking Meter Zone - $1.00 per hour.  This zone
includes:



 



   (A)   All streets within the area bound by the following street
segments:



 



   (1)   San Vicente Boulevard from Redondo Boulevard to Venice
Boulevard.



 



   (2)   Venice Boulevard from San Vicente Boulevard to West Boulevard.



 



   (3)   West Boulevard from Venice Boulevard to 23rd Street.



 



   (4)   23rd Street from West Boulevard to Vineyard Avenue.



 



   (5)   Vineyard Avenue from 23rd Street to 21st Street.



 



   (6)   21st Street from Vineyard Avenue to Dunsmuir Avenue.



 



   (7)   Dunsmuir Avenue from 21st Street to Saturn Street.



 



   (8)   Saturn Street from Dunsmuir Avenue to Fairfax Avenue.



 



   (9)   Fairfax Avenue from Saturn Street to Packard Street.



 



   (10)   Packard Street from Fairfax Avenue to Redondo Boulevard.



 



   (11)   Redondo Boulevard from Packard Street to San Vicente
Boulevard.



 



   (B)   All boundary street segments set forth in (A) above, except
Fairfax Avenue.



 



   73.   Silver Lake Parking Meter Zone - $1.00 per hour.  This zone
includes:



 



   (A)   All streets within the area bound by the following street
segments:



 



   (1)   Sunset Boulevard from Waterloo Street to Fountain Avenue.



 



   (2)   Fountain Avenue from Sunset Boulevard to Hyperion Avenue.



 



   (3)   Hyperion Avenue from Fountain Avenue to Rowena Avenue.



 



   (4)   Rowena Avenue from Hyperion Avenue to Glendale Boulevard.



 



   (5)   Glendale Boulevard from Rowena Avenue to Reservoir Street.



 



   (6)   Reservoir Street from Glendale Boulevard to Waterloo Street.



 



   (7)   Waterloo Street from Reservoir Street to Sunset Boulevard.



 



   (B)   All boundary street segments set forth in (A) above, except
Reservoir Street from Glendale Boulevard to Alvarado Street.



 



   (C)   All streets intersecting the boundary street segments set
forth in (A) above, except Sunset Boulevard, Reservoir Street, and Waterloo
Street, from the boundary street segments to the end of the contiguous
commercial properties outwardly thereof.



 



   (D)   The following street segments:



 



   (1)   Sunset Boulevard from Waterloo Street to Rosemont Avenue.



 



   (2)   All streets intersecting Sunset Boulevard between Fountain
Avenue and Rosemont Avenue, from Sunset Boulevard to the end of the
contiguous commercial properties southerly thereof.



 



   74.   Olympic-Sawtelle Parking Meter Zone - $1.00 per hour.  This
zone includes:



 



   (A)   All streets within the area bound by the following street
segments:



 



   (1)   The Santa Monica Freeway from the City limits at Centinela
Avenue to the San Diego Freeway.



 



   (2)   The City limits at Centinela Avenue from the Santa Monica
Freeway to Olympic Boulevard.



 



   (3)   Olympic Boulevard from the City limits at Centinela Avenue to
Bundy Drive.



 



   (4)   Bundy Drive from Olympic Boulevard to La Grange Avenue.



 



   (5)   La Grange Avenue from Bundy Drive to the San Diego Freeway.



 



   (6)   The San Diego Freeway from La Grange Avenue to the Santa
Monica Freeway.



 



   (B)   All boundary street segments set forth in (A) above, except:



 



   (1)   The Santa Monica Freeway.



 



   (2)   The San Diego Freeway.



 



   (3)   The City limits.



 



   75.   Tarzana Parking Meter Zone - $1.00 per hour.  This zone
includes:



 



   (A)   All streets within the area bound by the following street
segments:



 



   (1)   Ventura Boulevard from Corbin Avenue to Lindley Avenue.



 



   (2)   Corbin Avenue from Ventura Boulevard to the Ventura Freeway.



 



   (3)   The Ventura Freeway from Corbin Avenue to Lindley Avenue.



 



   (4)   Lindley Avenue from the Ventura Freeway to Ventura Boulevard.



 



   (B)   All boundary street segments set forth in (A) above, except:



 



   (1)   The Ventura Freeway.



 



   (2)   Lindley Avenue.



 



   (C)   All streets intersecting Ventura Boulevard between Corbin
Avenue and Lindley Avenue, including Corbin Avenue, from Ventura Boulevard to
the end of the contiguous commercial properties southerly thereof.



 



   76.   Reserved.



 



   77.   Woodland Hills Parking Meter Zone - $1.00 per hour.  This
zone includes:



 



   (A)   The following street segments:



 



   (1)   Ventura Boulevard from Woodlake Avenue to Corbin Avenue.



 



   (2)   All streets intersecting Ventura Boulevard between Woodlake
Avenue and Corbin Avenue, from Ventura Boulevard to the end of the contiguous
commercial properties northerly and southerly thereof.



 



   (3)   Topanga Canyon Boulevard from the Ventura Freeway to Avenue
San Luis.



 



   (4)   All streets intersecting Topanga Canyon Boulevard between
Ventura Boulevard and Avenue San Luis, including Avenue San Luis, from
Topanga Canyon Boulevard to the end of the contiguous commercial properties
easterly and westerly thereof.



 



   (5)   Farralone Avenue from Topanga Canyon Boulevard to the Ventura
Freeway.



 



   (6)   Clarendon Street from Farralone Avenue to Topanga Canyon
Boulevard.



 



   78.   Toluca Lake Parking Meter Zone - $1.00 per hour.  This zone
includes:



 



   (A)   The following street segments:



 



   (1)   Riverside Drive from Sancola Avenue to Ponca Avenue.



 



   (2)   All streets intersecting Riverside Drive between Sancola
Avenue and Ponca Avenue, including Sancola Avenue and Ponca Avenue, from
Riverside Drive to the end of the contiguous commercial properties northerly
and southerly thereof.



 



   79.   Universal City Parking Meter Zone - $1.00 per hour.  This
zone includes:



 



   (A)   The following street segments:



 



   (1)   Cahuenga Boulevard from Lankershim Boulevard to Barham
Boulevard.



 



   (2)   All streets intersecting Cahuenga Boulevard between Lankershim
Boulevard and Barham Boulevard, from Cahuenga Boulevard to the end of the
contiguous commercial properties northerly and southerly thereof.



 



   (3)   Lankershim Boulevard from Cahuenga Boulevard to the alley
southerly thereof.



 



   80.   Washington-Broadway Parking Meter Zone - $1.00 per hour for
each of the first four hours and a total of $4.00 for up to ten hours as
permitted by the posted parking regulations.  This zone includes:



 



   (A)   All streets within the area bound by the following street
segments:



 



   (1)   The Santa Monica Freeway from the Harbor Freeway to San Pedro
Street.



 



   (2)   San Pedro Street from the Santa Monica Freeway to Adams
Boulevard.



 



   (3)   Adams Boulevard from San Pedro Street to Flower Street.



 



   (4)   Flower Street from Adams Boulevard to 23rd Street.



 



   (5)   23rd Street from Flower Street to the Harbor Freeway.



 



   (6)   The Harbor Freeway from 23rd Street to the Santa Monica
Freeway.



 



   (B)   All boundary street segments set forth in (A) above, except:



 



   (1)   The Harbor Freeway.



 



   (2)   The Santa Monica Freeway.



 



   (C)   Olive Street from the Santa Monica Freeway to 17th Street.



 



   81.   Alameda-East Parking Meter Zone - $1.00 per hour for each of
the first four hours and a total of $4.00 for up to ten hours as permitted by
the posted parking regulations.  This zone includes:



 



   (A)   All streets within the area bound by the following street
segments:



 



   (1)   Alameda Street from the Santa Ana Freeway to 4th Street.



 



   (2)   The Santa Ana Freeway from Alameda Street to the Los Angeles
River.



 



   (3)   The Los Angeles River from the Santa Ana Freeway to 4th Street.



 



   (4)   4th Street from the Los Angeles River to Alameda Street.



 



   (B)   The following street segments:



 



   (1)   The east side of Alameda Street from 1st Street to 4th Street.



 



   (2)   4th Street from the Los Angeles River to Alameda Street.



 



   82.   Broadway-Slauson Parking Meter Zone - $1.00 per hour for each
of the first four hours and a total of $4.00 for up to ten hours as permitted
by the posted parking regulations.  This zone includes:



 



   (A)   All streets within the area bound by the following street
segments:



 



   (1)   Slauson Avenue from Broadway to Woodlawn Avenue.



 



   (2)   Woodlawn Avenue from Slauson Avenue to 59th Place.



 



   (3)   59th Place from Woodlawn Avenue to Main Street.



 



   (4)   Main Street from 59th Place to Gage Avenue.



 



   (5)   Gage Avenue from Main Street to Broadway.



 



   (6)   Broadway from Gage Avenue to Slauson Avenue.



 



   (B)   All boundary street segments set forth in (A) above.



 



   83.   Westchester Parking Meter Zone - $1.00 per hour.  This zone
includes:



 



   (A)   All streets within the area bounded by the following street
segments, including the boundary streets, except for Arbor Vitae Street and
La Cienega Boulevard:



 



   (1)   Sepulveda Boulevard between Century Boulevard and 92nd Street.



 



   (2)   92nd Street between Sepulveda Boulevard and Sepulveda Westway.



 



   (3)   Sepulveda Westway between 92nd Street and Manchester Avenue.



 



   (4)   Manchester Avenue between Sepulveda Westway and City limit
east of Osage Avenue.



 



   (5)   City limit east of Osage Avenue between Manchester Avenue and
Arbor Vitae Street.



 



   (6)   Arbor Vitae Street between City limit east of Bellanca Avenue
and La Cienega Boulevard.



 



   (7)   La Cienega Boulevard between Arbor Vitae Street and 104th
Street.



 



   (8)   104th Street between La Cienega Boulevard and Aviation
Boulevard.



 



   (9)   Aviation Boulevard between 104th Street and Century Boulevard.



 



   (10)   Century Boulevard between Aviation Boulevard and Sepulveda
Boulevard.



 



 



SEC. 88.00.1.  COMMERCIAL LOADING ZONE RATES ESTABLISHED FOR VEHICLES WITH
PERSONAL PARKING METERS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 170,019, Eff. 10/21/94.)



 



   The following rates are hereby established for commercial vehicles that
utilize personal parking meters when parking in commercial loading zones,
designated by signs or yellow curb paint, time limit zones and no parking
zones.



 



 


Time

 

Charge




0 to 30 minutes

 

-

 
free



31 to 60 minutes

 

-

 
$1.00



61 to 120 minutes

 

-

 
$2.00 additional



121 to 180 minutes

 

-

 
$3.00 additional



181 to 240 minutes

 

-

 
$4.00 additional



 



 



SEC. 88.00.2.  DEMAND-BASED PARKING METER RATES ESTABLISHED.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 182,791, Eff. 11/22/13.)



 



   The Department is hereby authorized to increase or decrease parking
meter rates by no greater than 100 percent from the rates prescribed in
Section 88.00, but no less than a rate of $0.50 per hour for each of the
first four hours and a total of $2.00 for up to ten hours as permitted by the
posted parking regulations.



 



   (a)   The rates established by the Department under the authority of
this Section shall be based on parking demand, as reviewed by traffic
investigation and surveys, with the goal of reaching occupancy by vehicles at
the rate of 70 to 90 percent for parking meter spaces on each block at such
times and hours that payment is required.  The Department shall report to
the City Council not less frequently than once per year on any actions taken
pursuant to this Section and the impact(s) of those actions or revenue and
meter usage.



 



 



SEC. 88.01.  INSTALLATION OF PARKING METERS AUTHORIZED.



 



   The Department is hereby authorized and directed to install or caused
to be installed, parking meters in all parking meter zones hereby established
or hereafter created by the Council of the City of Los Angeles, in such
numbers as may be designated by said Council and in such places in parking
meter zones as may be determined by said Council  be necessary to the
regulation, control and inspection,  of the parking of vehicles therein,
said determination shall be based upon good traffic engineering principles,
traffic investigation and surveys made from time to time by the Department of
Transportation. (Amended by Ord. No. 151,833, Eff 2/10/79, Oper. 2/25/79.)



 



   (a)   Parking meters installed in parking meter zones shall be
placed upon the curb or area adjacent to the parking meter spaces hereinafter
described.  (Amended by Ord. No. 180,092, Eff. 9/7/08.)



 



   (b)   No other officer, board or department of this City, and no
private agency or person, shall install or place any parking meter within the
purview of this division except upon the order of the Department. (Amended by
Ord. No. 134,523, Eff. 7/17/67.)



 



   (c)   For the convenience of the public, parking meters may be
installed which accept coins of a greater monetary value than that which is
required for the parking space for which the meter is installed. (Added by
Ord. No. 144,115, Eff. 12/31/72.)



 



 



SEC. 88.01.1.  AUTHORITY TO EXTEND TIME AND TO CHARGE FOR PARKING IN
COMMERCIAL LOADING ZONES, TIME LIMIT ZONES AND NO PARKING ZONES.



   (Added by Ord. No. 170,019, Eff. 10/21/94.)



 



   The Department is hereby authorized and directed to permit commercial
vehicles to park up to a maximum of four hours in commercial loading zone,
designated by signs or yellow curb paint, time limit zones with a posted
limit of one or more hours, and no parking zones, when such vehicles are
engaged in loading or unloading activities and are equipped with an activated
personal parking meter, approved by the Department, that charges for time
pursuant to the rate schedule set forth in Section 88.00.1 of this chapter.



 



 



SEC. 88.02.  MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR OF PARKING METERS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 134,523, Eff. 7/17/67.)



 



   The Department is hereby authorized and directed to repair, maintain,
replace and otherwise keep said parking meters in good working order and
condition at all times or cause the same to be done.



 



   (a)   No other officer, board or department of this City, and no
private agency or person, shall repair, maintain or replace any parking meter
within the purview of this division except upon the order of the Department.



 



   (b)   All persons engaged in repairing, maintaining, replacing or
otherwise working upon said parking meters shall bear identification showing
that such persons are authorized to do such repair, maintenance or
replacement work. (Relettered (b) by Ord. No. 159,561, Eff. 1/17/85.)



 



 



SEC. 88.02.1.  SALE, MAINTENANCE, REPAIR AND COLLECTION OF PERSONAL PARKING
METERS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 170,019, Eff. 10/21/94.)



 



   The Department shall not be responsible for the sale, maintenance or
repair of personal parking meters permitted for use in commercial loading
zones, time limit zones and no parking zones, except to the extent necessary
to exercise complete control and responsibility for the collection of all
revenues generated by their use.



 



 



SEC. 88.03.  PARKING METER SPACES TO BE INDICATED AND MAINTAINED.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 180,092, Eff. 9/7/08.)



 



   The Department shall cause distinct lines or markings to be painted or
placed, replaced and maintained upon the curb or roadway adjacent to each
parking meter for the purpose of designating the parking meter space or
spaces for which said meter is to be used.  Said lines or markings shall be
so painted or placed as to permit parking in the manner provided by the
California Vehicle Code.



 



   (a)   It shall be unlawful when such lines or markings are in place
for any person to park, stop or stand any vehicle other than completely
within the confines or limits of such parking meter space.



 



 



SEC. 88.03.1.  COMMERCIAL LOADING ZONES, TIME LIMIT ZONES AND NO PARKING
ZONES – WHEN PERSONAL PARKING METERS REQUIRED.



   (Added by Ord. No. 170,019, Eff. 10/21/94.)



 



   When the operator of a commercial vehicle first parks such vehicle in a
commercial loading zone, time limit zone or no parking zone with the intent
to remain for a period of time in excess of thirty (30) minutes, he/she shall
activate and display within the vehicle, in accordance with Section 88.06.1,
a personal parking meter approved by the Department.



 



 



SEC. 88.04.  TIME OF PARKING IN PARKING METER ZONES.



 



   The maximum legal parking time for each portion of the area or areas
described in Section 80.00 hereof shall be as determined from time to time by
the Department. Said determination shall be based upon good traffic
engineering principles, traffic investigation and surveys made from time to
time.  (Amended by Ord. No. 134,523, Eff. 7/17/67.)



 



   (a)   Said maximum legal parking time in parking meter zones, except
as provided in Section 88.01.1, shall not be in excess of the maximum legal
parking time as prescribed and determined and posted by said commissioners or
by such other department or bureau authorized to so determine and so post, as
provided elsewhere in this chapter.  (Amended by Ord. No. 170,019, Eff.
10/21/94.)



 



   (b)   Nothing contained herein shall be deemed or construed to
permit parking during times or hours prohibited elsewhere in this chapter.



 



 



SEC. 88.05.  PARKING METERS – TIMES FOR OPERATION.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 180,092, Eff. 9/7/08.)



 



   Provisions of this division which require payment of parking meters
located on City streets shall apply at such times and hours as may be
determined from time to time by the Department, based upon engineering and
traffic investigation.  Such times and hours shall be indicated by signs or
on the parking meter; provided, however, that the Department may, in its
discretion, from time to time prohibit all parking in areas included in the
parking meter zones during times of emergency by causing the appropriate "NO
PARKING" signs to be posted.



 



 



SEC. 88.05.1.  PERSONAL PARKING METERS – HOURS OF OPERATION.



   (Added by Ord. No. 170,019, Eff. 10/21/94.)



 



   The hours of operation for the use of personal parking meters, when
permitted, in commercial loading zones, time limit zones and no parking
zones, shall be 7:00 AM to 6:00 PM on any day except Sunday.  Such devices
do not exempt vehicles from “No Stopping” restrictions.



 



 



SEC. 88.06.  OPERATION OF PARKING METERS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 180,092, Eff. 9/7/08.)



 



   Every parking meter shall be set to display, upon payment for a parking
meter space, the period of time for which said payment has been made, and
said parking meter shall continue to display, upon the entry of the parking
meter space number, if applicable, the remaining paid time for said parking
meter space from the time of payment until the expiration of the paid time,
or until a vehicle vacates said parking meter space, whichever is sooner.



 



   Every parking meter shall also be so arranged that upon the expiration
of the parking time for which said payment has been made, and upon the entry
of the parking meter space number, if applicable, it will indicate by a
visible display that the lawful parking time has expired.



 



   Every parking meter shall indicate the legal parking time which has
been or may be established for that area or zone of the street upon which
said parking meter is installed.



 



 



SEC. 88.06.1.  OPERATION OF PERSONAL PARKING METER.



   (Added by Ord. No. 170,019, Eff. 10/21/94.)



 



   Personal parking meters shall be displayed pursuant to instruction of
the Department and shall be activated by the user upon arrival in a
commercial loading zone, time limit zone or no parking zone.  The meter
shall be programmed pursuant to Department requirements, shall display the
hours and minutes parked at a location and shall charge the rates established
in Section 88.00.1.  Upon reaching the maximum of four hours at any one
location, or upon expiration of all prepaid time, the meter shall display the
word “EXPIRED.”  The vehicle shall thereafter be in violation of
applicable parking regulations, and may be cited for a violation of any
applicable “expired meter” parking restriction.



 



 



SEC. 88.07.  PARKING METERS – PAYMENT.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 181,852, Eff. 10/3/11, Oper. 1/1/12.)



 



   When the operator of a vehicle parks in a parking meter zone on a
public street, the operator shall immediately make or cause to be made a
lawful payment for the parking meter adjacent thereto, or, if none, for an
applicable parking meter in the vicinity after entering the assigned parking
meter space number, except when utilizing a personal parking meter as
provided in Sections 88.01.1, 88.03.1 and 88.06.1, at the rates established
and provided therefor in Section 88.00 as modified pursuant to Section
88.00.2 of this Article and in accordance with the payment schedule adopted
by the Department for said parking meter space, as indicated on the parking
meter.



 



 



SEC. 88.08.  COLLECTION OF CASH FROM PARKING METERS.



   (Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 180,092, Eff. 9/7/08.)



 



   The Department shall make or cause to be made regular collections of
the money deposited in said parking meters by uniformed collectors and shall
count or cause to be counted the money contained therein and deliver the same
into the City Treasury to the credit of the Special Parking Revenue Fund.



 



 



SEC. 88.08.1.  COLLECTION OF PERSONAL PARKING METER REVENUE.



   (Added by Ord. No. 170,019, Eff. 10/21/94.)



 



   Personal parking meters shall operate with stored prepaid time.  This
time shall be sold by the Department at the rate of one dollar per hour in
increments of 20 hours.  The meter shall cease to function and shall display
the word “EXPIRED” when all prepaid time has been expended.  The
Department shall establish the mechanism for selling meter time for personal
parking meters and shall deliver the revenue derived from such sale to the
City Treasury to be deposited in the Special Parking Revenue Fund.



 



 



SEC. 88.10.  PARKING METERS AND PARKING METER STANDARDS NOT TO BE USED FOR
CERTAIN PURPOSES.



 



   It shall be unlawful for any person to attach anything or to allow a
bicycle, newsrack or any other article or thing to lean against a parking
meter or a parking meter standard.



 



   (a)   Exemption.  (Added by Ord. No. 183,951, Eff. 12/14/15.) 
Bicycles secured to a Los Angeles Department of Transportation approved
bicycle parking device on a parking meter stand shall be exempt from the
provisions of this section.



 



 



SEC. 88.11.  IMPROPER USE OR MISUSE OF PARKING METERS.



   (Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 180,092, Eff. 9/7/08.)



 



   It shall be unlawful to deposit or cause to be deposited in any parking
meter any defaced or bent coin, or any slug, device, metallic or other
substitute for any money of the United States of America, or for any person
to deface, injure, tamper with, open or willfully break, destroy or impair
the usefulness of any parking meter, or to place any foreign matter or
substance in said parking meter or any part thereof.



 



 



SEC. 88.12.  EXTENDING PARKING TIME FOR A PARKING METER SPACE.



   (Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 180,092, Eff. 9/7/08.)



 



   It shall be unlawful for any person to make or cause to be made a
payment in a parking meter for the purpose of increasing or extending the
parking time of any vehicle beyond the legal parking time which has been
established by the Department for the parking meter space.



 



 



SEC. 88.13.  FAILURE TO PAY FOR A PARKING METER SPACE.



   (Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 180,092, Eff. 9/7/08.)



 



   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park, or to cause,
allow, permit or suffer to be parked, a vehicle in any parking meter space,
except as provided by Sections 88.01.1, 88.03.1 and 88.06.1, without
immediately making or causing to be made a lawful payment at an applicable
parking meter as provided in Section 88.07.



 



   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, allow, permit or
suffer any vehicle to remain in any parking meter space for more than the
time indicated by posted signs or on an applicable parking meter indicating
the maximum parking time allowed in such parking meter space, or during any
time the applicable parking meter is indicating that the time has elapsed for
which lawful payment has been made for said parking meter space; provided,
however, that the provisions of this Section shall not apply to any vehicle
described in Section 80.05, vehicles owned by the City of Los Angeles, or
vehicles operated pursuant to Sections 88.01.1, 88.03.1 and 88.06.1.



 



 



SEC. 88.13.1.  FAILURE TO ACTIVATE PERSONAL PARKING METER.



   (Added by Ord. No. 170,019, Eff. 10/21/94.)



 



   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park, or to cause,
allow, permit or suffer to be parked, a commercial vehicle in any commercial
loading zone, time limit zone or no parking zone for a period exceeding 30
minutes unless  such person activates and displays within the vehicle a
personal parking meter, approved by the Department, that indicates the hours
and minutes parked at a location and is calibrated to assess the rates
established in Section 88.00.1.



 



   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, allow, permit or
suffer any vehicle to remain in any commercial loading zone, time limit zone
or no parking zone after his/her personal parking meter has expired and in no
event beyond the posted time limit in a time limit zone.



 



   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person to alter or manipulate in
any way a personal parking meter, approved for use in the City of Los
Angeles, for the purposes of reducing the actual charged time or extending
the parking time beyond the four-hour maximum limit for the space occupied.



 



 



 



“B.  PARKING ON PUBLICLY OWNED OFF-STREET PARKING FACILITIES”



 



 



SEC. 88.50.  PUBLIC OFF-STREET PARKING FACILITIES AND REGULATORY SIGNS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 169,246, Eff. 1/15/94.)



 



   A.   Public Off-Street Parking Facilities:  (Amended by Ord. No.
182,843, Eff. 2/10/14.)



 



Lot



No.    Address         Vicinity



601   14401 Friar St.      Van Nuys
602   11320 Chandler Blvd.      North Hollywood
609   14521 Friar St.      Van Nuys
610   14530 Gilmore St.      Van Nuys
613   2010 Pisani Pl.      Venice
614   728 S. Cochran Ave.      Wilshire Miracle Mile
616   1411 Electric Ave.      Venice
617   1511 Electric Ave.      Venice
618   7134 Remmet Ave.      Canoga Park
619   1451 Gardner St.      Sunset-Gardner
620   14607 Sylvan St.      Van Nuys
621   7120 Baird Ave.      Reseda
622   7131 Canby Ave.      Reseda
623   8707 S. Menlo Ave.      Vermont-Manchester
624   7222 Baird Ave.      Reseda
625   3416 W. 43rd St.      Leimert Park
626   3328 W. 43rd St.      Leimert Park
627   11231 Magnolia Blvd.   North Hollywood
628   2418 Daly St.         Lincoln Heights
629   14591 Dickens St.      Sherman Oaks
630   14517 Erwin St.      Van Nuys
631   14402 Gilmore St.      Van Nuys
632   5345 11th Ave.      Crenshaw-Slauson
633   5407 11th Ave.      Crenshaw-Slauson
634   5701 11th Ave.      Crenshaw-Slauson
635   119 N. Ave. 56      Highland Park
636   5712 E. Marmion Way   Highland Park
637   124 N. Ave. 59      Highland Park
638   120 S. Ave. 58         Highland Park
639   116 S. Ave. 56         Highland Park
640   7130 Darby Ave.      Reseda
641   462 W. 9th St.         San Pedro
642   1421 S. Wooster St.      Pico-Robertson
643   1147 Echo Park Ave.      Sunset-Echo Park
644   7219 Remmet Ave.      Canoga Park
645   1540 Purdue Ave.      West Los Angeles
646   3528 Larga Ave.      Glendale-Atwater
647   474 W. 8th St.         San Pedro
649   1533 N. Schrader Blvd.   Sunset-Vine
650   928 Marine Ave.      Wilmington
651   1516 Barry Ave.      West Los Angeles
652   1530 Butler Ave.      West Los Angeles
653   1547 Corinth Ave.      West Los Angeles
654   1611 Beloit Ave.      West Los Angeles
655   11312 Idaho Ave.      West Los Angeles
656   1615 Colby Ave.      West Los Angeles
657   221 Ave. 22         Lincoln Heights
658   216 Ave. 24         Lincoln Heights
659   2334 Daly St.         Lincoln Heights
660   154 Ave. 24         Lincoln Heights
661   2416 Workman St.      Lincoln Heights
662   1152 Lemoyne St.      Sunset-Echo Park
663   1146 Logan St.      Sunset-Echo Park
664   4883 Navarro St.      El Sereno
665   323 W. 87th St.      Broadway-Manchester
668   5058 Meridian St.      York Blvd.-Ave. 51
669   5033 Lincoln Ave.      York Blvd.-Ave. 51
670   1710 Cherokee      Hollywood-Vine
671   672 S. Detroit St.      Mid-Wilshire
672   124 S. Ave. 57         Highland Park
673   117 S. Ave. 58         Highland Park
674   7220 Jordan Ave.      Canoga Park
675   4642 Russell Ave.      Los Feliz-Vermont
676   1146 Glendale Blvd.      Sunset-Echo Park
677   308 S. Hill St.         Civic Center
678   8509 S. Broadway      Manchester-Broadway
679   1711 Sunset Blvd.      Echo Park
680   1036  Broxton Ave.      Westwood Village
681   15216 Sunset Blvd.      Pacific Palisades
682   318 N. Breed St.      Brooklyn-Soto
683   445 5th St.         San Pedro
684   460 W. 7th St.         San Pedro
685   2386 Malcolm Ave.      Rancho Park
686   5063 Caspar Ave.      Eagle Rock
687   7141 Remmet Ave.      Canoga Park
688   1156 Clark Drive      Pico-Robertson
689   8866 Pico Boulevard      Pico-Robertson
690   12223 Ventura Blvd.      tudio City
691   682 S. Vermont Ave.      Vermont-Wilshire
692   601 S. Vermont Ave.      Vermont-Wilshire
694   209 N. Larchmont Blvd.   Larchmont
695   123 N. Avenue 57      Highland Park
696   835 Avalon Blvd.      Wilmington
697   2332 Workman Street      Lincoln Heights
698   2367 Prosser Ave.      Pico-Westwood
699   529 11th St.         San Pedro
700   239 W. 86th Place      Broadway-Manchester
701   2150 Dell Ave.      Venice
702   1625 N. Vine Street      Hollywood-Vine
703   123 S. Robertson Blvd.   Beverly Center
704   7128 Jordan Ave.      Canoga Park
705   21901 W. Costanso St.   Woodland Hills
707   2377 Midvale Ave.      Pico-Midvale
711   3528 Garden Ave.      Glendale-Atwater
712   7246 Baird Ave.      Reseda
713   249 N. Chicago St.      Boyle Heights
715   2371 Overland Ave.      Pico-Westwood
725   7117 Remmet Ave.      Canoga Park
731   200 N. Venice Blvd.      Venice
732   218 N. Larchmont Blvd.   Larchmont
735   396 W. 6th St.         San Pedro
740   301 N. Main St.      Venice
742   1637 Wilcox Ave.      Hudson-Wilcox
744   8463 S. Vermont Ave.   Vermont-Manchester
745   6801 Hollywood Blvd.   Hollywood
746   115 S. Ave. 56         Highland Park
747   5000 N. Vineland Ave.   North Hollywood
748   11010 Santa Monica Blvd.   West Los Angeles
749   4702 W. Washington Blvd.   Mid-City
750   4600 W. Washington Blvd.   Mid-City
751   4601 W. Washington Blvd.   Mid-City
752   6265 Sylmar Ave.      Van Nuys
753   414 E. Temple St.      Civic Center
755   237 S. Los Angeles St.   Civic Center
757   900 North Broadway      Chinatown
758   636 Maple Ave.      Fashion District
759   1300 Electric Ave.      Venice
760   1600 Erving Tabor Ct.   Venice
761   1608 S. Pacific Ave.      Venice
762   15314 W. Dickens St.      Sherman Oaks
763   101 N. Judge John Aiso St.   Little Tokyo
764   4318 Degnan Blvd.      Leimert Park
766   528 W. 7th St.         San Pedro
799   14758 Ventura Blvd.      Sherman Oaks
801   1221 N. Figueroa Pl.      Harbor City
802   25820 S. Vermont Ave.   Harbor City



 



   B.   Installation of Regulatory Signs.



 



   (a)   The Department of Transportation may install regulatory signs
in or upon the above listed off-street parking facilities. (Amended by Ord.
No. 151,833, Eff. 2/10/79, Oper. 2/25/79.)



 



   (b)   Such signs shall be of such design and type, and shall be in
such numbers and places in or upon such facilities as said Department finds
are required to fully inform the public of the contents thereof and the
conditions and limitations on the parking of vehicles therein.



 



 



SEC. 88.51.  INSTALLATION OF OFF-STREET PARKING METERS AUTHORIZED.



 



   The Department of Transportation is hereby authorized and directed to
install or cause to be installed, off-street parking meters on publicly owned
off-street parking facilities hereby established or hereafter created by the
Council of the City of Los Angeles, in such numbers as may be designated by
said Council and on such publicly owned off-street parking facilities as may
be determined by said Council to be necessary to the regulation, control and
inspection of the parking of vehicles therein. Said determination shall be
based upon good traffic engineering principles, traffic investigation and
surveys made from time to time by the Department of Transportation. (Amended
by Ord. No. 151,833, Eff. 2/10/79, Oper. 2/25/79.)



 



   (a)   Off-street meters installed on off-street parking facilities
shall be placed in the area adjacent to or in the vicinity of the off-street
parking meter spaces hereinafter described.  (Amended by Ord. No. 180,092,
Eff. 9/7/08.)



 



   (b)   No other traffic officer, board or department of the City, and
no private agency or person, shall install or place any off-street parking
meter within the purview of this article except upon the order of the
Department of Transportation.  (Amended by Ord. No. 151,833, Eff. 2/10/79,
Oper. 2/25/79.)



 



 



SEC. 88.52.  MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR OF OFF-STREET PARKING METERS.



 



   The Department is hereby authorized and directed to repair, maintain,
replace and otherwise keep said off-street parking meters in good working
order and condition at all times, or cause the same to be done. (Amended by
Ord. No. 159,561, Eff. 1/17/85.)



 



   (a)   No other officer, board or department of this City, and no
private agency or person, shall repair, maintain or replace any off-street
parking meter within the purview of this article, except upon the order of
the Department. (Amended by Ord. No. 159,561, Eff. 1/17/85.)



 



   (b)   (None)



 



   (c)   All persons engaged in repairing, maintaining, replacing or
otherwise working upon off-street parking meters shall bear identification
showing that such persons are authorized to do such repair, maintenance or
replacement work.



 



 



SEC. 88.53.  OFF-STREET PARKING METER SPACES TO BE INDICATED AND MAINTAINED.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 180,092, Eff. 9/7/08.)



 



   The Department shall cause distinct lines or markings to be painted or
placed, replaced and maintained upon the publicly owned parking facility
adjacent to or in the vicinity of each off-street parking meter for the
purpose of designating the off-street parking space or spaces for which said
meter is to be used.



 



   It shall be unlawful when such lines or markings are in place, for any
person to park, stop or stand any vehicle other than completely within the
confines or limits of such off-street parking meter space.



 



 



SEC. 88.54.  TIME OF PARKING IN OFF-STREET PARKING METER ZONES.



 



   The maximum legal parking time for each publicly owned off-street
parking facility in Section 88.50 hereof shall be as determined from time to
time by the Board of Transportation Commissioners. Said determination shall
be based upon good traffic engineering principles, traffic investigation and
surveys made from time to time.  (Amended by Ord. No. 151,833, Eff. 2/10/79,
Oper. 2/25/79.)



 



 



SEC. 88.55.  OFF-STREET PARKING METERS – TIMES FOR OPERATION.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 180,092, Eff. 9/7/08.)



 



   Provisions of this division which require payment of off-street parking
meters shall apply at such times and hours as may be determined from time to
time by the Board of Transportation Commissioners, based upon engineering and
traffic investigation.  Such times and hours shall be indicated by signs or
on the parking meters; provided, however, that the Board of Transportation
Commissioners may, in its discretion from time to time, prohibit all parking
in any publicly owned off-street parking facility during times of emergency
by causing appropriate "No Parking" signs to be posted.



 



 



SEC. 88.56.  OPERATION OF OFF-STREET PARKING METERS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 180,092, Eff. 9/7/08.)



 



   Every off-street parking meter shall be set to display, upon payment
for an off-street parking meter space, the period of time for which said
payment has been made, and unless a printed receipt indicating the expiry
time is made available at the time of payment, said off-street parking meter
shall continue to display, upon the entry of the off-street parking meter
space number, if applicable, the remaining paid time for said off-street
parking meter space from the time of payment until the expiration of the paid
time, or until a vehicle vacates said off-street parking meter space,
whichever is sooner



 



   Every off-street parking meter shall be so arranged that upon the
expiration of the parking time for which said payment has been made, and upon
the entry of the off-street parking meter space number, if applicable, it
will indicate by a visible display that the lawful parking time has expired.



 



   Each off-street parking meter shall indicate the legal parking time
which has been or may be established for that publicly owned off-street
parking facility.



 



 



SEC. 88.57.  OFF-STREET PARKING METERS – PAYMENT.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 181,852, Eff. 10/3/11, Oper. 1/1/12.)



 



   When the operator of a vehicle parks in an off-street parking meter
space on a publicly owned off-street parking facility, the operator shall
immediately make or cause to be made a lawful payment for the off-street
parking meter adjacent thereto, or, if none, for an applicable parking meter
in the vicinity after entering the assigned off-street parking meter space
number, at the rates determined by the Board of Transportation Commissioners
from time to time for said off-street parking meter space and as indicated by
posted signs or on an applicable parking meter.



 



 



SEC. 88.58.  COLLECTION OF CASH FROM OFF-STREET PARKING METERS.



   (Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 180,092, Eff. 9/7/08.)



 



   The Department shall make or cause to be made regular collections of
the money deposited in off-street parking meters by uniformed collectors and
shall count or cause to be counted the money contained therein and deliver
the same into the City Treasury to the credit of the Special Parking Revenue
Fund.



 



 



SEC. 88.60.  OFF-STREET PARKING METERS AND OFF-STREET PARKING METER
STANDARDS NOT TO BE USED FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES.



 



   It shall be unlawful for any person to attach anything to or to allow
anything to lean against an off-street parking meter or an off-street parking
meter standard.



 



 



SEC. 88.61.  IMPROPER USE OR MISUSE OF OFF-STREET PARKING METERS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 180,092, Eff. 9/7/08.)



 



   It shall be unlawful to deposit or cause to be deposited in any
off-street parking meter any defaced or bent coin, or any slug, device,
metallic or other substitute for any money of the United States of America,
or for any person to deface, injure, tamper with, open or willfully break,
destroy or impair the usefulness of any off-street parking meter, or to place
any foreign matter or substance in said off-street parking meter or any part
thereof.



 



 



SEC. 88.62.  EXTENDING PARKING TIME FOR AN OFF-STREET PARKING METER SPACE.



   (Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 180,092, Eff. 9/7/08.)



 



   It shall be unlawful for any person to make or cause to be made a
payment in an off-street parking meter for the purpose of increasing or
extending the parking time of any vehicle beyond the legal parking time which
has been established by the Board of Transportation Commissioners for the
off-street parking meter space.



 



 



SEC. 88.63.  FAILURE TO PAY FOR AN OFF-STREET PARKING METER SPACE.



   (Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 180,092, Eff. 9/7/08.)



 



   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park, or to cause,
allow, permit or suffer to be parked, a vehicle in any off-street parking
meter space without immediately making or causing to be made a lawful payment
at an applicable parking meter as provided in Section 88.57.



 



   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, allow, permit or
suffer any vehicle to remain in any off-street parking meter space for more
than the time indicated by posted signs or indicated on an applicable
off-street parking meter indicating the maximum parking time allowed in such
off-street parking meter space, or during any time the applicable off-street
parking meter is indicating that the time has elapsed for which lawful
payment has been made for said off-street parking meter space; provided,
however, that the provisions of this Section shall not apply to any vehicle
described in Section 80.05.



 



 



SEC. 88.64.  FAILURE TO OBEY OFF-STREET PARKING SIGNS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 143,158. Eff. 5/4/72.)



 



   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park, or cause, allow,
permit or suffer to be parked, a vehicle in any publicly owned off-street
parking facility in violation of signs erected pursuant to Section 88.50B.



 



   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, allow, permit or
suffer any vehicle to remain in or upon any publicly owned off-street parking
facility for more than the time indicated by the signs erected pursuant to
Section 88.50B.



 



   (c)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any vehicle
described in Section 80.05.



 



 



SEC. 88.65.  DESIGNATION OF PARKING SPACES FOR THE EXCLUSIVE USE OF
PHYSICALLY HANDICAPPED PERSONS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 148,681, Eff. 9/10/76.)



 



   (a)   The Department of Transportation is hereby authorized to
designate stalls or spaces in publicly owned, leased or controlled off street
parking facilities for the exclusive use of those physically handicapped
persons whose vehicles display the distinguishing license plates or placards
issued to disabled persons pursuant to Section 22511.5 of the Vehicle Code,
or to disabled veterans as specified in Section 9105 of the Vehicle Code.
Such designation shall be made whenever the Department of Transportation
determines that access to property would be improved for physically
handicapped persons and shall be accomplished by posting immediately adjacent
to and visible from each stall or space a sign consisting of a profile view
of a wheelchair with occupant in white on a blue background. (Amended by Ord.
No. 151,833, Eff. 2/10/79, Oper. 2/25/79.)



 



   (b)   (Amended by Ord. No. 151,833, Eff. 2/10/79, Oper. 2/25/79.) 
There shall also be posted immediately adjacent to and visible from such
stall or space a sign which clearly and conspicuously states the following:



 




   “Unauthorized vehicles not displaying distinguishing license plates
or placards issued to physically handicapped persons or disabled veterans
will be towed away at owner’s expense.  Towed vehicles may be reclaimed at
------ or by telephoning ------.”




 



   When such a sign is posted, the Department of Transportation shall
cause the blank spaces to be completed and maintained to set forth the
following:



 



   1.   The complete address of the place where the vehicle may be
reclaimed.



 



   2.   The applicable telephone number of the local law enforcement
agency.



 



 



SEC. 88.66.  REGULATION OF ELECTRIC CHARGING STATION SPACES ON CITY STREETS
AND PUBLICLY OWNED PARKING FACILITIES.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,744, Eff. 10/15/18.)



 



   (a)   The City Council, by resolution, may designate stalls or
spaces on a public street or in a publicly owned parking facility in the City
of Los Angeles for the exclusive use of charging and parking a vehicle that
is connected for electric charging.  Electric charging stations installed
pursuant to this section shall be exempt from the provisions of Section 62.08
(Specifications and Procedures for Above Ground Facilities Installations in
the Public Rights-of-Way) of this Code.  Electric charging stations
installed on streets and publicly owned parking facilities prior to the
adoption of this section shall also be subject to the following provisions:



 



   (1)   It shall be unlawful for a person to park or leave standing a
vehicle in a stall or space designated for electric charging on a public
street or publicly owned parking facility unless the vehicle is connected for
electric charging.



 



   (2)   It shall be unlawful for a person to obstruct, block, or
otherwise bar access to a parking stall or space designated for electric
charging unless the person's vehicle is parked or left standing in the stall
or space while the vehicle is connected for electric charging.



 



   (3)   Towing.  Subject to the notice, posting, and impound
requirements set forth in California Vehicle Code Section 22511, any peace
officer or any regularly employed and salaried employee of the City who is
authorized to engage and is engaged in directing traffic or enforcing parking
laws and regulations may remove, or cause to be removed, a vehicle in
violation of this section.  The vehicle shall be removed to the nearest
Official Police Garage, as defined in LAMC Section 80.77.4, from the location
where the violation occurred.  Section 22852 of the California Vehicle Code
applies to this section with respect to the removal of any vehicle in
violation of this section.  Section 22852 is incorporated by reference as if
set forth in full herein and provides, in summary, that whenever an
authorized employee of the City directs the storage of a vehicle, the City
shall direct the storage operator to provide the vehicle's registered and
legal owner(s) of record, or their agent(s), with the opportunity for a
post-storage hearing to determine the validity of the storage.  Notice of
the storage shall be mailed or personally delivered to the registered and
legal owner(s) within 48 hours, excluding weekends, as specifically provided
for under Section 22852 of the California Vehicle Code.  To receive a
post-storage hearing, the owner(s) of record, or their agent(s), must request
a hearing in person, in writing or by telephone within ten days of the date
appearing on the notice.  The City may authorize its own officer or employee
to conduct the hearing as long as the hearing officer is not the same person
who directed the storage of the vehicle.



 



   (b)   Violation – Penalties.  A violation of this section is
subject to the civil penalties listed in Section 89.60 of this Code.  The
City Council may establish from time to time by resolution an increase in the
amount of the fine.



 



   (c)   Severability.  If any subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase
of this section is for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by a
court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity
of the remaining portions of this ordinance.  The City Council hereby
declares that it would have adopted this section, and each and every
subsection, sentence, clause and phrase thereof not declared invalid or
unconstitutional, without regard to whether any portion of the ordinance
would be subsequently declared invalid or unconstitutional.



 



 



 



DIVISION “V”
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS WITHIN THE LOS ANGELES INTERNATIONAL AND VAN NUYS AIRPORTS



 




(Div. V, Sec 89.00 - 89.38, Added by Ord. No. 95,927, Eff. 2/12/50. Div. V
Sec. 89.00 - 89.38,





Amended, Sec. 89.39 - 89.48 and 89.39.1, Added by Ord. No. 127,959, Eff.
3/28/64.)




 



 



Section



89.00   Definitions.



89.01   Powers of Manager.



89.02   Basic Speed Law.



89.03   Maximum Speed Law.



89.04   Entrance and Exits.



89.05   Stopping at Stop Signs.



89.06   Use of Service Roadways.



89.07   Driving in Parking Areas.



89.08   U-turns.



89.09   Driving Over Double Line.



89.10   Reckless Driving.



89.11   Driving Under the Influence of Intoxicating Liquor or Any Drug.



89.12   Driving Under Influence of Non-narcotic Drug.



89.13   Driver’s License.



89.14   Removal of Debris From Accident.



89.15   Authorized Emergency Vehicles.



89.16   Citations and Arrests.



89.17   Presumption of Validity of Signs, Devices, Signals and Markings.



89.18   Manner of Direction of Traffic.



89.19   Obedience to Officers.



89.20   Application to Public Employees.



89.21   Right of Roadway.



89.22   Turning in Intersection.



89.23   One-way Traffic.



89.24   Laned Roadway.



89.25   Starting Parked Vehicles or Backing.



89.26   Turning Movements and Required Signals.



89.27   Duration of Signal.



89.28   Signal When Stopping.



89.29   Method of Signal.



89.30   Hand Signals.



89.31   Opening and Closing Doors.



89.32   Right of Way at Crosswalks.



89.33   Vehicle Stopped for Pedestrians.



89.34   Driving in Parking Area.



89.35   Powers of Manager re Parking.



89.35.1   Parking Meter Spaces to Be Indicated and Maintained.



89.35.2   Parking Meter Rates.



89.35.3   Operations of Parking Meters.



89.35.4   Parking Meters – Payment.



89.35.5   Failure to Pay for a Parking Meter Space.



89.35.6   Improper Use or Misuse of Parking Meters.



89.36   Stopping at Red Curb.



89.37   Parking at Green Curb.



89.38   Parking at Yellow Curb.



89.39   Parking at White Curb.



89.39.1   Parking Prohibited or Limited.



89.39.2   Parking Restricted to Hotel – Motel Operated Vehicles.



89.40   Parking in Parking Area.



89.41   Impounding of Vehicles.



89.42   Curb Parking.



89.43   Parking in Crosswalk.



89.44   Emergency Suspension of Parking.



89.45   Parking of for Hire Vehicles.



89.46   Parking Restricted to for Hire Vehicles.



89.47   Pedestrians Use Sidewalks.



89.48   Pedestrians Outside Crosswalks.



89.49   Official Traffic Signals.



89.50   Walk, Wait, or Don’t Walk.



 



 



SEC. 89.00.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   The following words and phrases whenever used in this division shall be
construed as defined in this section unless from the context a different
meaning is intended, or unless a different meaning is specifically defined
and more particularly directed to the use of such words or phrases:



 



   “Airport” shall mean the Los Angeles International Airport and the
Van Nuys Airport.



 



   “Board” shall mean the Board of Airport Commissioners of the City
of Los Angeles.



 



   “Bus” shall mean any motor vehicle other than a motor truck or
truck tractor, designed for carrying more than nine persons including the
driver and used or maintained for the transportation of passengers.



 



   “Crosswalk” shall mean:



 



   (a)   that portion of a roadway included within the prolongation or
connection of the boundary lines of sidewalks at intersections where the
intersecting roadways meet at approximately right angles, except the
prolongation of such lines from an alley across a street, and except where
signs have been placed indicating no crossing and;



 



   (b)   any portion of a roadway distinctly indicated for pedestrian
crossing by lines or other markings on the surface thereof.



 



   “For Hire Vehicle” shall mean a vehicle used for the transportation
of persons and baggage for hire, other than a bus.



 



   “Guard” shall mean any person employed by the Department of
Airports having a civil service classification of “Guard”.



 



   “Manager” shall mean the General Manager of the Department of
Airports of the City of Los Angeles.



 



   “Motor Vehicle” shall means a vehicle which is self-propelled.



 



   “Official traffic control devices” shall mean all signs, signals,
marking and devices not inconsistent with this division, placed or created by
authority of the Manager.



 



   “Official traffic signals” shall mean any device, whether manually,
electrically, or mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately
directed to stop and to proceed, and which is erected by authority of the
Manager.



 



   “Person” shall mean a natural person, joint venture, joint stock
company, partnership, association, club, company, corporation, business trust
organization or the manager, lessee, agent, servant, officer or employee of
any of them.



 



   “Private parking area” shall mean any portion of an Airport other
than a “public parking area” which is set aside for the parking of
vehicles.



 



   “Private roadway” shall mean a roadway not open to the public.



 



   “Public parking area” shall mean any portion of an Airport which is
set aside for the parking of private vehicles for compensation.



 



   “Public roadway” shall mean a roadway open to the public.



 



   “Roadway” shall mean those ways within an Airport set aside for the
movement of vehicular traffic.



 



   “Security Officer” shall mean any person employed by the Department
of Airports having a civil service classification of “Security
Officer.”  (Added by Ord. No. 163,941, Eff. 9/1/88.)



 



   “Service roadway” shall mean a roadway set aside for the use of
vehicles furnishing supplies and the like for the use of the Department of
Airports or any lessee occupying any portion of an Airport.



 



   “Sidewalk” shall mean that portion of a roadway set apart for
pedestrian movement.



 



   “Special Officers” shall mean any person employed by the Department
of Airports having a civil service classification of “Special Officer.”



 



   “Vehicle” shall mean a device in, upon or by which any person or
property is or may be propelled, moved or drawn upon a highway or roadway
excepting a device moved by human power.



 



   Whenever any words or phrases used in this division are not defined
herein but are now defined in the Vehicle Code of this State, such
definitions are incorporated herein and shall be deemed to apply to such
words  and phrases used in this division as though set forth herein in full.



 



 



SEC. 89.01.  POWERS OF MANAGER.



 



   The Manager may, when he shall determine that public safety or
convenience requires the same, or that the movement of traffic will be
expedited thereby, designate:



 



   (a)   Roadways as entrances to or exits from an Airport;



 



   (b)   Points where vehicles must come to a stop before proceeding;



 



   (c)   Places for crosswalks;



 



   (d)   Roadways as service roadways, public roadways or private
roadways;



 



   (e)   Places where  roadways shall be divided into lanes;



 



   (f)   The direction and manner in  which vehicles shall proceed;
and may erect signs, make markings and erect or place official traffic
control devices and official traffic signals giving notice thereof, which
sighs, markings, devices, and signals shall conform to the provisions of the
Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices.



 



 



SEC. 89.02.  BASIC SPEED LAW.



 



   No person shall drive a vehicle upon an Airport at a speed greater than
is reasonable or prudent, having due regard for weather, visibility, the
traffic on and the surface and width of the highway and in no event at a
speed which endangers the safety of persons and property.



 



 



SEC. 89.03.  MAXIMUM SPEED LAW.



 



   No person shall drive a vehicle upon an Airport at a speed greater than
the posted limit.



 



 



SEC. 89.04.  ENTRANCE AND EXITS.



 



   Persons entering an Airport by vehicle shall enter by means of those
roadways which are designed as entrances to the Airport and shall leave by
way of those roadways which are designated as exits, except as to those
roadways which are used as both entrances and exits.



 



 



SEC. 89.05.  STOPPING AT STOP SIGNS.



 



   The driver of any vehicle approaching any intersection sign posted with
a stop sign shall stop at a limit line, if marked otherwise before entering
the cross.walk on the near side of the intersection or, if none, then before
entering the intersection.



 



 



SEC. 89.06.  USE OF SERVICE ROADWAYS.



 



   No person shall use any service roadway for any purpose other than that
for which it is designated, as provided in this division.



 



 



SEC. 89.07.  DRIVING IN PARKING AREAS.



 



   All drivers of vehicles entering upon any public parking area shall
follow and comply with any directional markers or signs therein.



 



 



SEC. 89.08.  U-TURNS.



 



   When appropriate signs are erected, no person shall turn any vehicle on
any public roadway so as to proceed in the opposite direction.



 



 



SEC. 89.09.  DRIVING OVER DOUBLE LINE.



 



   When any roadway is divided into lines by a painted double parallel
solid line no person driving a vehicle shall drive to the left thereof except
when turning to the left across any such marking at any intersection or into,
or out of, a driveway.



 



 



SEC. 89.10.  RECKLESS DRIVING.



 



   No person shall drive any vehicle upon any driveway or in any parking
area in willful or wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property.



 



 



SEC. 89.11.  DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR OR ANY DRUG.



 



   No person who is under the influence of intoxicating liquor or under
the combined influence of intoxicating liquor or any drug shall drive a
vehicle upon any roadway or in any parking area.



 



 



SEC. 89.12.  DRIVING UNDER INFLUENCE OF NON-NARCOTIC DRUG.



 



   No person under the influence of any drug, other than a narcotic or
amphetamine or any derivative thereof, to a degree which renders him
incapable of safely driving a vehicle shall drive a vehicle upon any roadway
or in any parking area.



 



 



SEC. 89.13.  DRIVER’S LICENSE.



 



   No person shall drive a motor vehicle upon any roadway or in any
parking area unless he then holds a valid driver’s licence issued under the
provisions of the Vehicle Code of the State of California, except such
persons as are expressly exempted by said Code.



 



 



SEC. 89.14.  REMOVAL OF DEBRIS FROM ACCIDENT.



 



   The driver of any vehicle which is involved in any collision shall
remove or cause to be removed all glass and other debris which may have
fallen upon any roadway as a result of such collision from such roadway
before leaving the place of the collision and every person hired or employed
to move or remove any such vehicle shall remove all glass and other debris
which may have fallen upon the roadway as a result of the collision in which
the vehicle was involved, before removing the vehicle.



 



 



SEC. 89.15.  AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.



 



   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle, as
defined in the Vehicle Code of the State of California, sounding a siren and
having at least one lighted lamp exhibiting red light visible under normal
atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of such
vehicle, the driver of every other vehicle on any roadway shall yield the
right of way and shall immediately drive to a position parallel to and as
close as possible to the right hand edge or curb of the roadway clear of any
intersection and shall thereupon stop and remain in such position until such
authorized emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a
police officer, special officer or guard.



 



 



SEC. 89.16.  CITATIONS AND ARRESTS.



 



   (a)   Any Parking Control Checker or Traffic Officer as defined in
Section 80.00 of this chapter or any Special Officer or Security Officer as
defined in Section 89.00 of this chapter is hereby authorized to issue
parking notices as provided by Division 17, Article 3 of the Vehicle Code
whenever and wherever necessary on any airport department street, roadway,
thoroughfare or area under the jurisdiction and control of the Board of
Airport Commissioners of the City of Los Angeles and to perform such other
related duties as may be required by the Chief of Police or the General
Manager, Department of Transportation, as appropriate.  (Amended by Ord. No.
168,783, Eff. 7/12/93, Oper. 7/1/93.)



 



   (b)   Any police officer is authorized and empowered to issue
citations to any person violating any of the provisions of this division on
the same forms used for violation of traffic laws or ordinances by the Police
Department of the City and in accordance with the provisions of Sections
40500, 40501 and 40502 of the Vehicle Code, or to place such person under
arrest in cases where arrest is authorized for similar offenses under the
provisions of said Vehicle Code.



 



 



SEC. 89.17.  PRESUMPTION OF VALIDITY OF SIGNS, DEVICES, SIGNALS AND MARKINGS.



 



   Whenever traffic signs or traffic control devices, signals or markings
are placed in position such signs, devices, signals and markings shall be
presumed to have been so placed by authority of the Manager unless the
contrary shall be established by competent evidence.



 



 



SEC. 89.18.  MANNER OF DIRECTION OF TRAFFIC.



 



   Police officers, guards and special officers are authorized to direct
all traffic by voice, hand or signal in conformance with traffic laws
provided that, in the event of a fire or other emergency, they may direct
traffic as conditions may require notwithstanding the provisions of this
division.



 



 



SEC. 89.19.  OBEDIENCE TO OFFICERS.



 



   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful
order, direction or signal of a police officer, guard or special officer.



 



 



SEC. 89.20.  APPLICATION TO PUBLIC EMPLOYEES.



 



   The provisions of this division shall apply to the driver of any
vehicle owned by or used in the service of the United States Government, this
state, or any county or city.



 



 



SEC. 89.21.  RIGHT OF ROADWAY.



 



   Upon all roadways a vehicle shall be driven upon the right half of the
roadway, except as follows:



 



   (a)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction under the rules covering such movement.



 



   (b)   When placing a vehicle in a lawful position for, and when the
vehicle is lawfully making a left turn.



 



   (c)   When the right half of the roadway is closed to traffic.



 



   (d)   Upon a roadway designated. and sign posted for one-way traffic.



 



   (e)   When the roadway is not of sufficient width.



 



 



SEC. 89.22.  TURNING IN INTERSECTION.



 



   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do
so as follows:



 



   (a)   Right turns.  Both the approach for a right turn and a right
turn shall be made as close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of
the roadway.



 



   (b)   Left turns.  The driver of a vehicle intending to turn left
at any intersection shall approach the intersection in the extreme left lane
lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction of the driver of such
vehicle and after entering the intersection the left turn shall be made so as
to leave the intersection in a lane lawfully available to traffic moving in
such direction upon the roadway being entered.



 



 



SEC. 89.23.  ONE-WAY TRAFFIC.



 



   No person shall operate or move a vehicle upon any roadway designated
and sign posted for one-way traffic in a direction opposite to that indicated
by the designation or sign post.



 



 



SEC. 89.24.  LANED ROADWAY.



 



   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for traffic, a vehicle shall be driven as near as practicable entirely
within a single lane and shall not be moved from the lane until the driver
has first ascertained that such movement can be made with reasonable safety.



 



 



SEC. 89.25.  STARTING PARKED VEHICLES OR BACKING.



 



   No person shall start a vehicle stopped, standing or parked on a
roadway, nor shall any person back a vehicle on a roadway until such movement
can be made with reasonable safety.



 



 



SEC. 89.26.  TURNING MOVEMENTS AND REQUIRED SIGNALS.



 



   No person shall turn a vehicle from a direct crossing or move right or
left upon a roadway until such movement can be made with reasonable safety
and then only after the giving of an appropriate signal in a manner provided
in this division in the event any other vehicle may be affected by the
movement.



 



 



SEC. 89.27.  DURATION OF SIGNAL.



 



   Any signal of intended turn right or left shall be given continuously
during the last 100 feet traveled by the vehicle before turning.



 



 



SEC. 89.28.  SIGNAL WHEN STOPPING.



 



   No person  shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle on a
roadway without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided in
this division to the driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there
is an opportunity to give the signal.



 



 



SEC. 89.29.  METHOD OF SIGNAL.



 



   The signals required by this division shall be given either by means of
the hand and arm or by a signal lamp or mechanical signal device, but when 
the body or load on any vehicle or combination of vehicles projects 24 inches
or more to the left of the center of the steering wheel, or under any
condition when a hand and arm signal would not be visible both to the front
and rear of the vehicle or vehicles, then the vehicle or vehicles shall be
equipped with, and signals shall be give by, a signal lamp or device.



 



 



SEC. 89.30.  HAND SIGNALS.



 



   All required signals given by hand and arm shall be given from the left
side of a vehicle in the following manner:



 



   (a)   Left turn – hand and arm extended horizontally beyond the
side of the vehicle.



 



   (b)   Right turn – hand and arm extended upward beyond the side of
the vehicle.



 



   (c)   Stop or sudden decrease of speed signal – hand and arm
extended downward beyond the side of the vehicle.



 



 



SEC. 89.31.  OPENING AND CLOSING DOORS.



 



   No person shall open the door of a vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless it is reasonably safe to do so and can be done without
interfering with the movement of such traffic, nor shall any person leave the
door open on the side of the vehicle available to moving traffic for a period
of time longer than necessary to load or unload passengers.



 



 



SEC. 89.32.  RIGHT OF WAY AT CROSSWALKS.



 



   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right of way to a pedestrian
crossing the roadway within any marked crosswalk or within any unmarked
crosswalk or any intersection.



 



 



SEC. 89.33.  VEHICLE STOPPED FOR PEDESTRIANS.



 



   When any vehicle has stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any unmarked
crosswalk at the intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the roadway the
driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not overtake and
pass the stopped vehicle.



 



 



SEC. 89.34.  DRIVING IN PARKING AREA.



 



   (a)   No person shall enter any public parking area except at the
places marked “entrance” nor leave such area except at the places marked
“exit.”



 



   (b)   All persons entering and driving, a vehicle into, out of or
within a public parking area shall follow the instructions of any parking
area attendant  therein.



 



 



SEC. 89.35.  POWERS OF MANAGER RE PARKING.



 



   The Manager may, when he shall determine that the movement of traffic
will be expedited thereby, designate:



 



   (a)   Places where vehicles may or may not be parked.



 



   (b)   The period of time for which vehicles may be parked at any
place; and may make appropriate markings giving notice thereof, which
markings shall conform to the provisions of the Manual of Uniform Traffic
Control Devices.



 



   (c)   The location and number of parking meters.  (Added by Ord.
No. 151,110, Eff. 7/30/78.)



 



 



SEC. 89.35.1.  PARKING METER SPACES TO BE INDICATED AND MAINTAINED.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 180,092, Eff. 9/7/08.)



 



   The Manager shall cause distinct lines or markings to be painted or
placed, replaced and maintained adjacent to each parking meter for the
purposes of designating the parking meter space or spaces for which said
meter is to be used.



 



   It shall be unlawful when such lines or markings are in place for any
person to park, stop or stand any vehicle other than completely within the
confines or limits of such parking meter space.



 



 



SEC. 89.35.2.  PARKING METER RATES.



   (Added by Ord. No. 151,110, Eff. 7/30/78.)



 



   The hourly rates and payment schedule for each parking meter space
shall be determined from time to time by the Board.



 



 



SEC. 89.35.3.  OPERATIONS OF PARKING METERS.



   (Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 180,092, Eff. 9/7/08.)



 



   Every parking meter shall be set to display, upon payment for a parking
meter space, the period of time for which said payment has been made, and
said parking meter shall continue to display, upon the entry of the parking
meter space number, if applicable, the remaining paid time for said parking
meter space from the time of payment until the expiration of the paid time or
until a vehicle vacates said parking meter space, whichever is sooner.



 



   Every parking meter shall be so arranged that upon the expiration of
the parking time for which said payment has been made, and upon the entry of
the parking meter space number, if applicable, it will indicate by a visible
display that the lawful parking time has expired.



 



   Every parking meter shall indicate the legal parking time which has
been or may be established for that area, location or zone of the street upon
which said parking meter is installed.



 



 



SEC. 89.35.4.  PARKING METERS – PAYMENT.



   (Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 180,092, Eff. 9/7/08.)



 



   When the operator of a vehicle parks such vehicle in a parking meter
space, the operator shall immediately make or cause to be made a lawful
payment in the parking meter adjacent thereto, or if none, in an applicable
parking meter in the vicinity after entering the assigned parking meter space
number, at the rates established by the Board and in accordance with the
payment scheduled adopted by the Board for said parking meter space, as
indicated by appropriate signs on the parking meter itself.



 



 



SEC. 89.35.5.  FAILURE TO PAY FOR A PARKING METER SPACE.



   (Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 180,092, Eff. 9/7/08.)



 



   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park, or to cause,
allow, permit or suffer to be parked, a vehicle in any parking meter space
without immediately making or causing to be made a lawful payment at an
applicable parking meter as provided in Section 89.35.4.



 



   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, allow, permit or
suffer any vehicle to remain in any parking meter space for more than the
time indicated by posted signs or on an applicable parking meter indicating
the maximum parking time allowed in such parking meter space, or during any
time the applicable parking meter is indicating that the time has elapsed for
which lawful payment has been made for said parking meter space.



 



   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make or cause to be
made a payment in a parking meter for the purpose of increasing or extending
the parking time of any such vehicle beyond the legal parking time which has
been established by the General Manager for the parking meter space.



 



 



SEC. 89.35.6.  IMPROPER USE OR MISUSE OF PARKING METERS.



   (Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 180,092, Eff. 9/7/08.)



 



   It shall be unlawful to deposit or cause to be deposited in any parking
meter any defaced or bent coin, or any slug, device, metallic or other
substitute for any money of the United States of America, or for any person
to deface, injure, tamper with, open or willfully break, destroy or impair
the usefulness of any parking meters, or to place any foreign matter or
substance in said parking meter or any part thereof.



 



 



SEC. 89.36.  STOPPING AT RED CURB.



 



   No person shall stop any vehicle at any time adjacent to a curb marked
in red.



 



 



SEC. 89.37.  PARKING AT GREEN CURB.



 



   No person shall park any vehicle adjacent to any curb marked in green
for any period in excess of the time indicated, and in no case in excess of
15 minutes.



 



 



SEC. 89.38.  PARKING AT YELLOW CURB.



 



   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle between the hours of 7:00
o’clock A.M. and 6:00 P.M. on any day except Sunday in a commercial loading
zone indicated by yellow curb except that commercial vehicles may stop or
stand for the purpose of loading or unloading freight for the time necessary
therefor, but not to exceed 20 minutes. Passenger vehicles may stop or stand
for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers and their personal baggage
and then only for the time necessary therefor, but in no event for more than
three minutes.



 



 



SEC. 89.39.  PARKING AT WHITE CURB.



   (Added by Ord. No. 127,959, Eff. 8/28/64.)



 



   No person shall park any vehicle other than a private passenger
automobile adjacent to any white curb and shall not park such vehicle for any
greater period of time than is actually necessary for the loading or
unloading of passengers or personal baggage, and in no event for a longer
period than 3 minutes. This section shall not apply to busses.



 



 



SEC. 89.39.1.  PARKING PROHIBITED OR LIMITED.



   (Added by Ord. No. 127,959, Eff. 8/28/64.)



 



   (a)   Stopping or Standing Prohibited.  Whenever authorized signs
are in place giving notice that stopping or standing are prohibited during
such hours or on such days as are indicated on such signs, it shall be
unlawful for any person to stop or stand or park any vehicle at any time
during such hours of such days.



 



   (b)   Parking Prohibited.  Whenever authorized signs are in place
giving notice that parking is prohibited at any time or during certain hours,
it shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle during such
prohibited times.



 



   (c)   Parking Time Limits.  Whenever authorized signs are in place
giving notice thereof, it shall be unlawful for any person to stop or stand
or park any vehicle for a period of time in excess of the parking time limit
indicated by such sign.



 



 



SEC. 89.39.2.  PARKING RESTRICTED TO HOTEL – MOTEL OPERATED VEHICLES.



   (Added by Ord. No. 132,865, Eff. 9/22/66.)



 



   No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle, other than a
hotel-motel vehicle operating under permit issued by the Board for the
purpose of loading or unloading passengers and/or personal luggage, in any
place designated and posted for the parking of hotel-motel operated vehicles.



 



 



SEC. 89.40.  PARKING IN PARKING AREA.



   (Added by Ord. No. 127,959, Eff. 8/28/64.)



 



   (a)   No person shall park any vehicle in any public parking area
except between the painted lines indicating where such vehicles shall be
parked.



 



   (b)   No person shall park a vehicle as to use or occupy more than
one such marked parking space.



 



   (c)   No person shall remove a vehicle from any public parking area
without first paying all fees or charges due for the use of such parking
space.



 



 



SEC. 89.41.  IMPOUNDING OF VEHICLES.



   (Added by Ord. No. 127,959, Eff. 8/28/64.)



 



   The Manager is authorized to remove any vehicle parked on any roadway
in any Airport in violation of this division and to impound the same in any
public parking area. No owner or operator of any such vehicle shall
thereafter remove such vehicle without first paying the impound charge and
regular parking charge therefor.



 



 



SEC. 89.42.  CURB PARKING.



   (Added by Ord. No. 127,959, Eff. 8/28/64.)



 



   Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway where there are adjacent
curbs shall be stopped or parked with the right wheels parallel with and
within 18 inches of the right hand curb.



 



 



SEC. 89.43.  PARKING IN CROSSWALK.



   (Added by Ord. No. 127,959, Eff. 8/28/64.)



 



   No person shall stop any vehicle in a crosswalk.



 



 



SEC. 89.44.  EMERGENCY SUSPENSION OF PARKING.



   (Added by Ord. No. 127,959, Eff. 8/28/64.)



 



   (a)   The Manager is authorized, when he shall determine that
traffic congestion or hazard is likely to result from the holding of any
assemblage, celebration, or function, to prohibit parking or movement of
vehicles on any part of an Airport until such congestion or hazard is
eliminated.



 



   (b)   The Manager is further authorized to post signs giving notice
of such suspension of parking. Such signs shall bear the word “Temporary”
in addition to the other matter appearing thereon.



 



   (c)   No person shall drive or park any vehicle contrary to the
instruction of any sign posted pursuant to the terms of this section



 



 



SEC. 89.45.  PARKING OF FOR HIRE VEHICLES.



   (Added by Ord. No. 127,959, Eff. 8/28/64.)



 



   No person shall park any for hire vehicle in any place other than a
place provided therefor and appropriately marked as such.



 



 



SEC. 89.46.  PARKING RESTRICTED TO FOR HIRE VEHICLES.



   (Added by Ord. No. 127,959, Eff. 8/28/64.)



 



   No person shall park any vehicle other than a for hire vehicle in any
place set aside for the parking of for hire vehicles.



 



 



SEC. 89.47.  PEDESTRIANS USE SIDEWALKS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 127,959, Eff. 8/28/64.)



 



   No person shall walk within any roadway which is bounded by or adjacent
to a sidewalk.



 



 



SEC. 89.48.  PEDESTRIANS OUTSIDE CROSSWALKS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 127,959, Eff. 8/28/64.)



 



   (a)   Every pedestrian upon a roadway at any point other than within
a marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.



 



   (b)   The provisions of this section shall not relieve the driver of
a vehicle from the duty to exercise due care for the safety of any pedestrian
upon a roadway.



 



 



SEC. 89.49.  OFFICIAL TRAFFIC SIGNALS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 135,476, Eff 12/10/67.)



 



   Whenever traffic is controlled by official traffic signals exhibiting
the words “go,” “caution,” or “stop.” or exhibiting different
colored lights successively, one at a time, or with arrows, only the colors
designated in this section shall be used, and the terms and lights shall
indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles and pedestrians as hereinafter
provided;



 



   (a)   Green or Go.  Green alone or “go” on an official traffic
control signal means that:



 



   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall proceed straight through or
may turn right or left. Traffic may make a semicircular or U-turn only where
such turn is permitted by signs erected at such location. But vehicular
traffic, including vehicles turning right or left, shall yield the
right-of-way to other vehicles and pedestrians which were lawfully within the
intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the time such signal was first
exhibited.



 



   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway within any
marked or unmarked crosswalk, but shall yield the right-of-way to all
vehicles which were lawfully within the intersection at the time such signal
was first exhibited.



 



   (b)   Yellow or Caution.  Yellow or “caution” on an official
traffic control signal when shown following the green or “go” signals
means that:



 



   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the red or
stop signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter and vehicular traffic
will be required to stop when the red or stop signal is exhibited.



 



   No pedestrian shall enter the roadway or cross any part of a roadway or
proceed from or to a safety zone against a yellow or caution signal.



 



   (c)   Red or Stop.  Red alone or “stop” on an official traffic
control signal means:



 



   (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop at a limit
line, if marked, otherwise before entering the crosswalk on the near side of
the intersection or, if none, then before entering the intersection and shall
remain standing until green or “go” is shown alone, except as provided in
the next succeeding paragraphs.



 



   (2)   The driver of a vehicle which is stopped as close as
practicable at the entrance to the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection in obedience to a red or “stop” signal, may make a right
turn but shall yield the right-of way to pedestrians and other traffic
proceeding as directed by the signal at said intersection, except that the
Council may by ordinance prohibit any such right turn against a red or
“stop” signal at any intersection, which ordinance shall be effective
when a sign is erected at such intersection giving notice thereof.



 



   (3)   The driver of a vehicle on a one-way street which intersects
another one-way street on which traffic moves to the left shall stop in
obedience to a red or “stop” signal but may then make a left turn into
said one-way street, but shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians and
other traffic proceeding as directed by the signal at said intersection
except that the Council may by ordinance prohibit any such left turn as above
described, which ordinance shall be effective when a sign is erected at such
intersection giving notice thereof.



 



   (4)   No pedestrian shall enter any roadway or cross any part of the
roadway or proceed from or to a safety zone against a red or “stop”
signal.



 



 



SEC. 89.50.  WALK, WAIT, OR DON’T WALK.



   (Amended. by. Ord. No. 135,476, Eff. 12/10/67.)



 



   Whenever an official traffic control signal exhibiting the words
“walk” or “wait” or “don’t walk” are in place, the signals
shall indicate as follows:



 



   (a)   WALK.  A pedestrian facing the signal may proceed across the
roadway in the direction of the signal or in a diagonal direction across the
roadway within the intersection if so instructed by signs or signals
installed at or near the intersection.



 



   (b)   WAIT OR DON’T WALK.  No pedestrian shall start to cross the
roadway in the direction of such signal, but any pedestrian who has partially
completed his crossing on the walk signal shall proceed to a sidewalk safety
zone or island while the “wait” or “don’t walk” signal is showing.



 



 



 



DIVISION “W”
ESTABLISHMENT OF CIVIL PARKING PENALTIES



 




(Added by Ord. No. 168,782, Eff. 7/12/93, Oper 7/1/93.)




 



 



Section



89.60   Authority.



 



 



SEC. 89.60.  AUTHORITY.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 182,183, Eff. 8/11/12.)



 



   Pursuant to the authority of State law, a schedule of civil parking
penalties is hereby established for the violation of any regulation governing
the standing or parking of a vehicle under the California Vehicle Code or
other State law, any Federal law, and provisions of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code or of the Los Angeles Administrative Code.  The following fines and
late payment penalties are hereby established:



 




LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE




 


SECTION

 

DESCRIPTION

 

FINE

 

WITH LATE PENALTY

 

WITH SECOND PENALTY






80.25(b)

 

PARKING NEAR EMERGENCY VEHICLE

 

$63

 

$126

 

$151




80.49

 

WRONG SIDE/NOT PARALLEL - OVER 18" FROM CURB

 

$63

 

$126

 

$151




80.51(a)

 

PARKING ON LEFT SIDE OF ROADWAY

 

$58

 

$116

 

$141




80.53

 

PARKING WITHIN A PARKWAY

 

$63

 

$126

 

$151




80.54(h)1.

 

OVERNIGHT PARKING WITHOUT PERMIT

 

$68

 

$136

 

$161




80.55(a)1.

 

HAZARDOUS AREA

 

$58

 

$116

 

$141




80.55(a)2.

 

30 FEET OF INTERSECTION - BUSINESS DISTRICT

 

$58

 

$116

 

$141




80.55(a)3.

 

25 FEET CROSSWALK

 

$58

 

$116

 

$141




80.55.1

 

STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING WITHIN 15 FEET OF A DRIVEWAY USED BY EMERGENCY
VEHICLES (Added by Ord. No. 186,219, Eff. 8/12/19.)

 

$68

 

$136

 

$161




80.56(e)1.

 

PASSENGER ZONE (WHITE)

 

$58

 

$116

 

$141




80.56(e)2.

 

LOADING ZONE (YELLOW) 

 

$58

 

$116

 

$141




80.56(e)3.

 

SHORT TIME LIMIT ZONE (GREEN)

 

$58

 

$116

 

$141




80.56(e)4.

 

NO STOPPING ZONE (RED)

 

$93

 

$186

 

$211






 

PREFERENTIAL PARKING

 

$68

 

$136

 

$161




80.58.1

 

CARSHARE PARKING

 

$163

 

$326

 

$351




80.58.2

 

SPECIAL EVENT PARKING  (Added by Ord. No. 183,135, Eff. 7/8/14.)

 



 



 








 

FOR FIRST VIOLATION

 

$150

 

$300

 

$315






 

FOR SECOND VIOLATION WITHIN TWELVE MONTHS OF FIRST VIOLATION

 

$200

 

$400

 

$415






 

FOR THIRD AND SUBSEQUENT VIOLATIONS WITHIN TWELVE MONTHS OF FIRST VIOLATION

 

$250

 

$500

 

$515




80.61

 

ALLEY - STANDING IN

 

$68

 

$136

 

$161




80.66.1(d)

 

RESTRICTED ZONES

 

$68

 

$136

 

$161




80.69(a)

 

STOPPING OR STANDING PROHIBITED

 

$93

 

$186

 

$211




80.69(b)

 

PARKING PROHIBITED/STREET CLEANING

 

$73

 

$146

 

$171




80.69(c)

 

PARKING TIME LIMITS

 

$58

 

$116

 

$141




80.69(d)

 

PARKING OF VEHICLES MORE THAN SIX FEET HIGH

 

$58

 

$116

 

$141




80.69.1(a)

 

PARKING TRAILER - VEHICLE CAPABLE OF TOWING

 

$78

 

$156

 

$181




80.69.1(c)

 

UNHITCHED TRAILER:

 



 



 








 

FOR FIRST VIOLATION

 

$78

 

$156

 

$181






 

FOR SECOND VIOLATION WITHIN TWELVE MONTHS OF FIRST VIOLATION

 

$103

 

$206

 

$231






 

FOR THIRD AND SUBSEQUENT VIOLATIONS WITHIN TWELVE MONTHS OF FIRST VIOLATION

 

$133

 

$266

 

$291




80.69.2

 

COMMERCIAL VEHICLE AND TRAILERS PARKED IN RESIDENTIAL AREA

 



 



 








 

FOR FIRST VIOLATION

 

$78

 

$156

 

$181






 

FOR SECOND VIOLATION WITHIN TWELVE MONTHS OF FIRST VIOLATION

 

$103

 

$206

 

$231






 

FOR THIRD AND SUBSEQUENT VIOLATIONS WITHIN TWELVE MONTHS OF FIRST VIOLATION

 

$133

 

$266

 

$291




80.69.4

 

PARKING OF OVERSIZE VEHICLES

 



 



 








 

FOR FIRST VIOLATION

 

$73

 

$146

 

$171






 

FOR SECOND VIOLATION WITHIN TWELVE MONTHS OF FIRST VIOLATION

 

$98

 

$196

 

$221






 

FOR THIRD AND SUBSEQUENT VIOLATIONS WITHIN TWELVE MONTHS OF FIRST VIOLATION

 

$128

 

$256

 

$281




80.70

 

PARKING IN ANTI-GRIDLOCK ZONE

 

$163

 

$326

 

$351




80.71.3

 

PARKING IN FRONT YARD

 



 



 








 

FOR FIRST VIOLATION

 

$68

 

$136

 

$161






 

FOR SECOND VIOLATION WITHIN ONE YEAR OF FIRST VIOLATION

 

$93

 

$186

 

$211






 

FOR THIRD AND SUBSEQUENT VIOLATIONS WITHIN ONE YEAR OF FIRST VIOLATION

 

$143

 

$286

 

$311




80.71.4

 

PARKING ON PRIVATE DRIVEWAY OR PROPERTY

 

$68

 

$136

 

$161




80.72

 

PARKING ON RED FLAG DAY

 

$68

 

$136

 

$161




80.72.5

 

PARKING ON PRIVATE STREET

 

$93

 

$186

 

$211




80.73(a)

 

PEDDLING VEHICLES

 

$68

 

$136

 

$161




80.73(b)2.A. (3), (4), (5)

 

CATERING VIOLATION - DISTANCE LIMITATIONS

 

$68

 

$136

 

$161




80.73(b)2.F.

 

CATERING VIOLATION - TIME LIMITS

 



 



 








 

FOR FIRST VIOLATION

 

$73

 

$146

 

$171






 

FOR SECOND VIOLATION WITHIN TWELVE MONTHS OF FIRST VIOLATION

 

$123

 

$246

 

$271






 

FOR THIRD AND SUBSEQUENT VIOLATIONS WITHIN TWELVE MONTHS OF FIRST VIOLATION

 

$173

 

$346

 

$371




80.73(d)

 

“FOR HIRE” WITHOUT PERMIT

 

$68

 

$136

 

$161




80.73(f)

 

VIOLATING PROVISIONS OF PERMIT TO PARK

 

$68

 

$136

 

$161




80.73.1

 

STORING VEHICLES IN STREET

 

$93

 

$186

 

$211




80.73.2

 

USE OF STREET FOR STORAGE OF VEHICLES

 

$68

 

$136

 

$161




80.74

 

CLEANING VEHICLE IN STREET

 

$53

 

$106

 

$131




80.75.1

 

AUDIBLE STATUS INDICATOR

 

$58

 

$116

 

$141




85.01

 

REPAIRING VEHICLE IN STREET

 

$53

 

$106

 

$131




87.53

 

MOBLIE BILLBOARD

 

$255

 

$510

 

$535




87.55

 

PARKING OF VEHICLES WITH FOR SALE SIGNS

 



 



 








 

FOR FIRST VIOLATION

 

$105

 

$210

 

$235






 

FOR SECOND VIOLATION

 

$255

 

$510

 

$535






 

FOR THIRD AND SUBSEQUENT VIOLATIONS

 

$505

 

$1,010

 

$1,035




88.03(a)

 

PARKING OUTSIDE SPACE INDICATED

 

$58

 

$116

 

$141




88.13(a)

 

METER - FAILURE TO PAY

 

$63

 

$126

 

$151




88.13(b)

 

OVERTIME USE OF METER SPACE

 

$63

 

$126

 

$151




88.53

 

OFF-STREET PARKING OUTSIDE SPACE INDICATED

 

$58

 

$116

 

$141




88.63(a)

 

OFF-STREET METER - FAILURE TO PAY

 

$58

 

$116

 

$141




88.63(b)

 

OFF-STREET OVERTIME USE OF METER SPACE

 

$58

 

$116

 

$141




88.64(a)

 

FAILURE TO OBEY OFF-STREET PARKING SIGNS

 

$63

 

$126

 

$151




88.64(b)

 

OFF-STREET PARKING - TIME LIMITS

 

$63

 

$126

 

$151






 

ELECTRIC CHARGING STATION SPACES  (Added by Ord. No. 185,744, Eff. 10/15/18.)

 

$58

 

$116

 

$141





 



 




LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE – AIRPORTS




 


SECTION

 

DESCRIPTION

 

FINE

 

WITH LATE PENALTY

 

WITH SECOND PENALTY






89.35.5(a)

 

FAILURE TO PAY METER

 

$63

 

$126

 

$151




89.35.5(b)

 

FAILURE TO REMOVE VEHICLE WHEN METER EXPIRES

 

$63

 

$126

 

$151




89.35.5(c)

 

OVERTIME USE OF METER SPACE

 

$63

 

$126

 

$151




89.36

 

NO STOPPING - RED CURB

 

$93

 

$186

 

$211




89.37

 

PARKING AT GREEN CURB

 

$58

 

$116

 

$141




89.38

 

PARKING AT YELLOW CURB

 

$58

 

$116

 

$141




89.39

 

PARKING AT WHITE CURB

 

$58

 

$116

 

$141




89.39.1(a)

 

STOPPING OR STANDING PROHIBITED

 

$93

 

$186

 

$211




89.39.1(b)

 

PARKING PROHIBITED

 

$68

 

$136

 

$161




89.39.1(c)

 

PARKING TIME LIMITS

 

$58

 

$116

 

$141




89.39.2

 

PARKING RESTRICTED TO HOTEL-MOTEL VEHICLES

 

$58

 

$116

 

$141




89.40(a)

 

PARKING OUTSIDE PAINTED LINES

 

$58

 

$116

 

$141




89.40(b)

 

USING MORE THAN ONE SPACE

 

$58

 

$116

 

$141




89.42

 

PARALLEL PARKING - RIGHT WHEELS 18" FROM CURB

 

$63

 

$126

 

$151




89.43

 

PARKING IN CROSSWALK

 

$68

 

$136

 

$161




89.44(c)

 

VIOLATION OF EMERGENCY RULES OR SIGNS

 

$58

 

$116

 

$141




89.45

 

PARKING “FOR HIRE” VEHICLES

 

$58

 

$116

 

$141




89.46

 

PARKING RESTRICTED TO “FOR HIRE” VEHICLES

 

$58

 

$116

 

$141




171.04(c)

 

RESTRICTED/PRIVATE PARKING AREA

 

$93

 

$186

 

$211




171.04(h)

 

LOADING/UNLOADING ONLY

 

$93

 

$186

 

$211





 



 




LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE – HARBOR




 


SECTION

 

DESCRIPTION

 

FINE

 

WITH LATE PENALTY

 

WITH SECOND PENALTY






87.02

 

NO PARKING NEAR FIRE HYDRANT

 

$68

 

$136

 

$161




87.03

 

PARALLEL PARKING REQUIRED

 

$58

 

$116

 

$141




87.04

 

PARKING TIME LIMITED - SPECIFIED STREETS

 

$58

 

$116

 

$141




87.05

 

PARKING PROHIBITED - SPECIFIED STREETS

 

$68

 

$136

 

$161




87.06

 

PARKING PROHIBITED - CERTAIN STREETS

 

$68

 

$136

 

$161




87.09(a)

 

WITHIN 6 FEET OF RAILROAD TRACK

 

$63

 

$126

 

$151




87.09(b)

 

NO PARKING OR STANDING - POSTED AREAS

 

$93

 

$186

 

$211




87.09(c)

 

EXCESS OF TIME LIMIT

 

$58

 

$116

 

$141




87.09(d)

 

LOADING ZONES

 

$58

 

$116

 

$141




87.09(e)

 

TEMPORARY NO PARKING

 

$68

 

$136

 

$161




87.09(h)

 

PARKING IN MORE THAN ONE ALLOCATED SPACE

 

$58

 

$116

 

$141




87.09(k)

 

PARKING OTHER THAN BETWEEN PAINTED LINES

 

$58

 

$116

 

$141




87.11

 

RECREATION VEHICLE OVERNIGHT

 

$93

 

$186

 

$211





 



 



LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE – PARKS



 


SECTION

 

DESCRIPTION

 

FINE

 

WITH LATE PENALTY

 

WITH SECOND PENALTY




63.44 k.2.

 

NO PARKING BETWEEN POSTED HOURS

 

$68

 

$136

 

$161




63.44 k.7.

 

NO PARKING EXCEPT WITHIN STALLS - PARKING SLOT

 

$58

 

$116

 

$141




63.44 k.8.

 

SIGNS POSTED - NO PARKING

 

$68

 

$136

 

$161




86.03

 

PARKING IN PROHIBITED AREA

 

$68

 

$136

 

$161




86.06

 

NO PARKING OTHER THAN POSTED AREA

 

$58

 

$116

 

$141




 



 



CALIFORNIA VEHICLE CODE



 


SECTION

 

DESCRIPTION

 

FINE

 

WITH LATE PENALTY

 

WITH SECOND PENALTY






4000(a)(1)

 

NO EVIDENCE OF CURRENT REGISTRATION

 

$50

 

$135

 

$145




4152.5

 

FAILURE TO APPLY FOR REGISTRATION - FOREIGN VEHICLE

 

$25

 

$66

 

$76




4454(a)

 

FAILURE TO MAINTAIN REGISTRATION CARD WITH VEHICLE

 

$25

 

$66

 

$76




4462(b)

 

REGISTRATION PRESENTED FOR WRONG VEHICLE

 

$25

 

$66

 

$76




5200

 

LICENSE PLATE DISPLAY SPECIFIED

 

$25

 

$66

 

$76




5201

 

PLATES IMPROPERLY POSITIONED

 

$25

 

$66

 

$76




5201(f)

 

ILLEGAL PLATE COVERS

 

$25

 

$66

 

$76




5202

 

PERIOD OF DISPLAY OF PLATE SPECIFIED

 

$25

 

$66

 

$76




5204(a)

 

CURRENT TAB IMPROPERLY ATTACHED

 

$25

 

$66

 

$76




21113(a)

 

UNLAWFUL DRIVING OR PARKING ON PUBLIC GROUNDS

 

$63

 

$126

 

$151




21210

 

BICYCLE PARKED - IMPEDING PEDESTRIAN TRAFFIC PROHIBITED

 

$53

 

$106

 

$131




21211(b)

 

BLOCKING A BIKE PATH OR BIKE LANE

 

$93

 

$186

 

$211




22500(a)

 

PARKING WITHIN INTERSECTION

 

$68

 

$136

 

$161




22500(b)

 

PARKING ON CROSSWALK

 

$68

 

$136

 

$161




22500(c)

 

PARKING/SAFETY ZONE AND CURB

 

$68

 

$136

 

$161




22500(d)

 

PARKING FIRE STATION ENTRANCE

 

$68

 

$136

 

$161




22500(e)

 

BLOCKING DRIVEWAY

 

$68

 

$136

 

$161




22500(f)

 

PARKING ON SIDEWALK

 

$68

 

$136

 

$161




22500(g)

 

PARKING ALONG EXCAVATION

 

$68

 

$136

 

$161




22500(h)

 

DOUBLE PARKING

 

$68

 

$136

 

$161




22500(i)

 

PARKING IN BUS ZONE

 

$293

 

$381

 

$406




22500(j)

 

PARKING IN TUNNEL

 

$68

 

$136

 

$161




22500(k)

 

PARKING ON BRIDGE

 

$68

 

$136

 

$161




22500(l)

 

BLOCKING DISABLED ACCESS RAMP

 

$363

 

$406

 

$431




22500.1

 

STOPPING IN DESIGNATED FIRE LANE

 

$63

 

$126

 

$151




22502(a)

 

PARKING 18" FROM CURB

 

$63

 

$126

 

$151




22502(e)

 

CURB PARKING ONE-WAY ROADWAY

 

$63

 

$126

 

$151




22504(a)

 

UNINCORPORATED AREA STOPPING

 

$63

 

$126

 

$151




22505(b)

 

UNAUTHORIZED STOPPING ON STATE HIGHWAY PROHIBITED

 

$63

 

$126

 

$151




22507.8(a)

 

*DISABLED PARKING - ON/OFF STREET

 

$363

 

$406

 

$431




22507.8(b)

 

DISABLED PARKING - OBSTRUCT ACCESS

 

$363

 

$406

 

$431




22507.8(c)1

 

DISABLED PARKING - BOUNDARIES

 

$363

 

$406

 

$431




22507.8(c)2

 

DISABLED PARKING - CROSSHATCHED

 

$363

 

$406

 

$431




22510

 

PARKING IN SNOW REMOVAL AREAS

 

$63

 

$126

 

$151




22511.56(b)

 

MISUSE OF DISABLED PERSON PARKING PRIVILEGES

 

$363

 

$406

 

$431




22511.57(a)

 

DISABLED PLACARD - USE OF LOST, STOLEN, REVOKED OR EXPIRED PLACARD
(Added by Ord. No. 186,068, Eff. 5/27/19.)

 

$1,100

 

$1,125

 

$1,150




22511.57(b)

 

DISABLED PLACARD - NOT USED FOR TRANSPORT OF PERSON ISSUED PLACARD
(Added by Ord. No. 186,068, Eff. 5/27/19.)

 

$1,100

 

$1,125

 

$1,150




22511.57(c)

 

DISABLED PLACARD - USE OF COUNTERFEIT, FORGED, ALTERED OR MUTILATED PLACARD
(Added by Ord. No. 186,068, Eff. 5/27/19.)

 

$1,100

 

$1,125

 

$1,150




22513(b)(c)

 

TOW CARS - PARKING ON FREEWAY RESTRICTED

 

$63

 

$126

 

$151




22514

 

FIRE HYDRANTS

 

$68

 

$136

 

$161




22515

 

UNATTENDED VEHICLE

 

$63

 

$126

 

$151




22520.5(a)

 

VENDING ON FREEWAY RIGHT-OF-WAY PROHIBITED

 

$63

 

$126

 

$151




22520.6(a)

 

UNAUTHORIZED ACTIVITIES AT HIGHWAY REST AREA/VISTA POINT PROHIBITED

 

$63

 

$126

 

$151




22521

 

PARKING ON RAILROAD TRACKS

 

$63

 

$126

 

$151




22522

 

PARKING NEAR SIDEWALK ACCESS RAMP 

 

$363

 

$406

 

$431




22523(a)(b)

 

VEHICLE ABANDONMENT PROHIBITED

 

$143

 

$286

 

$311




22526(a)(b)

 

BLOCKING INTERSECTION (GRIDLOCK) PROHIBITED – A STOPPING VIOLATION ISSUED
ON A NOTICE TO APPEAR:

 



 



 








 

FOR FIRST VIOLATION

 

$93

 

$186

 

$211






 

FOR SECOND VIOLATION WITHIN ONE YEAR OF FIRST VIOLATION

 

$143

 

$286

 

$311






 

FOR THIRD AND SUBSEQUENT VIOLATIONS WITHIN TWO YEARS OF FIRST VIOLATION

 

$358

 

$396

 

$421




22526(c)

 

BLOCKING RAIL TRANSIT CROSSING DUE TO LOW UNDERCARRIAGE (GRIDLOCK) PROHIBITED
– A STOPPING VIOLATION ON A NOTICE TO APPEAR:

 



 



 








 

FOR FIRST VIOLATION

 

$113

 

$226

 

$251






 

FOR SECOND VIOLATION WITHIN ONE YEAR OF FIRST VIOLATION

 

$153

 

$306

 

$331






 

FOR THIRD AND SUBSEQUENT VIOLATIONS WITHIN TWO YEARS OF FIRST VIOLATION

 

$368

 

$416

 

$436




22951

 

PARKING LOT - STREET AND ALLEY PARKING

 

$63

 

$126

 

$151




23333

 

VEHICULAR CROSSING - UNAUTHORIZED STOPPING OR STANDING

 

$63

 

$126

 

$151




25300(b)(c)(e)

 

WARNING DEVICE ON DISABLED VEHICLES SPECIFIED

 

$25

 

$66

 

$76




31303(d)

 

PARKING HAZARDOUS WASTE CARRIER IN RESIDENTIAL AREA

 

$383

 

$576

 

$601





 



* Citation may be cancelled with proof of valid placard per CVC § 40226 and
payment of a $25 administrative fee.



 



 



CALIFORNIA CODE OF REGULATION– TITLE 14
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION



 


SECTION

 

DESCRIPTION

 

FINE

 

WITH LATE PENALTY

 

WITH SECOND PENALTY




4326

 

VIOLATION OF POSTED ORDERS

 

$68

 

$136

 

$161




 



 



   Any federal, state or local standing or parking regulation constituting
a violation for which no provision is made in this schedule shall have a fine
of $63 and with late penalty of $126 and a second late payment penalty of
$151.



 



   The parking fines and late payment penalties listed here for a section
shall apply to all unlisted subsections.



 



   A parking fine shall be increased by a late payment penalty if payment
is received more than 14 days from the mailing date of a notice of delinquent
parking violation.  For the purposes of this schedule, the penalties are
added to the original fine and included under the “fine with late
penalty” amounts listed above.



 



   The second late payment penalty will be applied only if payment is
received more than 58 days from the date of issuance.  For purposes of this
schedule, the second penalty is added to the "fine with second penalty"
amount.



 



    Any surcharges or assessments, including any penalties or other fees,
mandated by State law for a violation and not included in the fine and late
penalties shall be added to the fine for the violation.



 



   A parking fee shall be increased by the current DMV charge when a hold
vehicle registration renewal is placed with the Department of Motor Vehicles.



 



   A parking fine shall be increased by the amount of the fee that is
charged to the City upon assignment as a delinquent account for Special
Collection processing and/or if the City assigns to an outside collection
agency or independent third party collectors.



 



 



 



 


Disclaimer:
The information published on this website is updated periodically.
Consequently, there may be delays of up to three (3) months between the
passage of legislation and its posting. Please visit the City of Los Angeles
website at www.lacity.org to see more recently-enacted legislation.

