

Los Angeles Municipal Code


CHAPTER II*
LICENSES, PERMITS, BUSINESS REGULATIONS



 



 



   Article



 




   1   Business Taxes











   1.1   Telephone, Electricity and Gas Users Tax











   1.2   1984 Olympic Games Ticket Distribution Tax











   1.3   Commercial Tenant’s Occupancy Tax











   1.5   Use Tax [Suspended]











   1.6   Uniform Sales and Use Tax











   1.7   Transient Occupancy Tax











   1.8   Cigarette Tax Ordinance











   1.9   Real Property Transfer Tax











   1.10   Dwelling Unit Construction Tax











   1.12   Tax Penalty Amnesty











   1.13   Residential Development Tax











   1.14   Special Fire Safety and Paramedic Communications Equipment Tax











   1.15   Parking Occupancy Tax











   1.16   Special Police Communications / 911 System Tax











   1.17   Enterprise Zone Hiring Tax Credit Voucher Application Fees











   2   Definitions – Authority and Procedure – Revocation of Permits











   6   Bicycles and Vehicles











   8   Advertising











   9   Repossession of Motor Vehicles – Permit Requirements




 




   *  Each reference in Sections 21.00 through 29.02, inclusive, to
‘City Clerk’ is amended to read ‘Director of Finance’ (Amended by
Ord. No. 173,304 Eff. 6/30/00, Oper. 7/1/00).  However, the City Clerk shall
continue to perform the functions under Chapter II until such time as the
Mayor and Council establish an official date of transfer of responsibilities.




 



 



 



ARTICLE 1
BUSINESS TAXES



 




(Art. 1, Ch. II, Added by Ord. No. 115,044, Eff. 1/1/60; Title Amended by
Ord. No. 178,101, Eff. 1/9/07.)




 



 



Section



21.00   Definitions.



21.01   Unlawful Business Not Authorized.



21.02   Constitutional Exemptions.



21.03   Imposition of Tax.



21.03.1   Automatic Tax Rate Reduction



21.04   Due Dates.



21.05   Delinquent Dates – Interest – Penalties.



21.06   Separate Registration Certificate Required for Each Location and
Each Business Tax Classification.



21.06.1   Single Primary Tax Classification Election.



21.07   Refunds of Overpayments.



21.08   Business Tax Registration Certificate – Form.



21.09   Business Tax Registration Certificates – Posting and Keeping.



21.10   Business Tax Registration Certificates – Charge for Duplication.



21.11   Business Tax Registration Certificate – Transfer.



21.12   Business Tax Registration Certificates – Suspension.



21.13   Newly Established Businesses – Computation of Business Tax.



21.14   Written Statements – When Required –  Computation of the Tax.



21.15   Director of Finance – Duty to Enforce –  Powers –  Rules
and Regulations.



21.16   Assessment – Administrative Remedy.



21.16.1   Voluntary Disclosure.



21.17   Confidential Character of Information Obtained  – Disclosure
Unlawful.



21.18   Delinquent Taxes – Installment Payment.



21.19   Delinquent Taxes – Suit for Recovery.



21.20   Delinquent Taxes – Debt Not Discharged by Penal Conviction.



21.21   Delinquent Taxes – Uncollectible.



21.22   Religious, Charity, Etc.; Procedure for Issuance of Tax Exempt
Registration Certificates.



21.23   Effect of Repeals and Amendments.



21.25   Relief for Earthquake Interruption.



21.26   Empowerment Zone - City Business Tax Reductions, Limitations, and
Exemptions.



21.27   Entertainment and Multimedia Business Tax Limitations.



21.29   Small Business Exemption.



21.30   New Business Exemption.



21.31   Settlement Bureau.



21.32   Rewards for Information.



21.33   [Tax Rates.]



21.41   Gross Receipts Fund Class 1.



21.43   Gross Receipts Fund Class 2.



21.46   Gross Receipts Fund Class 6.



21.47   Gross Receipts Fund Class 7.



21.48   Gross Receipts Fund Class 8.



21.49   Gross Receipts Fund Class 9.



21.50   Taxation of Medical Marijuana Collectives.



21.51   Taxation of Cannabis.



21.52   Taxation of Medical Cannabis.



21.53   Amusement Park.



21.55   Auctioneer.



21.62   Billiards, Etc.



21.63   Amusement Machines.



21.64   Coin-operated Phonographs and Music Machines.



21.65.1   Coin-operated Scales and Service Machines.



21.70   Bowling Alley, Skee-ball Shuffleboard, Etc.



21.74   Circuses.



21.75   Side Shows, Carnivals, Concessions.



21.83   Dance Hall.



21.85   Public Dance.



21.94   Rides.



21.108   Money Lenders.



21.109   Motion Picture, Television and Radio Producers.



21.142   Stevedores.



21.167.1   Sales of Firearms and Ammunition.



21.168.1   Out of State Sales.



21.168.2   Sale for Convenience.



21.168.3   Certain Solicitors Deemed Employees.



21.168.4   Exemption – Temporary Exhibitors at Tradeshows.



21.168.5   Certified Producers Deemed Employees.



21.169   Christmas Trees.



21.170   Christmas Tree Lot Clean-up Deposits.



21.171   Retailers of New Passenger Motor Vehicles.



21.187   Common Carrier Bus.



21.188   Contractors.



21.190.1   Exemption.



21.193   Sale of Real Property.



21.194   Transporting Persons for Hire.



21.195   Trucking – Hauling



21.196   Miscellaneous Trucking.



21.199   Sales Tax.



 



 



SEC. 21.00.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   The following words and phrases whenever used in this article and in
Article 1.5 shall be construed as defined in this section, unless from the
context a different meaning is intended or unless a different meaning is
specifically defined and more particularly directed to the use of such words
or phrases:



 



   (a)   "GROSS RECEIPTS." (Amended by Ord. No. 176,326, Eff. 1/16/05,
Oper. 1/1/05.) Except as otherwise specifically provided, the term "gross
receipts" as used in this article shall mean the gross receipts of the tax
year and shall be calculated on either a cash or accrual basis in accordance
with Internal Revenue Service guidelines.  Gross Receipts is defined as
follows:



 



   The total amount charged or received for all sales and commissions for
the performance of any act, service or employment of whatever nature it may
be, whether such service, act or employment is done as part of or in
connection with the sale of goods, wares, merchandise or not, for which a
charge is made or credit allowed, including all receipts, cash, credits and
property of any kind or nature, any amount for which credit is allowed by the
seller to the purchaser without any deduction therefrom on account of the
cost of the property sold, the cost of materials used, labor or service
costs, interest paid or payable, losses or any other expense whatsoever. 
Gross receipts shall also include the amount of any federal manufacturers or
importers excise tax included in the price of the property sold, even though
the manufacturer or importer is also the retailer thereof and whether or not
the amount of such tax is stated as a separate charge.



 



   The term "GROSS RECEIPTS" as used in this article shall not include the
following:



 



   (1)   Cash discounts allowed or taken on sales;



 



   (2)   Any part of the sales price of any property previously sold
and returned  by the purchaser to the seller which is refunded by the seller
by way of cash or credit allowances given or taken as part payment on any
property so accepted for resale;



 



   (3)   The amount of any federal tax imposed on or with respect to
retail sales whether imposed upon the retailer or upon the consumer and
regardless of whether or not the amount of federal tax is stated to customers
as a separate charge, or any California state, City, or city and county sales
or use tax required by law to be included in or added to the purchase price
and  collected from the consumer or purchaser;



 



   (4)   The amount derived from a business activity sold or otherwise
transferred to another person during the preceding calendar year;



 



   (5)   Any  amount received from or charged to any person which is a
related entity to the taxpayer.  A person is a related entity to a taxpayer
if 80% or more of the ownership interests in both value and voting power of
said person and the taxpayer are held, directly or indirectly, by the same
person or persons.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, any amount received from
or charged to any person which is a related entity to a taxpayer shall be
included in "gross receipts" when said amount is compensation for activities,
including but not limited to, selling, renting and service performed by the
taxpayer for any person which is not a related entity to the taxpayer; and



 



   (6)   Any uncollectible amount apportioned to the City of Los
Angeles which has been written off as a "bad debt" in compliance with
Internal Revenue Service guidelines.  Any portion of bad debt subsequently
recovered by a taxpayer shall constitute taxable "gross receipts" in the year
that it is recovered.  The provisions of this exclusion shall apply to any
person paying a tax under the provisions of this article.



 



   The term "Tax Year" as used in this article shall mean the calender
year unless there is a specific election to use the business's fiscal year. 
After an election to use the fiscal year is made, a business may not change
its tax measure year from that fiscal year, unless it changes its fiscal year
or receives a waiver from the Director of Finance.  The measure of tax for a
business electing to use its fiscal year shall be attributable to the 12
month period ending on the last day of its fiscal year, and shall be for the
fiscal year ending in the calendar year that would otherwise be the measuring
year.



 



   (b)   “BUSINESS TAX” shall mean the privilege tax imposed upon
persons engaged in the businesses or occupations described in Sections 21.50
to 21.198, inclusive, of this article for the privilege of engaging in such
businesses or occupations within the City of Los Angeles.



 



   “SALES TAX” shall mean that tax imposed by Section 21.199 of
Article 1, Chapter 2 of this Code.



 



   “USE TAX” shall mean that tax imposed by Article 1.5 of Chapter 2
of this Code.



 



   (c)   “NEWLY ESTABLISHED BUSINESS” shall mean a business which
was not engaged in during the immediately preceding business tax period
specified for that kind of business. A business to which a valid existing
registration certificate is transferred pursuant to the provisions of Sec.
21.11 is not a newly established business, and shall be taxed as if the
ownership had not changed.



 



   The following shall not be considered newly established businesses:



 



   (1)   The business engaged in from a new location whether within or
outside the City when the business conducted and taxed at the location used
during the preceding business tax period was discontinued at the same time or
prior to commencement of business at the new location;



 



   (2)   The business engaged in during the current business tax period
is the same kind as that engaged in during the immediately preceding period,
but not at the close thereof;



 



   (3)   The business to be engaged in during the current tax period
though not in fact the same kind of business, is taxed under the same section
as the business engaged in during, but not necessarily throughout the
immediate preceding tax period.



 



   Provided that the Director of Finance may, on written application by
the taxpayer, and after considering all circumstances, find that a business
described in this paragraph is in fact new and not a continuation of a
business engaged in during the immediately preceding business tax period.



 



   (d)   “PERSON” shall mean any individual, receiver,
administrator, executor, assignee, trustee in bankruptcy, trust, estate,
firm, partnership, joint venture, club, company, joint stock company,
business trust, domestic or foreign corporation, association, syndicate,
society, or any group of individuals acting as a unit, whether mutual,
cooperative, fraternal, nonprofit or otherwise.  (Amended by Ord. No. 174,
272, Eff. 11/26/01.)



 



   (e)   “REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE” shall mean Business Tax
Registration Certificate.



 



   (f)   “STREET” shall include all streets, avenues, highways,
alleys, courts, lanes, places, squares, curbing, sidewalks or other public
ways in this City which have been or may hereafter be dedicated as such and
open to public use.



 



   (g)   “SALE,” “SELL” shall be deemed to include and refer
to: The making of any transfer of title, in any manner or by any means
whatsoever, to tangible personal property for a price, and the serving,
supplying or furnishing, for a price, of any tangible personal property
fabricated or made at the special order of consumers who do or who do not
furnish directly or indirectly the specifications therefor. A transaction
whereby the possession of property is transferred but the seller retains the
title as security for the payment of the price shall likewise be deemed a
sale. The foregoing definitions shall not be deemed to exclude any
transaction which is or which, in effect, results in a sale within the
contemplation of law.



 



   (h)   “BUSINESS” shall mean any activity, enterprise,
profession, trade or undertaking of any nature conducted or engaged in, or
ordinarily conducted or engaged in, with the object of gain, benefit or
advantage, whether direct or indirect, to the taxpayer or to another or
others.  The term shall include operations of subsidiary or independent
entities conducted for the benefit of others and at no profit to themselves,
nonprofit businesses and trade associations.  A person shall not be deemed
to be engaged in business solely by reason of receipt of dividend or interest
income from passive investments.  (Amended by Ord. No. 174, 272, Eff.
11/26/01.)



 



   (i)   “ENGAGED IN BUSINESS” shall mean the conducting,
operating, managing or carrying on of a business, whether done as owner, or
by means of an officer, agent, manager, or employee.  A person shall be
deemed engaged in business within the City if:



 



   (1)   such person or his employee maintains a fixed place of
business within the City for the benefit or partial benefit of such person, or



 



   (2)   such person or his employee owns or leases real property
within the City for business purposes, or



 



   (3)   such person or his employee regularly maintains a stock of
tangible personal property in the City  for sale in the ordinary course of
business, or



 



   (4)   such person or his employee regularly conducts solicitation of
business within the City, or



 



   (5)   such person or his employee performs work or renders services
in the City on a regular and continuous basis involving not less than seven
working days per year for all such employees, or



 



   (6)   such person or his employee utilizes the streets within the
City in connection with the operation of motor vehicles for business purposes.



 



   The foregoing specified activities shall not be a limitation on the
meaning of engaged in business.  (Amended by Ord. No. 174, 272, Eff.
11/26/01.)



 



   (j)   (Added by Ord. No. 172,783, Eff. 9/30/99.) “INDEPENDENT
CONTRACTOR” shall mean: any entity, other than an individual, that performs
services for a principal; and any individual who performs services for a
principal for a specified recompense for a specified result, under control of
the principal as to the result of the work only and not as to the means by
which such result is accomplished.  An independent contractor receives
income that should be reported to the Internal Revenue Service by the
principal on IRS Form 1099, should report the income to the Internal Revenue
Service on IRS Form 1040, Schedule C and may deduct the cost of the use of a
home for business purposes on said Schedule C.  Factors which indicate
status as an independent contractor are if an individual:



 



   (1)   is not required to follow instructions on how to perform
services;



 



   (2)   possesses the skills necessary to perform the task and does
not need additional training;



 



   (3)   performs services that are not essential to the principal’s
business or are not incorporated into the product or services sold by the
principal;



 



   (4)   should be able to subcontract all or a portion of the project;



 



   (5)   can hire and supervise his or her own employees, but should
not supervise, or be supervised by, the principal’s employees;



 



   (6)   generally works on one project and moves on, acquiring
additional projects when and if he or she is available;



 



   (7)   establishes his or her hours of work, working as necessary to
accomplish the end result;



 



   (8)   usually has the right to work simultaneously for the principal
and others, as long as the end result is achieved;



 



   (9)   should be able to choose where to perform some, if not all, of
the services;



 



   (10)   can control the manner and method of performing the services;



 



   (11)   is responsible only for the end result, and is not required
to submit interim reports;



 



   (12)   generally is paid a flat rate for the completion of the
project;



 



   (13)   is expected to assume the burden of business expenses;



 



   (14)   should have the tools and equipment necessary to perform the
services independently;



 



   (15)   makes as an investment in tools, business equipment,
publications and supplies appropriate for his or her business;



 



   (16)   accepts both the benefits and risks of a business
transaction, in that he or she has the opportunity to profit from the project
price and risks a loss if the end result is unacceptable or costs exceed the
project price;



 



   (17)   can and does work for multiple firms simultaneously;



 



   (18)   offers his or her services to the general public;



 



   (19)   can be terminated only according to the terms of an
agreement, and could recover damages for breach of contract if termination is
outside the scope of the agreement; and



 



   (20)   has as an obligation to complete the work under contract.



 



   (k)   (Added by Ord. No. 172,783, Eff. 9/30/99.)  “EMPLOYEE”
shall mean any individual who performs services for a principal in a capacity
other than as an independent contractor.  An employee receives income that
should be reported to the Internal Revenue Service by the principal on IRS
Form W2, should not report the income to the Internal Revenue Service on IRS
Form 1040, Schedule C and may not deduct the cost of the use of a home for
business purposes on said Schedule C.  Factors which indicate status as an
employee are if an individual:



 



   (1)   can receive instructions concerning the means and methods of
achieving a result;



 



   (2)   may receive training from the principal;



 



   (3)   provides the services essential to bringing the principal’s
product or services to market;



 



   (4)   cannot delegate his or her responsibilities;



 



   (5)   deals with subcontractors and employees only within the
framework of the principal’s directions or policies;



 



   (6)   has a continuing relationship with the principal;



 



   (7)   must work the hours that are dictated by the principal;



 



   (8)   usually must make a time commitment to the principal;



 



   (9)   must perform services at the location chosen by the principal;



 



   (10)   is subject to the principal’s control over the sequence of
tasks;



 



   (11)   can be required to submit interim reports;



 



   (12)   is usually paid on an hourly or salary basis;



 



   (13)   is usually reimbursed for business expenses;



 



   (14)   is provided needed tools by the principal;



 



   (15)   is not required to invest in the principal’s business;



 



   (16)   is paid for his or her time and bears no risk of wage loss if
the principal’s product is unprofitable;



 



   (17)   can be precluded from some alternative jobs;



 



   (18)   does not perform services directly for the public, but only
for the principal;



 



   (19)   can be discharged at will; and



 



   (20)   normally may terminate his or her relationship with the
principal without incurring liability.



 



   (l)   (Added by Ord. No. 172,820, Eff. 10/28/99, Oper. 1/1/01.)
“INDUSTRY CODE” shall mean the industrial classification number assigned
to an industry in the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)
by the Executive Office of the President, Office of Management and Budget.



 



 



SEC. 21.01.  UNLAWFUL BUSINESS NOT AUTHORIZED.



 



   No registration certificate or permit issued under the provisions of
Article 1 or Article 1.5 of Chapter 2 of this Code, or the payment of any tax
required under the provisions of Article 1 or Article 1.5 of Chapter 2 of
this Code shall be construed as authorizing the conduct or continuance of any
illegal business or of a legal business in an illegal manner.



 



 



SEC. 21.02.  CONSTITUTIONAL EXEMPTIONS.



 



   Nothing in Article 1 or Article 1.5 of Chapter 2 of this Code shall be
construed as requiring the payment of any tax for engaging in a business or
the doing of an act when such payment would constitute an unlawful burden
upon or an unlawful interference with interstate or foreign commerce, or
which payment would be in violation of the Constitution of the United States
or the Constitution of the State of California.



 



 



SEC. 21.03.  IMPOSITION OF TAX.



 



   (a)   Subject to the provisions of this Article, a business tax
registration certificate must be obtained and a business tax must be paid by
every person engaged in any of the businesses or occupations specified in
this Article; and a business tax is hereby imposed in the amount prescribed
in the applicable section.  No person shall engage in any business or
occupation subject to tax under the provisions of this Article without
obtaining a registration certificate and paying the tax required.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 181,696, Eff. 6/18/11.)



 



   (b)   The business tax registration certificate required to be
obtained and the tax required to be paid are hereby declared to be required
pursuant to the taxing power of the City of Los Angeles solely for the
purpose of obtaining revenue. Compliance with such requirements shall not be
construed to be a condition precedent to engaging in any business or
occupation within the City of Los Angeles where the imposition of such a
condition precedent would be contrary to law.



 



   (c)   Commencing on January 1, 1981 the Director of Finance is
directed not to enforce the Business Tax Ordinance against financial
corporations for the tax years beginning January 1, 1981 until directed to do
otherwise by the City Council by resolution. (Added by Ord. No. 154,914, Eff.
4/2/81.)



 



 



SEC. 21.03.1.  AUTOMATIC TAX RATE REDUCTION.



   (Title and Section Amended by Ord No. 176,324, Eff. 1/16/05, Oper.
1/1/06.)



 



   Commencing with the tax year 2006, the tax rates contained in this
Article which are based upon gross receipts shall be reduced by up to 4% per
year.  The maximum total rate reduction shall be 15% from the rates imposed
as of December 31, 2005.  The yearly tax rate reduction shall be calculated
by the Director of Finance on a percentage basis rounded to the nearest
one-tenth percent (1/10%) from the net increase in business tax revenue above
a baseline.  Net business tax revenue shall be the amount credited as
Business Tax in the Statement of Receipts published in the annual
Controller's Preliminary Financial Report.  The baseline shall be the
revenue forecast for business tax receipts prepared in conjunction with the
2004-2005 City budget set forth as follows:



 



   Fiscal Year      Revenue Forecast



 



   2004-2005      $384,815,000



   2005-2006      $400,977,000



   2006-2007      $417,016,000



   2007-2008      $433,697,000



   2008-2009      $451,045,000



   2009-2010      $469,087,000



 



The baseline revenue forecast for each year beyond the 2009-2010 shall be
calculated based upon a 4% per annum increase from the previous year.



 



   There shall be no tax reduction in any year in which the net revenue
increase is less than one percent (1%).  Any percentage increase below one
percent (1%) shall be carried over and added to the next year percentage
increase for purposes of calculating the rate reduction for that year.



 



   The Director of Finance shall issue a detailed annual report on the net
business tax revenue received each fiscal year and the basis for all
calculations and carryovers and shall publish or otherwise publicize the
revised rates for each year.



 



 



SEC. 21.04.  DUE DATES.



 



   All business taxes shall be paid to the Director of Finance in lawful
money of the United States and taxes required hereunder shall be paid in
advance except where otherwise specifically provided, and shall be due and
payable at the following times:



 



   (a)   Annual business taxes on the first day of January of each year;



 



   (b)   Quarterly business taxes on the first days of January, April,
July and October of each year;



 



   (c)   Monthly business taxes on the first day of each month;



 



   (d)   Daily business taxes on each day;



 



   (e)   When a business discontinues, dissolves, or otherwise
terminates before the expiration of a business tax period, any taxes accrued
and owing to the City under the provisions of this article or Article 1.5,
including any business taxes that would not otherwise be payable under the
close of the business tax period during which termination occurs, or until
time for paying the tax for the next succeeding business tax period, shall be
due on the date of termination.



 



   (f)   When a person first becomes subject to business tax by reason
of an amendment of this article, or because of such an amendment, becomes
subject to business tax under a section not previously applicable to such
person or on a basis not previously applicable to such person, any new or
additional tax required to be paid by reason of this article, as so amended
shall be due and payable upon the effective date of the amending ordinance
unless an operative date different from the effective date of the amendment
is specified therein. (Added by Ord. No. 128,639, Eff. 11/30/64.)



 



 



SEC. 21.05.  DELINQUENT DATES –  INTEREST – PENALTIES.



(Amended by Ord. No. 179,984, Eff. 8/3/08.)



 



   (a)   Delinquent Dates:  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,857, Eff.
10/4/11.)  Unless otherwise specifically provided for in other provisions of
this Article, all business taxes required to be paid shall be deemed
delinquent if not paid on or before or within the time prescribed in this
Article: 



 



   1.   Annual Business Taxes – on or before the close of business on
the last day of the month following the month in which the tax is due.



 



   2.   Quarterly Business Taxes – on or before the close of business
on the last day of the month in which the tax is due.



 



   3.   Monthly Business Taxes – on or before the close of business
on the last day of the month for which the tax is due.



 



   4.   Daily Business Taxes – on or before the close of business on
each day for which the tax is due.



 



   5.   Business Taxes Unpaid When a Business Has Been Discontinued,
Dissolved or Otherwise Terminated – within 45 days of the termination of
the business.



 



   6.   Deficiency Determinations – within 60 days of the date on
which the Office of Finance provides notice of determination on an assessment
or notice of the decision of an Assessment Review Officer, if applicable, or
within 30 days of the date on which the Office of Finance provides notice of
the decision of a Board of Review, whichever is later.



 



   (b)   Penalties:



 



   1.   Original Delinquency.  Any person who fails to pay any tax
required to be paid by this article, except deficiency determinations made by
the Director of Finance under Subsection (i) of Section 21.15 of this
article, within the time required shall pay a penalty of 5% of the amount of
the tax in addition to the amount of the tax.



 



   2.   Continued Delinquency.  Any person who fails to pay any
delinquent tax, except deficiency determinations made by the Director of
Finance under Subsection (i) of Section 21.15 of this article, on or before
the last day of:



 



   (i)   The first month in which the tax first became delinquent,
shall pay a second penalty of 5% of the amount of the tax in addition to the
amount of the tax and the 5% penalty first imposed;



 



   (ii)   The second month in which the tax first became delinquent,
shall pay a third penalty of 5% of the amount of the tax in addition to the
amount of the tax and the 10% in accumulated penalties previously imposed;



 



   (iii)   The third month in which the tax first became delinquent,
shall pay a fourth penalty of 5% of the amount of the tax in addition to the
amount of the tax and the 15% in accumulated penalties previously imposed.



 



   (iv)   The fourth month in which the tax first became delinquent,
shall pay a fifth penalty of 20% of the amount of the tax in addition to the
amount of the tax and the 20% in accumulated penalties previously imposed.



 



   3.   Deficiency Determinations.  Any person who fails to pay a
deficiency determination within 30 days after the Director of Finance has
notified him or her of the amount of the deficiency, shall pay a penalty of
20% of the amount of the deficiency determination in addition to the amount
of the deficiency determination.  Notice of a deficiency determination shall
be given in writing in the manner provided for the service of notices of
assessment in Subsection (b) of Section 21.16.



 



   4.   Overpayment.  For the purpose of allowing overpayments as
credit against underpayments of the above-mentioned taxes, whenever the
overpayment has been received by the City within the three years prior to an
underpayment, or during any year for which the taxpayer, at the request of
the Director of Finance, has executed a waiver of the defense of the statute
of limitations with regard to any claim the City may have for business tax,
the Director of Finance, when making determinations of the amount of taxes
due the City, shall make an allowance of credit for any overpayment. 
Overpayments shall be applied to underpayments in the oldest period(s) before
applying to a later period(s).  Whenever an overpayment has been made prior
to an underpayment, no penalty or interest shall apply upon the amount of the
underpayment satisfied by the prior overpayment.



 



   (c)   Negligence.  If the Director of Finance determines that the
nonpayment of any tax due under this article or Article 1.6 is due to
negligence or willful disregard of the provisions of this article or Article
1.6, a penalty of 10% of the amount of the tax shall be added to the tax due
in addition to the penalties stated in Subdivisions 1. and 2. of Subsection
(b) of this section.  If the Director of Finance determines that any part of
the deficiency of a deficiency determination is due to negligence or willful
disregard of the provisions of this article or Article 1.6, a penalty of 10%
of the amount of the deficiency determination shall be added in addition to
the penalties stated in Subdivision 3. of Subsection (b) of this section.



 



   (d)   Fraud.  If the Director of Finance determines that the
nonpayment of any tax due under this article or Article 1.6 is due to fraud,
a penalty of 25% of the amount of the tax shall be added, in addition to the
penalties stated in Subdivisions 1. and 2. of Subsection (b) of this
section.  If the Director of Finance determines that any part of the
deficiency determination is due to fraud, a penalty of 25% of the amount of
the deficiency determination shall be added, in addition to the penalties
stated in Subdivision 3. of Subsection (b) of this section.



 



   (e)   Interest.  In addition to the penalties imposed, any person
who fails to pay any tax required to be paid by this article or Articles 1.1,
1.3, 1.7, or 1.15 of this chapter shall pay interest on the amount of the
tax, exclusive of any penalty, from the date on which the tax first became
delinquent until the date it is paid, during each calendar year at the rate
per month, or fraction of the month, determined by dividing by 12 the sum of
the average Federal short-term rate during the months of July, August and
September of the prior calendar year plus three percentage points.  Unless
the monthly rate is evenly divisible by one-tenth of a percentage point, it
shall be rounded up to the next highest one-tenth of a percentage point. 
Interest shall run during any period of time for which the Director of
Finance has granted an extension of time.  Interest required by any of the
provisions of this section shall not be subject to waiver or compromise other
than in accordance with the provisions of Subsections (f) and (g) of Section
21.15 of this article, or as the Council may direct.



 



   (f)   Penalties and Interest Merge With Tax For Collection
Purposes.  For collection purposes only, every penalty imposed and the
interest that is accrued under the provisions of this section shall become a
part of the tax required to be paid.



 



SEC. 21.06.  SEPARATE REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE REQUIRED FOR EACH LOCATION
AND EACH BUSINESS TAX CLASSIFICATION.



 



   (a)   Unless otherwise provided in this article, every person who
engages in any business within this City which is subject to tax under the
provisions of this article shall be deemed to be engaged in a separate
business at each branch establishment or location at which he engages in
business and must obtain a separate registration certificate and pay a
separate business tax for each classification of business engaged in at each
location or branch establishment in the City at which or from which the
business activities classified and subject to tax under the provisions of
this article are carried on. Each registration certificate so obtained and
the payment of the applicable tax for each such classification of business at
each such location shall authorize the person named upon the certificate to
engage only in the business specified at the location for which the
certificate has been issued; provided that where business is engaged in from
one or more locations outside the City, only one registration certificate for
each classification of business need be issued to the person for engaging in
that business in the City from all such outside locations; provided further,
that warehouses and distributing plants located in the City used in
connection with and incidental to a business for which a registration
certificate has been issued to an address located within the City shall not
be deemed to be branch establishments or separate locations.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 131,873, Eff. 3/31/66.) 



 



   (b)   Whenever the business tax for a business imposed under the
provisions of this article is measured by the number of vehicles, devices,
machines, or other pieces of equipment used, or whenever the business tax is
measured by the gross receipts from the operation of coin-operated machines,
the Director of Finance shall issue only one registration certificate;
provided that he shall issue for each tax period for which the business tax
has been paid, one identifying sticker or symbol for each vehicle, device,
machine or other piece of equipment included in the measure of the tax or for
each coin-operated machine used in a business where the tax is measured by
the gross receipts from such coin-operated machines.



 



 



SEC. 21.06.1.  SINGLE PRIMARY TAX CLASSIFICATION ELECTION.



   (Added by Ord. No. 175,385, Eff. 9/14/03, Oper. 1/1/04.)



 



   (a)   When a person engages in a business that consists of two or
more activities taxable on the basis of annual gross receipts and one of the
activities generates at least 80% of the person’s annual taxable gross
receipts, that person may elect on a yearly basis to have all of its taxable
annual gross receipts reported and taxed at the rate applicable to the
activity constituting at least 80% of annual taxable receipts.



 



   Any business activities taxed other than on the basis of annual gross
receipts shall not be combined with business activities taxed on the basis of
annual gross receipts, and the receipts generated by the activities taxed
other than on the basis of annual gross receipts shall continue to be taxed
under the existing tax sections and shall be excluded in computing the 80%
threshold. 



 



   The provisions of this section shall only apply to gross receipts
generated by business activities conducted at or originating from the same
location or as otherwise provided for under Section 21.06.  All
apportionments shall be made prior to electing the single primary tax
classification using the appropriate apportionment formulas for each
classification. 



 



   (b)  Any tax deficiency or delinquency resulting from an election and
payment made pursuant to Subsection (a) in which the primary tax category
does not meet the 80% threshold shall accrue interest and penalties as set
forth in Section 21.05 of this Article.



 



 



SEC. 21.07.  REFUNDS OF OVERPAYMENTS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 181,051, Eff. 1/31/10.)



 



   No refund of an overpayment of taxes imposed by Article 1 and 1.5 of
Chapter 2 of this Code shall be made except under the following procedure



 



   (a)   No claim for refund shall be allowed in whole or in part
unless filed by the person claiming the overpayment, or his authorized agent
on his behalf, with the City Clerk within a period of one year from the date
of the claimed overpayment, and all such claims for refund of overpayment
must be filed with the City Clerk on forms furnished by the City and in the
manner prescribed by the City.



 



   (b)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to bring into being or
validate any claim for refund arising from a cause heretofore existent if
such claim, whether filed or not, was or would have been invalid because of
the then existing statutory term, and nothing in this section shall be deemed
to validate, revive, restore or continue any claim for refund heretofore
filed and denied.



 



   (c)   Insofar as the provisions of this section are in conflict with
the provisions of Sections 22.12, 22.13 of this Code, the language of this
section shall be construed to control and supersede the language of said
sections as to any such conflict.



 



   (d)   The City shall pay interest on the amount of each allowed
claim for refund of overpayment of tax, from the date of filing the claim for
refund or, in the case of a payment under protest or pursuant to a billing
from the Office of Finance, from the date of overpayment, until the date the
overpayment is paid, during each calendar year at the rate per month
determined by dividing by 12 the sum of the average Federal short-term rate
during the months of July, August and September of the prior calendar year. 
Unless the monthly rate is evenly divisible by one-tenth of a percentage
point, it shall be rounded up to the next highest one-tenth of a percentage
point.



 



 



SEC. 21.08.  BUSINESS TAX REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE — FORM.



 



   (a)   Each business tax registration certificate shall be prepared
and issued by the Director of Finance and shall state upon the face thereof
the following:



 



   1.   The name of the person to whom issued.



 



   2.   The classification of business engaged in and the section of
this article in which the business taxed is described.



 



   3.   The address of the location from which the business is
conducted, and, where it is different, the mailing address of the business
taxed; or where no fixed place of business is maintained, the mailing address
of the person to whom the registration certificate has been issued. The
mailing address so appearing shall be the address to which all notices
required or authorized in this article shall be sent unless the registrant
shall request in writing that another address be used for such purpose.



 



   4.   The period for which the certificate has been issued.



 



   (b)   Each business tax registration certificate shall state on the
back thereof the following:



 



   This business tax registration certificate signifies that the person
named on the face hereof has fulfilled the requirements of Article 1 of
Chapter II of the Los Angeles Municipal Code by registering with the Director
of Finance for the purpose of paying business tax for the classification of
business for which this certificate is issued. This certificate does not
authorize the person to conduct any unlawful business or to conduct any
lawful business in an illegal manner or to conduct within the City of Los
Angeles the business for which this certificate has been issued without
strictly complying with all the provisions of the ordinances of said City,
including but not limited to those requiring a permit from any board,
commission, department or office of the City. THIS BUSINESS TAX REGISTRATION
CERTIFICATE DOES NOT CONSTITUTE A PERMIT. Any failure to comply with the
requirements of Article 1 or Article 1.11 of Chapter II of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code shall constitute grounds for suspension of this certificate.
(Amended by Ord. No. 160,389, Eff. 10/21/85.)



 



 



SEC. 21.09.  BUSINESS TAX REGISTRATION CERTIFICATES — POSTING AND KEEPING.



 



   (a)   Every person engaged in a business subject to tax under the
provisions of this article and which business is conducted at or from a fixed
place of business shall keep the registration certificate issued therefor
posted in a conspicuous place upon the premises at or from which the business
is conducted.



 



   (b)   Every person engaged in a business subject to tax under the
provisions of this article but not operating from a fixed place of business
shall keep the registration certificate issued therefor upon his person at
all times while engaging in the business for which it is issued.



 



   (c)   Whenever identifying stickers or symbols have been issued for
each vehicle, device, machine, or other piece of equipment included in the
measure of a business tax, or for each coin-operated machine the gross
receipts from which are the measure of the tax, the person to whom such
stickers or symbols have been issued shall keep firmly affixed upon each
vehicle, device, machine, piece of equipment or coin-operated machine the
identifying sticker or symbol which has been issued therefor. Such sticker or
symbol shall not be removed from any vehicle, device, machine, piece of
equipment or coin-operated machine kept in use, during the period for which
the sticker or symbol is issued.



 



   (d)   It shall be a misdemeanor for any person to fail to affix as
required herein any identifying sticker or symbol to the vehicle, device,
machine, piece of equipment, or coin-operated machine for which it has been
issued, or to give away, sell or transfer such identifying sticker or symbol
to another person, or to permit its use by another person.



 



 



SEC. 21.10.  BUSINESS TAX REGISTRATION CERTIFICATES — CHARGE FOR
DUPLICATION.



(Amended by Ord. No. 179,984, Eff. 8/3/08.)



 



   Duplicate registration certificates may be issued by the Director of
Finance to replace any previously issued certificate, which has been lost or
destroyed, upon the filing of an affidavit by the registrant or an authorized
representative attesting to that fact and upon paying to the Director of
Finance a fee of $5.00.



 



 



SEC. 21.11.  BUSINESS TAX REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE —TRANSFER.



 



   No registration certificate shall be transferable except where the
business taxed is transferred, whether by sale or otherwise, to another
person under such circumstances that the real or ultimate ownership of the
business after the transfer is substantially similar to the real or ultimate
ownership existing before the transfer. For the purposes of this section,
stockholders, bond-holders, partners, or other persons holding an interest in
a corporation or other entity herein defined to be a person are regarded as
having the real or ultimate ownership of such corporation or other entity.



 



 



SEC. 21.12.  BUSINESS TAX REGISTRATION CERTIFICATES —SUSPENSION.



   (Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 160,389, Eff. 10/21/85.)



 



   (a)   Whenever any person fails to comply with any provision of this
article pertaining to business tax or Article 1.11 of this chapter pertaining
to payroll expense tax, or any rule or regulation adopted pursuant thereto,
the Director of Finance, upon hearing, after giving such person ten days’
notice in writing specifying the time and place of hearing and requiring him
to show cause why his registration certificate or certificates should not be
suspended, may suspend any one or more of the registration certificates held
by such person. The notice shall be served in the same manner as notices of
assessment are served under Section 21.16 of this article.



 



   (b)   Any person who engages in any business after the registration
certificate issued therefor has been suspended, and before such suspended
certificate has been reinstated, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.



 



 



SEC. 21.13.  NEWLY ESTABLISHED BUSINESSES – COMPUTATION OF BUSINESS TAX.




(Amended by Ord. No. 177,246, Eff. 2/18/06, Oper. 1/1/06.)




 



   (a)   Except in cases where this article prescribes a different
method to compute and pay the business tax for a newly established business,
the business tax shall be obtained and paid in accordance with whichever of
the following applies to the classification of newly established business:



 



   1.   When the annual business tax is measured by any of the
following: gross receipts, gross production costs and gross receipts, gross
cost of the work done, or gross receipts and salaries, wages, fees or other
compensation paid, the applicant for a business tax registration certificate
shall at the time of making application, pay a minimum amount of tax that
will apply for the first year of operation.  This minimum tax cannot be
pro-rated.  At the end of the business tax period, the taxpayer shall file a
written statement as prescribed in Section 21.14 disclosing all the
particulars required for the classification of that business.  At the time
of renewal, the taxpayer shall pay the actual tax owed for the first year of
operation deducting any minimum tax previously paid for that year.  This
additional tax is computed at the current rate specified for the
classification of that particular business.  This tax is then measured and
paid in the manner prescribed in Section 21.14.  In all cases, the business
tax shall be determined and paid in all business tax periods subsequent to
the first business tax periods in the manner prescribed in Section 21.14.



 



   2.   When the annual business tax is measured by any of the
following:  the number of vehicles, machines, devices or articles of
equipment used, the number of persons employed, square foot area, seating
capacity, the scale of fees or other charges collected, the applicant for a
business tax registration certificate shall file with the Director of
Finance, a statement setting forth the applicable factors in use, expected to
be in use, employed, or collected.  The taxpayer is required to pay the
business tax at the time of making the application when the business is
started.  The required application and the tax payment is due as follows: 
when the business tax period is daily, tax is due on or before the close of
business on the day on which the business was started; when the business tax
period is monthly or quarterly, the tax is due on or before the last day of
the month in which the business was started; when the business tax period is
annual, the tax is due on or before the last day of the month following the
month in which the business was started.  After the start of the business,
the factor by which the tax is measured is increased in the first business
tax period, an additional amount of tax becomes due, and this increase shall
be reported and the additional amount of business tax paid in accordance with
the provisions of Section 21.14.  Business taxes in these cases for
subsequent business tax periods shall be paid in accordance with the
provisions of Section 21.14.



 



   3.   (i)   When the provisions of this article impose a flat rate
tax for a business tax period or a fractional part of a period, the applicant
of a business tax registration certificate for a newly established business
shall pay the business tax required at the time the application is made,
without proration for any portion of the business tax period expired at the
time the business started.



 



   (ii)   When the provisions of this article impose a flat rate tax
for a business tax period without the requirement that the full amount of the
tax be paid for the business tax period or any fractional part of the period,
the applicant for a business tax registration certificate for a newly
established business shall, at the time the application is made, pay the
business tax required to be paid prorated for the even monthly portion of the
business tax period, which is unexpired at the time the business is started.



 



   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in the foregoing cases,
application by a newly established business for a business tax registration
certificate and payment of the required business tax shall be made as
follows:  whenever the business tax period is daily, on or before the close
of business on the day on which the business is started; whenever the
business tax period is monthly or quarterly, on or before the last day of the
month in which the business is started; whenever the business tax period is
annual, on or before the last day of the month following the month in which
the business started.  In these cases, the business tax for subsequent
business tax periods shall be paid when due and prior to the delinquency date
provided in Section 21.05.



 



 



SEC. 21.14.  WRITTEN STATEMENTS – WHEN REQUIRED –  COMPUTATION OF THE
TAX.



 



   (a)   Except where a provision of this article specifically provides
a different method for the filing of a statement and payment of the business
tax for a designated classification of business, statements required
hereunder shall be filed and payment of the tax made in the following manner:



 



   1.   Whenever an annual business tax is measured by gross receipts,
gross cost of production and gross receipts, gross cost of the work done, or
gross receipts and salaries, wages, fees or other compensation paid, the
person subject to the business tax shall, before the tax becomes delinquent,
file with the Director of Finance a written statement setting forth whichever
of the following is applicable to the classification of business being
engaged in: The gross receipts of the preceding year; the gross cost of
production and gross receipts of the preceding year; the gross cost of the
work done in the preceding year; or gross receipts and salaries, wages, fees
or other compensation paid in the preceding year; and such person shall pay
at such time the amount of the business tax computed upon the measure of the
tax reported in the statement.



 



   2.   Whenever a quarterly business tax is imposed upon the number of
oil wells operated and the number of barrels of oil produced, the person
subject to the tax shall, before the business tax for each quarter becomes
delinquent, file with the Director of Finance a written statement setting
forth the number of wells in operation and the number of barrels of oil
produced by each well in the preceding calendar quarter and such person shall
pay at such time the amount of the business tax computed upon the measure of
the tax reported in the statement.



 



   3.   Whenever the business tax is measured by the number of
vehicles, machines, devices, tables, articles of equipment used or persons
employed, or whenever the business tax is measured by square foot area,
seating capacity, the scale of fees or other charges collected, the person
subject to the tax shall before the tax becomes delinquent file with the
Director of Finance a written statement setting forth the then applicable
factor or factors that constitute the measure of the tax and shall pay at
such time the amount of the business tax computed thereon. In each case where
the factor by which the tax is measured is increased during the business tax
period and an additional amount of business tax becomes due, the person
subject to the tax shall notify the Director of Finance and pay the
additional tax due in the following manner: When the business tax period is
daily, on the day the increase occurs; when the business tax period is
monthly or quarterly, within 30 days of the date on which the increase
occurred; when the business tax period is annual, on or before the last day
of the month following the month in which the increase occurred.



 



   (b)   The written statements shall be made upon forms prescribed by
the Director of Finance and shall include a declaration substantially as
follows:



 



   “I declare, under penalty of making a false declaration, that I am
authorized to make this statement, and that to the best of my knowledge and
belief it is a true, correct and complete statement made in good faith for
the period stated, in compliance with the provisions of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code.”



 



   (c)   Such statements shall not be conclusive against the City as to
the information set forth therein, nor shall the filing of a statement
preclude the City from collecting by appropriate action any additional tax
that is later determined to be due and payable under the provisions of this
article.



 



   (d)   The Director of Finance and all of his or her deputies shall
have the power and authority to require the person subject to the tax to
provide any other information including a list of subcontractors, vendors and
tenants that will help enforce the business tax.  The operative date of this
[sub]section will be January 1, 2005.  (Added by Ord. No. 177,216, Eff.
2/8/06.)



 



 



SEC. 21.15.  DIRECTOR OF FINANCE – DUTY TO ENFORCE –  POWERS – 
RULES AND REGULATIONS.



 



   (a)   Duty to Enforce.  It shall be the duty of the Director of
Finance, and he is hereby directed, to enforce each and all of the provisions
of this article and Article 1.5, and the Chief of Police shall render such
assistance in the enforcement of this article and Article 1.5 as may from
time to time be required by the Director of Finance.



 



   (b)   Inspection and Examination of Places of Business.  The
Director of Finance in the exercise of the duties imposed upon him, and
acting through his deputies, shall inspect and examine all places of business
in the City to ascertain whether or not the provisions of this article and
Article 1.5 have been complied with.



 



   (c)   Audit and Examination of Records and Equipment.  The Director
of Finance and the City Controller, and deputies of each of them, shall have
the power to audit and examine all books and records, and, where necessary,
all equipment, of any person engaged in business in the City for the purpose
of ascertaining the amount of business tax, sales or use tax, if any,
required to be paid by the provisions hereof, and for the purpose of
verifying the statements, or any item thereof, when filed by any taxpayer
pursuant to the provisions of Secs. 21.13, 21.14 or 21.199, or Article 1.5.
If such person, after written demand by the Director of Finance or City
Controller, or a deputy of either, refuses to make available for audit,
examination or verification such books, records or equipment as the Director
of Finance, City Controller, or deputy of either, requests, the Director of
Finance may, after full consideration of all information within his knowledge
concerning the business and activities of the person so refusing, make an
assessment in the manner provided in Sec. 21.16 of any taxes estimated to be
due.



 



   (d)   Inspection of Registration Certificates, etc.  The Director
of Finance and all of his deputies shall have the power and authority to
enter, free of charge, during business hours, any place of business required
to be registered and taxed by the provisions of this article or Article 1.5,
and to demand exhibition of a business registration certificate and sales or
use tax permit and evidence of amount of tax paid. Any person having any such
business tax registration certificate, or sales or use tax permit, heretofore
issued in his possession or under his control who fails to exhibit the same
as well as evidence of amounts of tax paid on demand shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and subject to the penalty provided for by the provisions of this
Code.



 



   (e)   Extensions of Time for Filing.  The Director of Finance may
upon receipt of the written request of a taxpayer, and for good cause, extend
the time for filing any statement required under the provisions of Section
21.13, 21.14 or 21.199, or Article 1.5 for a period of not to exceed 45 days,
provided that the time for filing the required statement has not already
passed when the request is received.  No penalty for delinquent payment
shall accrue by reason of such extension if 90% or more of the total tax due
is paid prior to the tax becoming delinquent.  If less than 90% of the total
tax due is paid prior to the tax becoming delinquent, a twenty percent (20%)
penalty on any unpaid principal tax balance shall accrue.  Interest shall
accrue during said extension in the manner provided herein.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 176,160, Eff. 9/25/04.)



 



   (f)   Compromise of Claims.  The Director of Finance, subject to
the provisions of the Charter, may compromise a claim for business tax where
the portion of the claim proposed to be released is equal to or less than the
monetary limitations set forth in Section 22.13, as adjusted by the
Controller in accordance with Subsection (e) of that section.  Compromise of
claims in excess of $15,000.00, requires the written approval of the City
Attorney.  The Director of Finance is further authorized to enter into
releases of the approved compromises subject to the approval of the City
Attorney.  (Amended by Ord. No. 179,984, Eff. 8/3/08.)



 



   (g)   Minor Error in Payment.  In the event a discrepancy exists
between the amount of tax paid and the amount of tax due under this Article
or Article 1.6, resulting in the underpayment or overpayment of the tax in an
amount of $30.00 or less, the Director of Finance may accept and record the
underpayment or overpayment without other notification to the taxpayer. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 181,860, Eff. 9/29/11.)



 



   (h)   Rules and Regulations – Apportionment.  The Director of
Finance may make such rules and regulations as are not inconsistent with the
provisions of this article or Article 1.5 as may be necessary or desirable to
aid in the enforcement of the provisions of this article and Article 1.5.
When, by reason of the provisions of the Constitution of the United States or
the Constitution of California, the business tax imposed by this article
cannot be enforced without there being an apportionment according to the
amount of business done in the City of Los Angeles, or in the State of
California, as the case may be, the Director of Finance may make such rules
and regulations for the apportionment of the tax as are necessary or
desirable to overcome the constitutional objections. Such rules and
regulations shall be approved by the City Attorney prior to becoming
effective.



 



   (i)   Deficiency Determinations.  If the Director of Finance is not
satisfied that any statement filed as required under the provisions of this
article or Article 1.5 of Chapter 2 of this Code is correct, or that the
amount of tax is correctly computed, he may compute and determine the amount
to be paid and make a deficiency determination upon the basis of the facts
contained in the statement or upon the basis of any information in his
possession or that may come into his possession. One or more deficiency
determinations of the amount of tax due for a period or periods may be made.
When a person discontinues engaging in a business, a deficiency determination
may be made at any time within three years thereafter as to any liability
arising from engaging in such business whether or not a deficiency
determination is issued prior to the date the tax would otherwise be due.
Whenever a deficiency determination is made, a notice shall be given to the
person concerned in the same manner as notices of assessment are given under
Sec. 21.16.



 



   (j)   Payments, etc., Made by Mail.  Whenever any payment,
statement, report, request or other communication received by the Director of
Finance is received after the time prescribed by this article or Article 1.5
for the receipt thereof, but is in an envelope bearing a postmark showing
that it was mailed prior to the time prescribed in this article or Article
1.5 for the receipt thereof, or whenever the Director of Finance is furnished
substantial proof that the payment, statement, report, or request for other
communication was in fact deposited in the United States mail prior to the
time prescribed for receipt thereof, the Director of Finance may regard such
payment, statement, report, request or other communication as having been
timely received.



 



   (k)   Earthquake Related Extension.  Upon the receipt on or before
August 31, 1994 of the written request of a taxpayer showing that such
taxpayer’s business has been impacted by the earthquake of January 17, 1994
to the extent of preventing the filing of any statement required under the
provisions of Sections 21.13 or 21.14 or Article 1.11 of this Code or the
payment of any tax required in connection therewith for such business prior
to the delinquency date, the Director of Finance shall extend the delinquency
date for filing any such statement and paying any such tax for such business
to September 1, 1994.  No penalty or interest shall accrue prior to
September 1, 1994 by virtue of such extension of the delinquency date.  The
relief provided in this subsection shall be an alternative to the relief
provided in Subsection (e) of this section and not in addition thereto, and
shall be applicable only to annual taxes due in 1994.  (Amended by Ord. No.
169,853, Eff. 7/4/94, Oper. 2/28/94.)



 



   (l)   Requirement of Payments by Electronic Funds Transfer.  All
tax payments in the amount of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) or more shall
be paid via a financial institution's electronic funds transfer.  (Added by
Ord. No. 176,160, Eff. 9/25/04.)



 



   (m)   Credit Card Transaction Fee for On-line Payment.  Every
person who files their renewal online and pays their business tax with a
credit card shall pay a transaction fee in the amount of $3.00.  The purpose
of this fee is to offset a portion of the administrative costs incurred by
the City for those transactions.  (Added by Ord. No. 180,358, Eff. 12/20/08.)



 



   (n)   Public Disclosure of Tax Delinquencies.  (Added by Ord. No.
180,378, Eff. 1/4/09.)



 



   (i)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Director of
the Office of Finance shall make available as a matter of public record each
calendar quarter a list of the largest 250 tax delinquencies in excess of one
hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) under this part.  For purposes of
compiling the list, a "tax delinquency" means an amount owed to the City of
Los Angeles as to which all of the following apply:



 



   (A)   That has been submitted to the Director of Finance for a
finding that the delinquent tax is unpaid and the administrative process has
been completed pursuant to Los Angeles Municipal Code Section 21.16.



 



   (B)   The amount of tax has been delinquent for more than ninety
(90) days.



 



   (C)   For purposes of the list, a tax delinquency does not include
any delinquency that would be uncollectible by operation of law.



 



   (ii)   Each quarterly list shall include all of the following with
respect to each delinquency:



 



   (A)   The name of the person or persons liable for payment of the
tax and the person's or persons' last known business address.



 



   (B)   The amount of tax delinquency as shown on the notice or
notices of the tax delinquency and any applicable interest or penalties, less
any amounts paid.



 



   (C)   The type of tax that is delinquent.



 



   (iii)   Prior to making a tax delinquency a matter of public record
as required by this section, the Director of Finance shall provide a
preliminary written notice to the person or persons liable for the tax by
certified mail, return receipt requested, demanding payment of the amount
owed and informing the person or persons that nonpayment may result in the
tax delinquency being made a matter of public record.  If within 30 days
after issuance of the notice, the person or persons do not remit the amount
due or make arrangements with the Director of Finance for payment of the
amount due, the tax delinquency shall be included on the list.



 



   (iv)   The quarterly list described in subsection (n)(i) shall
include the telephone number and address of the Office of Finance in order to
provide a point of contact if a person believes the placement of his or her
name on the list is in error.



 



   (v)   A person whose delinquency appears on the quarterly list, and
who satisfies that delinquency in whole or in part, may request the Director
of Finance to include in the quarterly list any payments that person made to
satisfy the delinquency.  Upon receipt of that request, the Director of
Finance may include those payments on the list as promptly as feasible.



 



   (o)   Liens for Unpaid Taxes.  (Added by Ord. No. 181,238, Eff.
9/12/10.)



 



   (i)   The amount of any tax, interest and penalty imposed by this
Chapter shall be deemed a debt to the city.  If the tax is not paid when
due, such tax, penalty and interest shall be a lien against the taxpayer's
property for the amount thereof, which lien shall continue until the amount
thereof including all penalties and interest are paid, or until it is
discharged of record.



 



   (ii)   The Director of Finance may record liens against property to
collect unpaid taxes, interest, and penalties upon the exhaustion of the
administrative process to determine the amount of such liabilities under this
Chapter.  Such liens may be recorded against real property used in
connection with activities that generated the tax liability or against
personal property used in connection with activities that generated the tax
liability.  Such liens shall be recorded according to applicable law in the
jurisdiction in which the property is located.



 



   (iii)   Prior to recording a lien for unpaid taxes, interest, and
penalties, the Director of Finance shall provide a report requesting approval
of the lien to the City Council, with the taxpayer's name, amount of tax,
interest, and penalties owed, and the tax periods for which taxes will be
collected.  The report shall be referred by the City Clerk to the full City
Council without referral to any Council Committee, and duly placed upon the
agenda of the City Council.  No request for approval of a lien shall be made
to the City Council unless the City Attorney has determined that a sufficient
basis exists to support the liability and that assets exist to which the
liability could attach.  The Director of Finance shall provide at least 15
days notice of the hearing before the City Council to the taxpayer by mailing
a copy of the report to the address contained in the most recent records of
the Office of Finance.  Notice shall be deemed complete at the time of
deposit in the United States mail.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,111, Eff.
5/29/12.)



 



   (iv)   Upon a majority vote by the City Council to approve the
recordation of lien(s), the Director of Finance or his designee may record in
the proper office a certificate which specifies the amount of tax, interest
and penalties due, the name and last known address of the person liable for
the same, a statement that the Director of Finance has determined the correct
amount to be paid and a legal description of the property owned by the
taxpayer to which the lien applies.  From the time of the recording of the
certificate, the amount required to be paid together with interest and
penalties constitutes a lien upon all property to which the lien can attach
and to property owned by the taxpayer used in connection with activities
subject to taxation under this Chapter.  The lien has the force, effect and
priority of a state tax lien and shall continue for ten (10) years from the
filing of the certificate unless sooner released or otherwise discharged, or
unless a term is otherwise provided by applicable law.



 



 



SEC. 21.16.  ASSESSMENT — ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDY.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 138,968, Eff. 8/9/69.)



 



   (a)   Assessment of taxes.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,857, Eff.
10/4/11.)



 



   (1)   Whenever the Director of Finance determines that any tax is
due or may be due to the City of Los Angeles under the provisions of this
chapter, he or she may at any time make and give notice of an assessment of
such tax; however, the period during which the Director of Finance may make
and give notice of an assessment of tax is limited as follows:



 



   (A)   When a person timely files an application for a business tax
registration certificate or business tax renewal form for a business subject
to tax under Article 1 of Chapter 2 of this Code, the Director of Finance may
make and give notice of an assessment of tax at any time within three years
of the date on which such taxes were due under this Code;



 



   (B)   When a person timely files an application for a business tax
registration certificate or business tax renewal form for a business subject
to tax under Article 1 of Chapter 2 of this Code, the Director of Finance may
make and give notice of an assessment of tax at any time within six years of
the date on which such taxes were due under this Code if there is a
substantial understatement of the amount of tax due on the business tax
registration certificate application or business tax renewal form.  For
purposes of this subsection:



 



   (i)   The "tax due" on the business tax registration certificate
application or business tax renewal form is the amount of tax properly due
from the taxpayer for the period(s) encompassed by the business tax
registration certificate application or business tax renewal form;



 



   (ii)   A "substantial understatement" occurs when a taxpayer fails
to report some of the tax due, and the omitted amount is 25% or more of the
amount of tax reported in the business tax registration certificate
application or business tax renewal form;



 



   (iii)   The filing of an amended business tax registration
certificate application or an amended business tax renewal form does not
reduce the time period in which the Director of Finance may make an
assessment under this subsection;



 



   (iv)   The taxpayer's subjective or objective state of mind is
irrelevant in determining whether a substantial understatement exists;



 



   (C)   When a person files an untimely business tax registration
certificate application or an untimely business tax renewal form for a
business subject to tax under Article 1 of Chapter 2 of this Code, the
Director of Finance may make and give notice of an assessment of tax at any
time within three years of the date on which the untimely business tax
registration certificate application or untimely business tax renewal form
was filed;



 



   (D)   When a person makes a willful attempt in any manner to defeat
or evade a tax imposed under Article 1 of Chapter 2 of this Code, including
the filing of a false business tax registration certificate application or
business tax renewal form or the filing of such a form with the willful
intent to evade a tax, the Director of Finance may make and give notice of an
assessment of tax at any time;



 



   (E)   In all other circumstances, including the collection of any
tax other than those set forth under Article 1 of Chapter 2 of this Code, the
Director of Finance may make and give notice of an assessment at any time
otherwise allowed by law;



 



   (F)   If more than one of these circumstances applies, the Director
of Finance shall have the longest applicable period in which to make and give
notice of an assessment.



 



   (2)   The notice of assessment shall separately set forth the amount
of any tax known by the Director of Finance to be due or estimated by the
Director of Finance, after full consideration of all information within his
or her knowledge concerning the business and activities of the person
assessed, to be due under each applicable section of this chapter and shall
include the amount of any penalties or interest accrued on each amount to the
date of the notice of assessment.



 



   (b)   Service of assessment; right to hearing.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 181,857, Eff. 10/4/11.)  The notice of assessment shall be served upon
the person either by handing it to him personally, or by a deposit of the
notice in the United States mail, postage prepaid thereon, addressed to the
person at the address of the location of the business appearing on the face
of the registration certificate issued to him or to such other address as he
shall register with the Director of Finance for the purpose of receiving
notices provided under this chapter; should the person have no registration
certificate issued to him and should he have no address registered with the
Director of Finance for such purpose, then to such person's last known
address. For the purpose of this section, a service by mail is complete at
the time of deposit in the United States mail. Within 45 days after the date
of service, the person assessed may either apply in writing to the Director
of Finance for a hearing on the assessment or may file a written request that
such hearing be waived. If the person neither requests a hearing upon the
assessment nor requests a waiver of hearing within the prescribed time, the
amount of the assessment shall be final and the amount thereof shall
immediately be due and owing to the City of Los Angeles, but penalties and
interest as provided by this chapter shall continue to accrue until paid.



 



   (c)   Waiver of hearing.  If the person requests that the hearing
be waived, the Director of Finance may either grant such request and notify
the person thereof in writing or may, in his discretion, deny the request and
set the assessment for hearing at the time and in the manner prescribed by
Subsection (d) hereof. If the Director of Finance grants the request for
waiver of hearing, the administrative proceedings prescribed by this section
shall be deemed exhausted and the City shall have the right to bring an
action in any court of competent jurisdiction to collect the amount of the
assessment, plus such penalties and interest as may have accrued thereon as
provided by this chapter.



 



   (d)   Time of hearing; notice.  (Amended by Ord. No. 174,084*, Eff.
8/19/01.)  If the person requests a hearing upon the assessment or if the
Director of Finance denies the person’s request for waiver of hearing, the
Director of Finance shall cause the matter to be set for hearing before an
Assessment Review Officer not later than 90 days after the date of the
application, or, as the case may be, the date of the Director of Finance’s
denial of the waiver of hearing.  A request for hearing shall be accompanied
by a written statement of the basis or bases for the request.  Notice of the
time and place of the hearing shall be mailed by the Director of Finance to
the person assessed not later than 15 days before the date set for hearing
and, if the Director of Finance desires said person to produce specific
records at such hearing, such notice may designate the records requested to
be produced.



 



   (e)   Administrative hearing.  (Amended by Ord. No. 174,084*, Eff.
8/19/01.)  The hearing prescribed by this section shall be before an
Assessment Review Officer.  The Assessment Review Officer shall be appointed
by the Director of Finance and shall be an employee of the Office of
Finance.  At the hearing, the person assessed and the representative of the
Director of Finance, who shall be a person other than the Assessment Review
Officer,  may submit such evidence as they believe to be relevant to their
respective positions.  The Assessment Review Officer may require the
presentation of additional evidence from either the person assessed or the
representative of the Director of Finance, or from both, and may continue the
hearing from time to time for the purpose of allowing the presentation of
additional evidence.



 



   (f)   Decision of Assessment Review Officer.  (Amended by Ord. No.
174,084*, Eff. 8/19/01.)  Upon completion of the hearing, the Assessment
Review Officer may (i) affirm the assessment, (ii) increase the assessment,
or (iii) decrease the assessment, as the evidence may require; but the amount
of the assessment shall not be increased unless the claim for the increase is
asserted on behalf of the City either before or during the hearing.  Written
notice of the decision of the Assessment Review Officer shall be given to the
person assessed in the same form and in the same manner as the notice of
assessment.



 



   (g)   Optional Office of Finance Appeals.  (Amended by Ord. No.
177,019, Eff. 11/14/05.)  The Office of Finance may, at its discretion,
establish one or more advisory bodies, which may be composed of City staff
and members of the public, including members of the business community, to
hear appeals from decisions of the Assessment Review Officer.  If the Office
of Finance does establish one or more boards and the person assessed does not
appeal, he or she shall nevertheless be deemed to have exhausted the
administrative proceedings provided by this section.



 



   (h)   Hearing Before Board of Review.  (Amended by Ord. No.
174,084*, Eff. 8/19/01.)  At the hearing before the Board of Review, the
appellant and the representative of the Director of Finance, who shall be a
person other than a member of the Board of Review, may submit such evidence
and argument as they believe to be relevant to their respective positions. 
The Board of Review may require the presentation of additional evidence or
argument, or both, from either the appellant or the representative of the
Director of Finance, or from both, and may continue the hearing from time to
time for the purpose of allowing the presentation of additional evidence or
argument, or both.



 



   (i)   Determination by Board of Review.  (Amended by Ord. No.
181,858, Eff. 10/4/11.)



 



   (1)   Upon completion of the hearing, the Board of Review may, by
majority vote of its members, affirm or decrease the assessment, as the
evidence may require.  The assessment shall be final and the administrative
review process shall be complete when the Board of Review issues its
determination.  Written notice of the determination of the Board of Review
shall be given to the appellant in the same form and in the same manner as
the notice of assessment.



 



   (2)   The Board of Review shall not affirm an assessment under the
following circumstances:



 



   (A)   The taxpayer has a previous Board of Review determination.  A
"previous Board of Review determination" means an earlier determination by a
Board of Review created under Sec. 21.16 of this Code or a predecessor or
successor ordinance, and refers to the  previous Board of Review
determination that most recently addressed the item that is currently in
dispute;



 



   (B)   The previous Board of Review determination resulted in a
written determination specifically stating that the taxpayer earned revenues
under one or more Gross Receipts Fund Class or Classes (as defined Municipal
Code Secs. 21.41 through 21.49, inclusive, or their predecessors or
successors), after reviewing the results of an audit by the Office of Finance
in which the taxpayer provided full and complete cooperation;



 



   (C)   The assessment that is proposed to be affirmed would result in
higher business tax liabilities than those self-reported by the taxpayer
solely because of one or more changes from the Gross Receipts Fund Class
specifically stated in the previous Board of Review determination or
determinations, and the taxpayer provided full and complete cooperation to
the Office of Finance in the audit resulting in the assessment proposed to be
affirmed;



 



   (D)   The business model and method of operations of the taxpayer
were exactly the same with respect to the previous Board of Review
determination or determinations as before the Board of Review proceeding that
resulted in the assessment that is proposed to be affirmed, and in both
circumstances the taxpayer fully reported its gross receipts; and



 



   (E)   Nothing precluded the Office of Finance from conducting a full
and complete audit of the taxpayer both prior to the previous Board of Review
determination or determinations and with respect to the audit resulting in
the assessment that is proposed to be affirmed.



 



   (3)   When a determination (or determinations) made by a previous
Board of Review with respect to a taxpayer's Gross Receipts Fund Class is
overturned by a subsequent Board of Review determination, the change(s) to
the taxpayer's Gross Receipts Fund Class or Classes shall apply to the first
full tax year beginning after the year in which an assessment is not affirmed
by the Board of Review pursuant to Subsection 21.16(i)(2).



 



   (4)   Should a taxpayer wish to challenge a Board of Review
determination regarding business classification that would otherwise be
negated by operation of Subsection 21.16(i)(2), the taxpayer shall notify the
Board of Review via certified mail that must be postmarked within 15 days
from the date of service of the notice of decision of the Board of Review. 
If the taxpayer provides notice under Subsection 21.16(i)(4), no assessment
shall be negated by operation of Subsection 21.16(i)(2).  The taxpayer may
then proceed under the normal procedures for challenging assessments set
forth in this Code and California Law.  If the taxpayer does not provide
notice under Subsection 21.16(i)(4) that it wishes to challenge a Board of
Review determination that would otherwise not be affirmed by operation of
Subsection 21.16(i)(2), the taxpayer is deemed to have acquiesced to the
determination of the Board of Review and may not further challenge the
determination.



 



   (5)   Nothing in Subsection 21.16(i)(2) shall preclude the Office of
Finance from auditing any taxpayer, regardless of the results of any Board of
Review determination.



 



   (j)   Effect of Delay in Administrative Proceedings. (Added by Ord.
No. 174,084*, Eff. 8/19/01.)  Failure of the Director of Finance to set any
hearing within the time prescribed in this section shall not affect the
validity of any proceedings taken hereunder.



 



   (k)   Effect of Payment of an Assessment.  (Added by Ord. No.
174,084*, Eff. 8/19/01.)  Acceptance of any payment upon an assessment, the
validity of which has not previously been passed upon by the Assessment
Review Officer, shall not preclude the Director of Finance from subsequently
levying another assessment in any case where the original assessment does not
truly reflect the correct tax liability.



 



   *  The provisions of this Ordinance shall become operative with
respect to assessments of tax levied by the Director of Finance under Los
Angeles Municipal Code Section 21.16 on and after January 1, 2002.



 



 



SEC.  21.16.1.  VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE.



   (Added by Ord. No. 181,859, Eff. 10/4/11.)



 



   (a)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Code, the Director
of Finance or her designee is authorized to enter into a Voluntary Disclosure
Agreement (VDA) with any qualifying taxpayer that meets the requirements of
this Section.  Under a VDA, the period during which a delinquency
determination may be made against a qualifying taxpayer with respect to a
Business Tax liability under Article 1 of Chapter II of this Code shall be
limited to five (5) years after the date on which the tax was due.  For the
initial twelve (12) month period beginning with the effective date of this
Section, the period during which a delinquency assessment may be made against
a qualifying taxpayer with respect to a Business Tax liability under Article
1 of Chapter II of this Code shall be limited to three (3) years after the
date on which the tax was due.  For purposes of this section, a "qualifying
taxpayer" is a taxpayer that meets all of the following conditions:



 



   1.   The taxpayer has not previously filed an application for a
business tax registration certificate or business tax renewal form with the
City;



 



   2.   The taxpayer is engaged in business in the City, as defined in
Section 21.00;



 



   3.   The taxpayer voluntarily files an application for a business
tax registration certificate and  business tax renewal form(s) with the City
for all years for which the taxpayer was engaged in business in the City;



 



   4.   The taxpayer has not been previously contacted by the City or
by a City contractor regarding its tax liabilities under Article 1 of Chapter
II of this Code, and is not currently under audit for or otherwise contesting
such liabilities;



 



   5.   The taxpayer fully and completely cooperates with an
investigation of the taxes at issue in the VDA, including providing all books
and records to the Office of Finance;



 



   6.   As reasonably determined by the Director of Finance or her
designee, the taxpayer's failure to file a timely application for a business
tax registration certificate or business tax renewal form or to pay the taxes
owed was due to reasonable cause and was not a result of intentional
disregard of the law or because of fraud or an intent to evade the provisions
of this Code; and



 



   7.   The VDA contains such terms and conditions as are otherwise
necessary to effectuate the VDA program.



 



   (b)   If the Director of Finance or her designee finds that the
taxpayer's failure to timely file an application for a business tax
registration certificate or business tax renewal form or to pay the taxes
owed is due to reasonable cause or circumstances beyond the taxpayer's
control, and occurred notwithstanding the exercise of ordinary care and the
absence of willful neglect, the taxpayer shall be relieved of the penalties,
but not the interest, imposed by Section 21.05 on taxes due.  Any taxpayer
seeking relief of penalty shall file a statement under penalty of perjury
setting forth the facts upon which the taxpayer bases the claim for relief.



 



   (c)   Any VDA entered into by the Director of Finance or her
designee under this ordinance shall be null and void and the Office of
Finance may assess all taxes compromised by the VDA if:



 



   1.   A taxpayer misrepresents material facts provided to the Office
of Finance with respect to the VDA; or



 



   2.   A taxpayer defaults on an installment payment plan for the
taxes at issue under the VDA.



 



 



SEC. 21.17.  CONFIDENTIAL CHARACTER OF INFORMATION OBTAINED  – DISCLOSURE
UNLAWFUL.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 180,380, Eff. 1/5/09.)



 



   (a)   It shall be unlawful for the Director of Finance or any person
having an administrative duty under the provisions of this Article or Article
1.6 to make known in any manner whatever the business affairs and operations
of, or the nature, amount or source of income, profits, losses, expenditures,
net worth, or any particular thereof, or any other information set forth in
any statement or return or obtained by an investigation of records and
equipment of, any person required to obtain a business tax registration
certificate or sales or use tax permit, or pay business, sales or use tax or
any other person visited or examined in the discharge of official duty, or to
permit any statement or return, or copy of either, or any book containing any
abstract or particulars thereof to be seen or examined by any person.



 



   (b)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent:



 



   1.   the disclosure of information to, or the examination of records
and equipment by, another City official or employee or a member of the Board
of Review for the sole purpose of administering or enforcing any provision of
this article or Article 1.6;



 



   2.   the disclosure of information to, or the examination of records
by federal or state officials, or the tax officials of another city or
county, or city and county, if a reciprocal arrangement exists; or to a grand
jury;



 



   3.   the disclosure of information and results of examination of
records of a particular taxpayer, or relating to a particular taxpayer, with
respect to any proceeding in a court of law or before an administrative body
in which the existence or amount of any business, sales or use tax liability
of the particular taxpayer to the City of Los Angeles is relevant and
material and the particular taxpayer is a party to the proceeding, including
but not limited to proceedings before any Board or Commission as set forth in
Municipal Code section 22.02;



 



   4.   the disclosure after the filing of a written request to that
effect, to the taxpayer himself, or to his successors, receivers, trustees,
executors, administrators, assignees and guarantors, if directly interested,
of information as to the items included in the measure of any paid tax, any
unpaid tax or amounts of tax required to be collected, interest and
penalties; further provided, however, that the City Attorney approves each
such disclosure and that the Director of Finance may refuse to make any
disclosure referred to in this paragraph when in his opinion the public
interest would suffer thereby;



 



   5.   the disclosure of the names and addresses of persons to whom
registration certificates or sales tax and use tax permits have been issued;



 



   6.   the disclosure of such information as may be necessary to the
City Council in order to permit it to be fully advised as to the facts when a
taxpayer files a claim for refund of business, sales or use taxes, or submits
an offer of compromise with regard to a claim for refund of business, sales
or use taxes, or submits an offer of compromise with regard to a claim
asserted against him by the City for business, sales or use taxes, or where
the existence or amount of business, sales, or use taxes are otherwise
relevant to the determination of a matter required to be submitted to the
City Council under the City of Los Angeles Charter, the Los Angeles Municipal
Code, or the Los Angeles Administrative Code;



 



   7.   the disclosure of information to, or the examination of records
by, contractors or employees of contractors with whom the City of Los Angeles
has contracted to assist the City of Los Angeles for the sole purpose of
administering or enforcing any provision of this Article or Article 1.6, if
the contract requires the persons granted access to such information or
records to abide by the confidentiality requirements of this Section, and if
the City Council has approved the award and execution of such contract;



 



   8.   the disclosure of information to, or the examination of records
by, purchasers of accounts receivable pursuant to Los Angeles Administrative
Code section 5.186, or the disclosure to any employees of such purchasers of
accounts receivable, if the purchase agreement requires the persons granted
access to such information or records to abide by the confidentiality
requirements of this Section;



 



   9.   the disclosure of the identity of any particular taxpayer with
delinquent business, sales, or use taxes and the type and amount of the
delinquent business, sales, or use tax liability of that taxpayer, and the
publication of such information at the discretion of the Office of Finance
pursuant to Los Angeles Municipal Code section 21.15(m);



 



   10.   the disclosure of information when compelled by an order of
court or other judicial process; and



 



   11.   the disclosure of statistical or cumulative information when
the disclosure does not identify any particular taxpayer or reveal
information in a manner that could identify a particular taxpayer.



 



 



SEC. 21.18.  DELINQUENT TAXES – INSTALLMENT PAYMENT.



 



   (a)   No registration certificate shall be issued, nor shall a
suspended certificate be reinstated, to any person who, at the time of
applying therefor, is indebted to the City of Los Angeles for any delinquent
business, sales or use taxes, unless such person, with the consent of the
Director of Finance, enters into an agreement with the City of Los Angeles,
through the Director of Finance, to pay such delinquent taxes in monthly
installments, or oftener, extending over a period of not to exceed one year.
(Amended by Ord. No. 160,389, Eff. 10/21/85.)



 



   (b)   Persons indebted to the City of Los Angeles for delinquent
business, sales or use taxes may, with the consent of the Director of Finance
enter into an agreement with the City of Los Angeles, through the Director of
Finance, to pay such delinquent taxes in monthly installments, or oftener,
extending over a period of not to exceed one year.



 



   (c)   In any agreement so entered into, the person shall acknowledge
the obligation owed to the City and agree that in the event of failure to
make timely payment of any installment, the whole amount unpaid, together
with accrued interest, shall become immediately due and payable; and that in
the event legal action is brought by the City to enforce collection of any
amount included in the agreement, the person will pay all costs of suit
incurred by the City of Los Angeles, including a reasonable attorney’s fee.
The execution of such a contract shall not prevent the accrual of interest on
unpaid balances at the rate provided in Sec. 21.05. No penalties shall accrue
on account of delinquency for taxes owed during the period covered by the
contract after the execution of the contract and the payment of the first
installment.



 



 



SEC. 21.19.  DELINQUENT TAXES – SUIT FOR RECOVERY.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 180,358, Eff. 12/20/08.)



 



   (a)   Any tax required to be paid under the provisions of this
article, shall be deemed a debt owed to the City.  Any person engaging in a
business required to obtain a registration certificate and pay a business tax
who fails to obtain such certificate shall be liable from the date they
became subject to the tax, but in no event shall such person be liable for a
period greater than eight (8) years.  Any person owing any tax under the
provision of this article shall be liable in an action brought in the name of
the City of Los Angeles in any court of competent jurisdiction for recovery
of any such amount.



 



   (b)   An action to collect the business tax and any related penalty
and interest must be commenced within three years of the date the business
tax becomes delinquent.  The statute of limitations on an action by the City
to collect unpaid taxes is tolled while the City is unaware of the existence
or ongoing activities of a business due to the taxpayer's failure to obtain a
registration certificate and pay a business tax.  The statute of limitations
is also tolled while an administrative appeal is pending.



 



 



SEC. 21.20.  DELINQUENT TAXES – DEBT NOT DISCHARGED BY PENAL CONVICTION.



 



   The conviction of any person for engaging in business without obtaining
a registration certificate, or for failure to pay any tax due under or
otherwise comply with the provisions of this article or Article 1.5, shall
not relieve the person from the obligation to pay any taxes that he may owe
the City, nor shall the payment of any taxes owed prevent a prosecution under
appropriate provisions of the Municipal Code for any violation of the
provisions of this article or Article 1.5. The remedies provided in this Code
are cumulative. The use of one or more of the remedies prescribed in this
article shall not bar the use of any other remedy provided for the
enforcement of the provisions of this article or Article 1.5.



 



 



SEC. 21.21.  DELINQUENT TAXES – UNCOLLECTIBLE.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 141,263, Eff. 12/21/70.)



 



   If the Director of Finance finds that any amount of tax due or believed
to be due under the provisions of this article or Article 1.5 cannot be
collected, or that efforts to collect any such amount would be
disproportionately costly with relation to the probable outcome of the
collecting efforts, he may prepare a report setting forth his finding and the
reasons therefor, and submit it to a Board of Review constituted as provided
in Sec. 21.16 of this Code. Upon unanimous approval of a finding by the Board
of Review, the Director of Finance may remove from his active accounts
receivable any unpaid tax owing or believed to be owing. If the Board of
Review does not unanimously approve the finding, the matter shall be returned
to the Director of Finance. The removal from the active accounts receivable
of the Director of Finance of any unpaid tax as provided herein shall not
preclude the City from collecting or attempting to collect any such tax that
later proves to be collectible.



 



 



SEC. 21.22.  RELIGIOUS, CHARITY, ETC.; PROCEDURE FOR ISSUANCE OF TAX EXEMPT
REGISTRATION CERTIFICATES.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 149,522, Eff. 5/23/77.)



 



   (a)   The provisions of this article shall not be construed to
require the payment of any business tax to operate or carry on the functions
of any charitable or religious institution, organization or association
organized for charitable or religious purposes and conducted solely for such
purposes, nor the payment of any business tax to engage in teaching,
preaching or otherwise disseminating any religious tenets or the beliefs of
any religion; nor shall any business tax be required to be paid by any
religious or other charitable association, including fraternal, educational,
civic, military, state, county and municipal organizations and associations,
for the conducting or staging of any theatrical, art, or sporting exhibition
or similar event, or any dance, concert, or lecture, when the net proceeds
derived from any of the same are not used for the purpose of private gain to
any individual but are used wholly for the benefit of such organization or
for charitable or benevolent purposes, nor shall a business tax be required
to be paid by any credit union corporation. Such persons are entitled to
receive tax exempt registration certificates upon application for and
qualification as provided in this section.



 



   (b)   An independent contractor who for profit or gain undertakes to
carry on any business or activity, for the conduct or operation of which a
registration certificate and business tax is required by any section of this
article, shall not be exempted from the registration and tax requirements of
this Article because of the fact that he has paid or agreed to pay or turn
over to any charitable institution or organization a portion of the receipts
of the business or activity as a reward or recompense for the sponsorship of
the business or activity, or for any other reason, and such a contractor
shall not be deemed to be acting for purposes entitling him to a tax exempt
registration certificate.



 




   (c)   1.   The Director of Finance shall, upon application, issue
a tax exempt registration certificate to any credit union corporation upon
being furnished with satisfactory evidence of its incorporation and operation
as such.




 



   2.   Any applicant for a tax exempt registration certificate
authorized in Subsection (a), other than a credit union corporation, shall
make an application upon a form furnished by the Director of Finance. The
application shall be forwarded to the Board of Police Commissioners which
shall make or cause to be made such investigation of the applicant and the
activity carried on or proposed to be carried on as may be necessary to
determine whether or not the applicant and the activity for which a tax
exempt registration certificate is applied for meet the requirements of
Subsection (a) hereof, and that the proceeds of the activity, if any, are to
be used for the purposes mentioned therein. The Board of Police Commissioners
shall endorse its finding upon the application and return the same to the
Director of Finance. If the finding is to the effect that the requirements of
Subsection (a) are met, the Director of Finance shall then issue a tax exempt
registration certificate provided the applicant has complied with all other
applicable provisions of this Code; provided further, however, that when the
activity to be engaged in is of the kind for which the applicant must file a
Notice of Intention as provided in Article 4 of Chapter 4 of this Code, no
tax exempt registration certificate shall be issued until such Notice of
Intention has been filed and an Information Card issued to the applicant as
provided in said Article 4. The registration certificate so issued shall show
on its face that it is tax exempt. If the finding of the Board of Police
Commissioners is that the requirements of Subsection (a) hereof are not met,
no registration certificate shall be issued without payment of the tax
prescribed in the appropriate section of this article. (Amended by Ord. No.
173,283, Eff. 6/26/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)



 



   (d)   If at any time any activity listed in Subsection (a) as being
entitled to the issuance of a tax exempt registration certificate is
conducted in such a manner that, had it been disclosed in the application
described in Subsection (c), would not have entitled the person carrying on
the activity to a tax exempt registration certificate, or if the net proceeds
derived from those activities named in Subsection (a) are not used for a
purpose approved therein, any tax exempt registration certificate therefore
issued shall be void and the full amount of the tax shall be due and payable.



 



   (e)   Subject to the provisions of Subsection (d) hereof, upon the
Director of Finance’s issuance of a tax exempt registration certificate to
a person, any tax, including any penalty or interest accrued thereon, owing
by such person pursuant to any provision of this article for any period prior
to such issuance by virtue of carrying on any activity described in
Subsection (a) hereof in the manner prescribed therein which would have
entitled such person to receive a tax exempt registration certificate shall
be canceled as if it had never become due or owing, and, if paid, a refund
thereof shall be made, subject to the provisions of Section 21.07 of this
Code, as if it had been overpaid. (Added by Ord. No. 149,522, Eff. 5/23/77.)



 



 



SEC. 21.23.  EFFECT OF REPEALS AND AMENDMENTS.



 



   Except where a repealing or amendatory ordinance specifically provides
otherwise, the amendment or repeal of any portion of Article 1 or Article 1.5
shall not be construed to operate as a release or waiver of any liability or
sum of money which may be due or owing to the City of Los Angeles from any
person under the provisions of said articles as they existed prior to such
amendment or repeal. The rule of construction required by this section is
declared to be in clarification and confirmation of the existing intent of
said articles, and is not to be construed as applying solely to the effect of
repealing or amendatory ordinances adopted subsequent to the effective date
of this section.



 



 



SEC. 21.24.  EXEMPTION FOR PERSONS HAVING EQUAL OR GREATER PAYROLL EXPENSE
TAX LIABILITY.



   (Repealed by Ord. No. 174, 272, Eff. 11/26/01.)



 



 



SEC. 21.25.  RELIEF FOR EARTHQUAKE INTERRUPTION.



   (Added by Ord. No. 169,977, Eff. 9/3/94.)



 



   (a)   Any taxpayer whose business at any location was interrupted
for a period of not less than sixty (60) consecutive days as a result of the
earthquake of January 17, 1994, upon written application and proof of such
interruption to the reasonable satisfaction of the Director of Finance, shall
be deemed to have terminated said business at said location on December 31,
1993.



 



   (b)   Upon resumption of any business described in Subsection (a) of
this section, if the business tax is an annual tax measured by gross
receipts, gross production costs and gross receipts, gross cost of the work
done, or gross receipts and salaries, wages, fees or other compensation paid,
said business shall be deemed to be a newly established business subject to
taxation in accordance with the provisions of Section 21.13(a)1 of this
article, except that the measure of any additional tax for 1994 shall not
commence prior to the date of resumption of said business.



 



   (c)   Upon resumption of any business described in Subsection (a) of
this section, if the business tax is a flat rate for a year or a fractional
part thereof, said tax shall be computed by multiplying the flat rate by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days from the resumption of
the business through December 31 and the denominator of which is 365.



 



 



SEC. 21.26.  EMPOWERMENT ZONE - CITY BUSINESS TAX REDUCTIONS, LIMITATIONS,
AND EXEMPTIONS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 172,358, Eff. 1/31/99.)



 



   (a)   Minimum Business Tax.  After payment of a minimum business
tax of $25.00, the amount of business tax relief to a person engaged in
business at a location in the business tax economic incentive area described
in Subsection (j) but not excluded from such tax relief by Subsection (h)
shall be an exemption from the next $500.00 in business tax liability.



 



   (b)   Time Period of Business Tax Relief.  The business tax relief
described in Subsection (a) of this section shall be for the tax period
beginning on or after January 1, 1995 and ending on or before the termination
of the City’s Empowerment Zone as established by the City Council by
ordinance.  The time period for business tax relief for census tracts that
are added to the City’s business tax economic incentive area will commence
on the effective date of the Ordinance adding the census tracts and cover the
entire calendar year.



 



   A person will only be entitled to the additional business tax relief
provided for in Subsections (c), (d), (e), and (f) for up to a maximum period
of five years.



 



   (c)   Additional Business Tax Relief for Existing Businesses Within
the Business Tax Economic Incentive Area.  Notwithstanding any other
provision of this Code, for the tax years beginning on January 1, 1999 the
annual business taxes paid starting in 1999 by any person for a business
located within the business tax economic incentive area described in
Subsection (j) on or after January 1, 1998, shall not exceed the business
taxes paid by such person for the year ended December 31, 1998.  Such
additional relief shall be for a period of up to five years, as set forth in
Subsection (b) above.



 



   (d)   Business Tax Relief for Existing Businesses Within the City
Relocating into the Business Tax Economic Incentive Area.  Notwithstanding
any other provision of this Code, the annual business taxes paid during any
taxable year by any person for a business (1) located within the City of Los
Angeles but outside the business tax economic incentive area on or before
December 31, 1998 and (2) which relocates its business activity within the
business tax economic incentive area on or after January 1, 1999, shall not
exceed the annual business taxes paid by such person during the tax year
during which the business relocated into the business tax economic incentive
area, subject to the relief provided in Subsection (a) above.  Such
additional relief shall be for a period of up to five years as set forth in
Subsection (b) above.



 



   (e)   Business Tax Relief for Existing Businesses Outside the City
Relocating Into the Business Tax Economic Incentive Area.  Any person whose
business was located outside the City of Los Angeles as of December 31, 1997
and which locates its business activity within the business tax economic
incentive area on or after January 1, 1998, shall pay no business taxes other
than the $25 minimum tax specified in Subsection (a) above for up to a
five-year period as set forth in Subsection (b) above.



 



   (f)   Business Tax Relief for Newly Established Businesses Within
the Business Tax Economic Incentive Area.  Any person who starts a “newly
established business” as defined in Section 21.00 (c) of this Code within
the business tax economic incentive area on or after January 1, 1998 shall
pay no business taxes other than the $25 minimum business tax specified in
Subsection (a) above for up to a five-year period as set forth in Subsection
(b) above.



 



   (g)   Change of Ownership of Existing Businesses.  New proprietors
of pre-existing businesses located within the business tax economic incentive
area shall not be eligible to receive the incentives set forth in Subsection
(e) and (f) above.



 



   (h)   Excluded Businesses.  The business tax relief described in
Subsections (a) through (f) of this section is available to all business tax
classifications located within the business tax economic incentive area
except that no business tax exemption, waiver, decrease or freeze shall be
available to any person whose primary activity at a location is the sale of
alcoholic beverages for off-premises consumption or the sale of guns and
ammunition, or which is an  “adult entertainment business” as defined in
the Los Angeles Municipal Code Section 12.70B.



 



   (i)   Conditions to Receive Tax Exemption.  The Director of Finance
shall determine that one of the following conditions applies to each person
seeking business tax relief under Subsections (e) and (f) above unless
application of said conditions is waived by the Mayor’s Office.



 



   (1)   The business pays all of its work force at a rate at least
equal to the living wage as identified in the City’s Living Wage Ordinance
in Los Angeles Administrative Code Section 10.37.



 



   (2)   The business provides goods or services that are urgently
needed in the business tax economic incentive area.



 



   (3)   The business can show proof of a significant investment in its
workforce (For example: job training, childcare, retirement or investment
programs; health or life insurance programs).



 



   (4)   A newly established business in the business tax economic
incentive area hires at least 50% of its workforce locally from the business
tax economic incentive area, or the buffer zone.



 



   The Mayor’s Office shall provide annual reports to the Community and
Economic Development Committee of the Council of waivers granted and the
justification for those waivers.



 



   (j)   Description of Business Tax Economic Incentive Area. The
business tax economic incentive area shall lie within the boundaries of the
federal Empowerment Zone except that the business license tax economic
incentive area shall extend beyond the boundaries of the Empowerment Zone to
include both sides of a street in which there is business activity where only
one side of that street is included in the Empowerment Zone.



 



   (1)   The business tax economic incentive area consists of the area
included within the following United States Census Tract numbers, as extended
by this subsection where applicable:



 




1041.020, 1047.010, 2045.000, 2051.000, 2060.000, 2062.000, 2063.000,
2073.000, 2260.000, 2270.000, 2281.000, 2282.000, 2286.000, 2287.000,
2288.000, 2289.000, 2291.000, 2371.000, 2372.000, 2383,000, 2392.000.
2393.000, 2397.000, 2400.000, 2402.000, 2405.000, 2408.000, 2409.000,
2420.000, 2421.000, 2422.000, 2423.000, 2426.000, 2427.000, 2430.000, 2431.000




 



   (2)   The map set forth below illustrates the location of the United
States Census Tracts listed in Paragraph (1) of this subsection that comprise
the business tax economic incentive area.  The boundaries of said business
tax economic incentive area are extended as set forth in this subsection
where applicable.



 




LOCATION OF UNITED STATES CENSUS TRACTS THAT COMPRISE BUSINESS TAX ECONOMIC
INCENTIVE AREA





(NOT ALL TRACTS PICTURED ARE LOCATED IN BUSINESS TAX ECONOMIC INCENTIVE AREA
- SEE LAMC SEC. 21.26(j)(1))




 



[Editor’s Note:  The map referred to in this section is on file in the
official City documents located in the Office of the City Clerk in Council
File No. CF-97-0401-S1.]



 



   (3)   The business tax economic incentive area is described in the
table set forth below.  The boundaries of said area are extended as set
forth in this subsection where applicable.



 



BUSINESS TAX ECONOMIC INCENTIVE AREA FOR THE CITY OF LOS ANGELES



 



   The table describes both part A and part B in a continuous loop.  The
loop starts southward by describing part A’s western half and going down to
the Slauson and South Central Avenue intersection where part B begins.  At
the intersection the loop travels in a westwardly direction around part B. 
Eventually the loop travels back North to describe part A’s eastern half.



 




SECTION ONE





FIRST HALF OF PART A





INTERSECTION OF N. BROADWAY AND THE LOS ANGELES RIVER




 



 




BEGINNING POINT

 

DIRECTION

 

ENDING LIMIT




N. Broadway

 

Southwest to

 

College Street




College Street

 

East to

 

N. Alameda




N. Alameda

 

South to

 

Temple Street




Temple Street

 

West to

 

San Pedro




San Pedro

 

South to

 

E. 1st




E. 1st

 

West to

 

Los Angeles Street




Los Angeles Street

 

South to

 

2nd Street




2nd Street

 

West to

 

S. Hill




S. Hill

 

South to

 

9th Street




9th Street

 

East to

 

Maple Ave.




Maple Ave.

 

South to

 

E. 21st Street




E. 21st Street

 

East to

 

Central Ave.




Central Ave.

 

South to

 

42nd Street




42nd Street

 

West to

 

Avalon




Avalon

 

South to

 

E. 48th Street




E. 48th Street

 

East to

 

McKinley Ave.




McKinley Ave.

 

North to



& back up

 

E. 48th Street




E. 48th Street

 

East to

 

Central Ave.




Central Ave.

 

South to

 

Slauson Ave.





 



 




BEGINNING OF PART B OF SECTION ONE





INTERSECTION OF CENTRAL AVE. & SLAUSON AVE.




 



 


BEGINNING POINT

 

DIRECTION

 

ENDING LIMIT




Slauson Ave.

 

West to

 

Van Ness Ave.




Van Ness Ave.

 

South to

 

62nd Street




62nd Street

 

East to

 

S. Broadway Ave.




S. Broadway

 

South to

 

Florence Ave.




Florence Ave.

 

East to

 

S. Central Ave.




S. Central Ave.

 

North to X-section

 

Slauson Ave.




 



 




SECOND HALF OF PART A SECTION ONE





INTERSECTION OF S. CENTRAL & SLAUSON




 



 




BEGINNING POINT

 

DIRECTION

 

ENDING LIMIT




Slauson Ave.

 

East to

 

S. Alameda




S. Alameda

 

North to

 

E. 25th Street




E. 25th Street

 

East to & following

 

Southern City Limits With Vernon




Southern City Limits with Vernon

 

Follow to

 

Spence Street




Spence Street

 

North to

 

E. 8th Street




E. 8th Street

 

Northwest to

 

Soto Street




Soto Street

 

North to

 

Santa Monica FWY.




Santa Monica FWY.

 

West to

 

S. Boyle Ave.




S. Boyle Ave.

 

North to

 

Golden State FWY.




Golden State FWY.

 

North to

 

E. 4th Street




E. 4th Street

 

West to

 

N. State Street




N. State Street

 

North to

 

E. 1st Street




E. 1st Street

 

West to

 

Los Angeles River




Los Angeles River

 

North to

 

N. Broadway





 



 




END OF SECTION ONE (PARTS A&B)




 



 




SECTION TWO





INTERSECTION OF S. CENTRAL AVE. & E. MANCHESTER




 



 




BEGINNING POINT

 

DIRECTION

 

ENDING LIMIT




E. Manchester

 

West to

 

San Pedro Street




San Pedro Street

 

North to

 

E. 79th Street




E. 79th Street

 

West to

 

S. Vermont Ave.




S. Vermont Ave.

 

South to

 

Manchester Ave.




Manchester Ave.

 

East to

 

Figueroa




Figueroa

 

South to

 

104th Street




104th Street

 

East to

 

Wall Street




Wall Street

 

North to

 

93rd Street




93rd Street

 

East to

 

E. City Limits with Walnut Park




E. City Limits with Walnut Park

 

North to

 

Intersection of Manchester & S. Central Avenues





 



 




END OF SECTION TWO




 



 




SECTION THREE





INTERSECTION OF 104TH & SAN PEDRO STREET




 



 




BEGINNING POINT

 

DIRECTION

 

ENDING LIMIT




San Pedro St.

 

South to

 

Imperial Hwy




Imperial Hwy

 

East to

 

Wadsworth & E. 114th




114th St.

 

East to

 

S. Central Ave




S. Central Ave

 

South to

 

Imperial Hwy




Imperial Hwy.

 

East to

 

E. City/County Limits at Mona Blvd.




E. City/County Limits at Mona Blvd.

 

North to

 

92nd Street




92nd Street

 

West to

 

Maine St.




Maine St.

 

North

 

E. 91st Street




E. 91st Street

 

West to

 

Compton




Compton

 

South to

 

E. 92nd Street




E. 92nd Street

 

West to

 

Success Street




Success Street

 

South to

 

E. 103rd Street




E. 103rd Street

 

West to

 

S. Central Ave




S. Central Ave

 

South to

 

E. 104th Street




E. 104th Street

 

West to X-section

 

San Pedro





 




END OF SECTION THREE




 



 




SECTION FOUR





INTERSECTION OF THE VAN NUYS BLVD. & THE FOOTHILL FWY.




 



 




BEGINNING POINT

 

DIRECTION

 

ENDING LIMIT




Van Nuys Blvd.

 

Southwest to

 

San Fernando Rd.




San Fernando Rd.

 

Southeast to

 

Pierce Street




Pierce Street

 

Northeast to

 

Glenoaks Blvd.




Glenoaks Blvd.

 

Southeast to

 

Osborne Street




Osborne Street

 

North to

 

West side of the Hansen Dam




West side of the Hansen Dam

 

Follow East to the

 

Rancho Tujunga Rancho Ex Mission DE San Fernando line




Rancho Tujunga Rancho Ex Mission DE San Fernando line

 

North to

 

Foothill FWY.




Foothill FWY.   

 

West to X-section

 

Van Nuys Blvd.





 




END OF SECTION FOUR




 



   (k)   Administration.  The business tax economic incentive program
shall be administered by the Director of Finance who shall notify all known
persons engaged in business at a location in the business tax economic
incentive area of the program.



 



   (l)   Business Tax Forms. It shall be the responsibility of each
person engaged in business to compare its activity to the tax relief provided
by this section and complete its business tax forms accordingly.



 



   (m)   Annual Report to the Mayor and Council by Director of the
Office of Administrative and Research Services.  The Director of the Office
of Administrative and Research Services shall report annually on the
measurable costs and benefits of the Business Tax Economic Incentive
program.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,304, Eff. 6/30/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)



 



 



SEC. 21.27.  ENTERTAINMENT AND MULTIMEDIA BUSINESS TAX LIMITATIONS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 170,798, Eff. 1/21/96, Oper. 1/1/96.)



 



   (a)   For every person engaged in an entertainment or multimedia
business, which business is located in either the Hollywood Redevelopment
Area or the North Hollywood Redevelopment Area, the total tax due under
Sections 21.79, 21.109, 21.166, 21.167, 21.189.2, 21.189.4, 21.190 and 21.192
of this article at each such business shall not exceed $25,000.00 plus 10
percent of the amount of tax in excess of $25,000.00 that would otherwise be
due.  (Amended by Ord. No. 171,521, Eff. 3/27/97, Oper. 1/1/97.)



 



   (b)   The “Hollywood Redevelopment Area” is the area established
by Ordinance No. 161,202 of the City of Los Angeles, adopted on May 7,
1986.  The “North Hollywood Redevelopment Area” is the area established
by Ordinance No. 152,030 of the City of Los Angeles, adopted on February 21,
1979.



 



   (c)   For the purposes of this section, the following definitions
shall apply:



 



   1.   An “Entertainment Business” shall mean a business which has
as its primary purpose the development, production, post-production,
distribution, licensing, or marketing of motion pictures, television
programming, video or audio recordings, video graphic images, and/or
animation.



 



   2.   (Amended by Ord. No. 171,521, Eff. 3/27/97, Oper. 1/1/97.)  A
“Multimedia Business” shall mean a business that primarily:



 



   i.   Produces films, disks, tapes, software or other recording
devices, whether visual or audio, through the integration of two or more
media, which media include, without limitation, computer generated graphics
and video, film, slides, video tapes, audio tapes and photographs;



 



   ii.   Provides computer programming services on a contract or fee
basis to the producer of films, disks, tapes, software or other recording
devices, whether visual or audio, through the integration of two or more
media, which media include, without limitation, computer generated graphics
and video, film, slides, video tapes, audio tapes and photographs, such
services to include computer software design and analysis, modification of
custom software, digital imaging and other related programming services; and



 



   iii.  Develops online and internet services, including the design of
WEB sites, for clients.



 



   (d)   The terms “entertainment business” and “multimedia
business,”  as used in this section, shall not include any “adult
entertainment business,” as defined in Section 12.70 B. of this Code.



 



   (e)   The provisions of this section shall apply only to businesses
that generate more than 50% of their gross receipts from entertainment and/or
multimedia business activities.



 



   (f)   The provisions of this section shall not become operative
prior to January 1, 1997, except that they shall become operative upon the
commencement of operations for businesses which commence operations in the
Hollywood Redevelopment Area or the North Hollywood Redevelopment Area on or
after January 1, 1996.



 



   (g)   If either the Hollywood Redevelopment Area or the North
Hollywood Redevelopment Area, or both, shall become dissolved, the provisions
of this section shall not apply thereafter to businesses located within what
had been the boundaries of the dissolved area.



 



 



SEC. 21.28.  FISCAL YEAR REPORTING.



   (Repealed by Ord. No. 176,326, Eff. 1/16/05, Oper. 1/1/05.)



 



 



SEC. 21.29.  SMALL BUSINESS EXEMPTION.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 176,342, Eff. 1/19/05, Oper. 7/1/05.)



 



   (a)   Small Business.  No tax is required to be paid under this
Article by any Small Business.  A Small Business shall mean any person whose
total taxable and nontaxable gross receipts from within and without the City
do not exceed $50,000.00.  The $50,000.00 amount shall be increased to
$100,000.00 on July 1, 2006.



 



   (b)   Creative Artist.  No tax is required to be paid by a person
under this Article for gross receipts attributable to "Creative Activities",
earned when that person is engaged in business as a "Creative Artist", unless
the total taxable and nontaxable gross receipts from within and without the
City which are attributable to "Creative Activities" exceed $300,000.00
annually.



 



   For purposes of this exemption, a "Creative Artist" shall mean only a
person who operates either (1) as an individual, (2) through a corporation
with one individual as the only shareholder and the only employee (commonly
referred to as a "loan-out"), or (3) through a limited liability company with
one individual as the only member and the only employee. "Creative
Activities" shall mean activities described herein.  Gross receipts from
Creative Activities shall not include any gross receipts received by a
Creative Artist from activities that are not Creative Activities (for
example, public appearances or product endorsements, or teaching as opposed
to performing).  Such other receipts shall not be exempt under this
subsection, and shall be taxable as otherwise provided in this Article.  In
implementing the intent of this subsection, the Director of Finance shall
consider that Creative Activities are distinct from a craft, and that this
exemption applies to Creative Artists for their Creative Activities but not
to craft persons.  References to "multi-media" are to be interpreted as
defined in subsection (b) of Section 21.189.4.



 



   Eligibility for the small business exemption provided in subsection
(a), above, shall be based on total taxable and non-taxable gross receipts
from within and without the City, including receipts for Creative Activities.



 



   Creative Activities shall mean activities performed by Creative Artists
primarily for entertainment and/or aesthetic purposes, including assistants
or professional trainees performing those same Creative Activities, in the
following professions:



 



   1.   The following professions to the extent they are directly
involved with motion picture, radio or television productions, commercials,
multi-media or recorded or live music or theater:



 




- Actor or announcer; or











- Art director, costume designer, production designer, scenery or set
designer; or











- Choreographer; or











- Cinematographer; or











- Conductor of bands, chorales, orchestras, and other musical groups; or











- Director; or











- Motion picture editor, sound dubbing, special effects, or titling artist; or











- Writer (where the writing is the writer's own creative work, but not
writing that is compilation, documentation or description of a non-artistic
nature, such as technical writing, the writing of technical or scientific
reports, etc.); or











- Music or lyrics arranger, composer or writer; or




 



   2.   Author of books, essays, poems or short stories; or



 



   3.   Cartoon artist, including animated media; or



 



   4.   Creator of visual fine arts, using artist's materials (i.e.,
lithographer, painter, sculptor, or the equivalent); or



 



   5.   Drawing, graphic, illustration or sketch artist; or



 



   6.   Performing artist, including comedian, dancer, impersonator,
juggler, magician, mime, musician, or singer; or



 



   7.   Photographer, to the extent the photography is primarily
artistic in nature and not primarily journalistic or commercial.



 



   (c)   Any person exempt from tax under Subsections (a) or (b) shall
be required to timely file for registration and subsequent renewals before
the delinquency date.  The failure to timely file or renew prior to the date
the taxes would otherwise have been delinquent pursuant to Section 21.05 of
this Article, shall render inapplicable the exemption provided in Subsections
(a) and/or (b) and subject the person to the tax that would otherwise be
payable and to any interest and penalty applicable thereto.



 



 



SEC. 21.30.  NEW BUSINESS EXEMPTION.




(Amended by Ord. No. 175,029*, Eff. 2/5/03, Oper. 2/1/03.)




 



   (a)   (Amended by Ord. No. 182,275, Eff. 11/20/12.)  A business
that establishes a new fixed location within the City and is not owned, in
whole or in part, by a person that was engaged in business in an existing
fixed location in the City in the immediately preceding tax year, is a "New
Business" that shall be exempt from the applicable minimum tax for its first
tax year of operation.  This business shall also be exempt from any other
tax imposed under this Article for up to its first two tax years of
operation, or its first three tax years of operation if the business first
commenced operations between January 1, 2010, and December 31, 2015, as
follows:



 



   1.   For its first two tax years of operation, a New Business that
has less than $500,000.00 of total taxable yearly gross receipts shall be
exempt from any additional tax imposed pursuant to this article for any tax
year in which it has less than $500,000 in total taxable gross receipts. 
However, if a New Business first commences operations between January 1,
2010, and December 31, 2015, a New Business shall be exempt from any minimum
or additional tax imposed pursuant to this Article for its first three tax
years of operation, regardless of how much tax would be imposed absent this
exemption.  A business qualifying for exemption under this subdivision for
its first tax year of operation shall also be exempt from the applicable
minimum tax for its second tax year of operation, or its second and third tax
years of operation if it first commences operations between January 1, 2010,
and December 31, 2015.



 



   (i)   The exemption for tax in the second tax year of business
operation is extended to December 31, 2017.  The exemptions for tax for the
second and third tax years of business operations are subject to review and
may result in a suspension under any of the following circumstances as
determined by the Council, subject to the approval of the Mayor:



 



   (A)   The City experiences a major natural or man-made disaster
including, but not limited to, earthquakes, fires, or terrorist incident, for
which the response and recovery require expenditure of more than one percent
of General Fund revenues (i.e., $40,000,000 in 2006-07); or



 



   (B)   An economic downturn resulting in a greater than one percent
overall actual decline in all General Fund revenue for the fiscal year ended
June 30th of that year (i.e., $40,000,000 in 2006-07); or



 



   (C)   The City is legislatively, legally or otherwise precluded from
levying and collecting General Fund revenue that results in a greater than
one percent total decline in budgeted General Fund revenue for the fiscal
year (i.e., $40,000,000 in 2006-07); or



 



   (D)   The City receives a legal judgment for which either an option
for legal appeal does not exist, or the City Council and Mayor decline to
pursue that legal appeal, and the judgment exceeds ten percent of the Reserve
Fund (i.e., $18,500,000 in 2006-07); or



 



   (E)   There is a non-discretionary occurrence requiring expenditure
of funds from the Emergency Reserve Account of the Reserve Fund.



 



   (ii)   To implement a suspension of the exemption in a given
calendar year, action by the Council, subject to the approval of the Mayor,
must be made by September 30th of the preceding calendar year.



 



   (iii)   The exemption period shall be in effect for ten years unless
the Council takes one of the following actions:  (a) before September 30th
of the fifth year the Council takes an affirmative action not to extend the
exemption period for a second consecutive five year period; or (b) prior to
September 30th of the tenth year of the exemption period, the Council extends
the exemption period beyond ten years.  A suspension of the tax exemption
will result in an equivalent period being added to the original ten-year
exemption period, or five-year exemption period if the Council takes action
not to extend the exemption period for the second five-year period.  This
would result in the sunset clause of the ordinance expiring at the end of ten
years, or the number of years the exemption was in effect plus any suspension
period, whichever is greater, but in no event would the actual number of
years of second year tax exemption exceed ten, unless the Council takes an
affirmative action to extend the exemption period beyond ten years, or if the
council takes an action not to extend the exemption period for a second
five-year period, the sunset clause of the ordinance would expire at the end
of the fifth year, or the number of years the exemption was in effect plus
any suspension period, whichever is greater, but in no event would the actual
number of years of second year tax exemption exceed five.



 



   (iv)   Reinstatement of the tax exemption shall require approval of
the Council, subject to the approval of the Mayor.



 



   2.   A new business shall not include a construction business
involved in the following activities:  single-family housing construction
(as defined by the 1997 NAICS Industry Code 233210); multifamily housing
construction (as defined by the 1997 NAICS Industry Code 233220);
manufacturing and industrial building construction (as defined by the 1997
NAICS Industry Code 233310); commercial and institutional building
construction (as defined by the 1997 NAICS Industry Code 233320); highway and
street construction (as defined by the 1997 NAICS Industry Code 234110);
bridge and tunnel construction (as defined by the 1997 NAICS Industry Code
234120); water, sewer and pipeline construction (as defined by the 1997 NAICS
Industry Code 234910); power and communication transmission line construction
(as defined by the 1997 NAICS Industry Code 234920); plumbing, heating, and
air-conditioning contractors (as defined by the 1997 NAICS Industry Code
235110); painting and wall covering contractors (as defined by the 1997 NAICS
Industry Code 235210); electrical contractors (as defined by the 1997 NAICS
Industry Code 235310); masonry and stone contractors (as defined by the 1997
NAICS Industry Code 235410); drywall, plastering, acoustical, and insulation
contractors (as defined by the 1997 NAICS Industry Code 235420); carpentry
contractors (as defined by the 1997 NAICS Industry Code 235510); floor laying
and other floor contractors (as defined by the 1997 NAICS Industry Code
235520); roofing, siding and sheet metal contractors (as defined by the 1997
NAICS Industry Code 235610); water well drilling contractors (as defined by
the 1997 NAICS Industry Code 235810); structural steel erection contractors
(as defined by the 1997 NAICS Industry Code 235910); glass and glazing
contractors (as defined by the 1997 NAICS Industry Code 235920); excavation
contractors (as defined by the 1997 NAICS Industry code 235930); security
systems services (except locksmiths) (as defined by the NAICS Industry Code
561621); or a film producer (as defined in Section 21.109 of this Code or the
applicable industry code).



 



   (b)   Any new business that is exempt from tax under Subsection (a)
above shall be required to obtain a Tax Registration Certificate and an
exemption letter from the Director of Finance.  Failure to obtain these
documents prior to the taxes becoming delinquent pursuant to Section 21.05 of
this Code, shall render inapplicable the exemption provided in Subsection (a)
and subject the business to the tax that would otherwise be payable and to
any interest and penalty applicable pursuant to Section 21.05 of this Code.



 



   *  Section 3 of Ord. No. 175,029 provides that “[t]his section is
repealed effective December 31, 2006.”



 



 



SEC. 21.31.  SETTLEMENT BUREAU.



   (Added by Ord. No. 174,083, Eff. 8/19/01, Oper. 1/1/02.)



 



   (a)   There shall be a Settlement Bureau in the City Attorney’s
office, which shall be staffed by one or more representatives of the City
Attorney.  The purpose of the Settlement Bureau shall be to receive and
respond to offers of settlement from persons who have been assessed or
otherwise billed for delinquent taxes, or who have filed claims for refund of
overpaid  taxes which have been denied in whole or in part, under this
article or Articles 1.1, 1.3, 1.7, 1.11 or 1.15 of this chapter.  The tender
of an offer of settlement shall not constitute any part of the offeror’s
administrative remedy process.  The amount of any unaccepted offer or
counteroffer of settlement shall not be disclosed by the Settlement Bureau
staff to any person outside of the Settlement Bureau, whether within or
without the City Attorney’s office, except as may be necessary to obtain
approval of a provisionally accepted settlement, as provided in subsection
(c) hereof.



 



   (b)   Any person may tender to the Settlement Bureau an offer of
settlement of a claim by or against the City, described in subsection (a)
hereof, prior to the commencement of litigation on the merits of said
claim.  Each such offer shall be in writing and contain the amount the
offeror proposes to pay to or receive from the City and the factual and legal
grounds in support of the offer.  In response to any offer or counteroffer
of settlement, the Settlement Bureau, on behalf of the City, shall accept it,
reject it or make a counteroffer.  The terms of any settlement between the
offeror and the City shall be set forth in a written agreement executed on
behalf of both parties.  The tender or pendency of an offer of settlement in
the Settlement Bureau shall not affect the timing or disposition of any
administrative proceeding under Section 21.16 of this article.  Upon
execution of a written settlement agreement on behalf of both parties, any
pending administrative proceeding on a claim which is the subject of the
settlement shall terminate.  Upon the commencement of litigation by or
against the City on the merits of a claim which is the subject of a pending
settlement offer or counteroffer, said pending offer or counteroffer shall be
deemed rejected.



 



   (c)   Any settlement offer or counteroffer accepted by the
Settlement Bureau, which requires the approval of a person or entity, other
than the City Attorney, pursuant to Charter Section 273 or Los Angeles
Administrative Code Sections 5.173 or 5.175, shall be accepted provisionally
on behalf of the City, subject to obtaining such other required approval.



 



 



SEC. 21.32.  REWARDS FOR INFORMATION.



   (Added by Ord. No. 174,088, Eff. 8/19/01.)



 



   (a)   Reward Program.  The Director of Finance is authorized to pay
such sums as the Director deems necessary for detecting nonpayments and
underpayments of City of Los Angeles business tax.  Any amount payable under
this section shall be paid from the proceeds of the amount collected as a
result of the information provided.



 



   (b)   Eligibility to File Claim for Reward.  Any person, other than
certain present or former City of Los Angeles employees, who submits to the
Office of Finance information relating to the nonpayment or underpayment of
business tax is eligible to file a claim for reward under this section.  No
person who was employed by the City of Los Angeles in the Office of Finance,
at the time he or she came into possession of information relating to the
nonpayment or underpayment of business tax, or at the time he or she
submitted such information to the Office of Finance, shall be eligible for
reward under this section.  Any other City officer or employee, or former
City officer or employee, is eligible to file a claim for reward if the
information submitted to the Office of Finance came to his or her knowledge
other than in the course of his or her official duties.



 



   (c)   Submission of Information and Filing Claim for Reward.  Any
person desiring to claim a reward under this section must submit information
relating to the nonpayment or underpayment of business tax to the Office of
Finance on a form furnished by, and in the manner prescribed by, the Director
of Finance.  As early as the time of such submission of information, but no
later than one year after the City’s recovery of unpaid or underpaid
business tax pursuant to the submitted information, the person must file a
claim for reward with the City Clerk on a form furnished by, and in the
manner prescribed by, the Director of Finance.



 



   (d)   Payment  of Reward.  All relevant factors, including the
value of the information furnished in relation to the facts developed by the
investigation of the nonpayment or underpayment, shall be taken into account
by the Director of Finance in determining whether a reward shall be paid, and
if so, the amount thereof.  Reasons for rejecting a claim for reward
include, but are not limited to:



 



   (1)   the information submitted by the informant was of no value;



 



   (2)   the information submitted by the informant was already known
to the City; and



 



   (3)   payment would be contrary to law.



 



   (e)   Amount of Reward.  The amount of a reward shall represent
what the Director of Finance deems to be adequate compensation in the
particular case, not to exceed 10 percent of the additional taxes, interest
and penalties which are recovered as a result of the information.  No reward
shall be paid if the Director of Finance determines that the recovery was so
small as to call for a reward of less than $50.00.  Payment of a reward will
be made as promptly as the circumstances of the case permit, but not until
the taxes, interest and penalties involved have been collected.  However,
the informant may waive any claim for reward with respect to an uncollected
portion of the taxes, interest and penalties, in which case the claim may be
immediately processed.  Only a duly authorized representative of the
Director of Finance is authorized to make any offer or promise, or statement
otherwise purporting to bind the Director of Finance with respect to the
payment of any reward or the amount thereof, and any such offer, promise or
statement must be in writing.



 



   (f)   Protest by Informant Against Action on Claim.  If an
informant protests the action taken on the claim, the Director of Finance or
the Director’s representative may confer with the informant or his or her
representative to resolve the protest.  In the course of such conferring,
the Director or his or her representative may disclose the amount collected
pursuant to the information furnished by the informant, notwithstanding the
provisions of Section 21.17 of this article.  However, the results of any
audit or examination shall not be revealed to the informant or his or her
representative in violation of Section 21.17 of this article.



 



   (g)   Anonymity of Informant.  In order to fairly distribute the
burden of taxation among the subjects thereof, it is the policy of the City
of Los Angeles to encourage informants to submit information concerning
unpaid and underpaid business taxes.  In furtherance of this policy, no
person shall disclose the identity of an informant to any unauthorized
person, except to the extent required by law.  If other than the
informant’s true name is used in furnishing the information, the claimant
must include with his or her claim satisfactory proof of his or her identity
as the informant.



 



 



SEC. 21.33.  [TAX RATES.]



   (Added by Ord. No. 178,101, Eff. 1/9/07.)



 



   Unless specifically listed under other areas of this article, the
annual tax rates are as follows:



 



   (a)   Tax Rate A shall be $1.05 for each $1,000 of gross receipts or
fractional part.  (Amended by Ord. No. 179,171, Eff. 10/8/07.)



 



   (b)   Tax Rate B shall be $1.32 for each $1,000 of gross receipts or
fractional part.  (Amended by Ord. No. 179,171, Eff. 10/8/07.)



 



   (c)   Tax Rate C shall be $2.65 for each $1,000 of gross receipts or
fractional part.  (Amended by Ord. No. 179,171, Eff. 10/8/07.)



 



   (d)   Tax Rate D shall be $3.28 for each $1,000 of gross receipts or
fractional part.  (Amended by Ord. No. 179,171, Eff. 10/8/07.)



 



   (e)   Tax Rate E shall be $3.70 for each $1,000 of gross receipts or
fractional part.  (Amended by Ord. No. 179,171, Eff. 10/8/07.)



 



   (f)   Tax Rate F shall be $5.07 for each $1,000 of gross receipts or
fractional part. For tax years beginning after December 31, 2015, the rate
shall be reduced from this maximum rate as follows:  (Amended by Ord. No.
183,419, Eff. 3/20/15.)



 



   1.   For the tax year beginning on January 1, 2016, Tax Rate F shall
be $4.75 for each $1,000 of gross receipts or fractional part;



 



   2.   For the tax year beginning on January 1, 2017, Tax Rate F shall
be $4.50 for each $1,000 of gross receipts or fractional part;



 



   3.   For tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, Tax Rate F
shall be $4.25 for each $1,000 of gross receipts or fractional part.



 



 



SEC. 21.41.  GROSS RECEIPTS FUND CLASS 1.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 183,419, Eff. 3/20/15.)



 



   For every person engaged in business as a Child Care Provider,
Multimedia Business, Internet-based Application Service Provider,
Internet-based Data Manipulation Businesses, Telephone Company, or Tugboat
and/or Barge Operator, or engaged in Wholesale Sales, Tax Rate A, set forth
in Section 21.33(a), shall be applicable.

   (a)   CHILD CARE PROVIDERS.



 



   1.   A child care provider means providing non-medical care for
children under 18 years of age in need of personal services, supervision or
assistance essential for sustaining the activities of daily living or for the
protection of the individual on less than a 24-hour basis.



 



   2.   As used in this section, the term "gross receipts" does not
include receipts earned by:



 



   (i)   Community chests, funds, foundations and/or corporations: (A)
that are organized and operated for religious, hospital or charitable
purposes; (B) that are not conducted for profit; and (C) for which no part of
the organization's net earnings inures to the benefit of any private
shareholder or individual;



 



   (ii)   Non-profit secondary schools which are duly accredited by the
University of California;



 



   (iii)   Non-profit elementary schools in which instruction is given
to students in the pre-primary and primary grades in the several branches of
studies required to be taught in the public schools of the State of
California;



 



   (iv)   Rotary, Kiwanis and Lions Clubs;



 



   (v)   Non-profit automobile clubs, chambers of commerce, and other
community service organizations; and



 



   (vi)   Trade associations such as the Merchants Plumbers
Association, Merchants and Manufacturers Association, and labor organizations.



 



   (b)   MULTIMEDIA BUSINESSES.



 



   1.   A multimedia business means a business that produces films,
disks, tapes, software or other recording devices, whether visual or audio,
through the integration of two or more media, which media include, without
limitation, computer generated graphics and video, film, slides, video tapes,
audio tapes and photographs or provides computer programming services on a
contract or fee basis to the producer of these media. These services shall
include computer software design and analysis, modification of custom
software, digital imaging and other related programming services, the
development of online and internet services and the design of web sites for
clients.



 



   2.   A multimedia business shall not include: a business that
utilizes multimedia to sell goods or further its business; motion picture,
television or radio producers; radio or television broadcasters; or an adult
entertainment business, as defined in Section 12.70 B. of this Code.



 



   (c)   INTERNET-BASED APPLICATION SERVICE PROVIDERS.



 



   1.   An internet-based application service provider (ASP) means a
business that provides its customers access, exclusively through the
internet, to electronic applications that are available exclusively on
computer devices operated by or on behalf of the ASP. An "electronic
application" is a computer program that provides the user with the ability to
accomplish a specific task. An ASP shall not include a business that provides
electronic applications, including but not limited to computer software, for
customers to download through the internet. A business does not qualify as an
ASP unless its internet-based electronic application provides information to
the user directly without any substantial intermediation by any person except
for technical support related to the use of the electronic application. An
ASP shall not include a business that sells electronic applications through
the internet, or any business that obtains its income from the use of its
electronic applications by itself, on its behalf, or by any related entity as
defined in section 21.00(a).



 



   2.   An ASP business shall not include: a business that utilizes an
application to sell goods or further its business; motion picture, television
or radio producers; telephone companies; radio or television broadcasters; or
an adult entertainment business as defined in Section 12.70 B. of this Code.



 



   3.   The ASP business tax classification shall apply only for the
2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018 tax years unless the
Council acts by ordinance to amend this Section and extend the length of time
for which this classification shall apply.



 



   (d)   INTERNET-BASED DATA MANIPULATION.



 



   1.   An internet-based data manipulation business means a business
that exclusively provides access to internet-based applications that allow a
user to search, compile, and otherwise manipulate data, including but not
limited to a business that operates or provides access to one or several
"search engines". A "search engine" is an internet-based application that
retrieves documents or files or data from the internet, a computer network, a
database, or other data sources. "Data" includes visual, numerical, and
written information. A business does not qualify as an Internet-based Data
Manipulation Business unless its internet-based application provides
information to the user directly without any substantial intermediation by
any person except for technical support related solely to the use of the
internet-based application.



 



   2.   An internet-based data manipulation business shall not include:
a business that utilizes internet-based data manipulation to sell goods or
further its business; motion picture, television or radio producers;
telephone companies; radio or television broadcasters; or an adult
entertainment business as defined in Section 12.70 B. of this Code.



 



   3.   The internet-based data manipulation business tax
classification shall apply only for the 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015,
2016, 2017 and 2018 tax years unless the Council acts by ordinance to amend
this Section and extend the length of time for which this classification
shall apply.



 



   (e)   TELEPHONE COMPANIES.



 



   1.   A person engaged in the business of providing telephone
services means a telephone company as the term is used in Article XIII,
Section 19 of the Constitution of California.



 



   2.   For the purpose of this section, "gross receipts" shall have
the same meaning as in Subsection (a) of Section 21.00, except that only
those receipts derived from providing telephone services within the City of
Los Angeles shall be included, and further excepting, that only receipts
resulting from intrastate telephone services shall be included. "Gross
receipts" shall also include receipts from the selling of advertising or
advertising space in any directory, other printed matter or any other media
only for business tax purposes commencing on or after January 1, 1984.



 



   (f)   TUGBOAT AND BARGE OPERATORS. Tugboat and barge operator means
any person engaged in the business of operating a tugboat or barge.



 



   (g)   WHOLESALE SALES. A wholesale sale or sale at wholesale means a
sale of goods, wares or merchandise for the purpose of resale in the regular
course of business; provided that a blind person, within the meaning of this
section, need not include the first $100,000.00 of gross receipts in the
computation of the amount of tax due. This exemption shall not subject these
persons to the provisions of Section 21.49, Professions and Occupations, of
this article.



 



   (1)   A blind person, within the meaning of this section, means a
person having not more than ten percent visual acuity in the better eye, with
correction as certified by a licensed physician and surgeon who specialize in
diseases of the eye or the Bureau of Vocational Rehabilitation of the
Department of Education of the State of California. The exemption provided by
this section shall not apply until a certificate as to the blindness shall be
furnished to the Director of Finance.



 



   (2)   No tax under this article shall be required to be paid by any
non-profit wholly owned retailer food cooperative by reason of its sales to
its owner-members.



 



   (3)   For the purpose of this section, newspapers, magazines,
periodicals, books and other printed matter is deemed to be included in the
term "goods, wares or merchandise" and the term "gross receipts" means
California receipts from the selling or furnishing of advertising or
advertising space in printed matter in addition to California receipts from
the sale of goods, wares or merchandise. The provisions of this subsection
shall apply only to business tax periods commencing on or after January 1,
1984.



 



 



SEC. 21.42.  GROSS RECEIPTS FUND CLASS 2.



   (Repealed by Ord. No. 183,419, Eff. 3/20/15.)



 



 



SEC. 21.43.  GROSS RECEIPTS FUND CLASS 2.



   (Tile and Section Amended by Ord. No. 183,419, Eff. 3/20/15.)



 



   For every person engaged in business: as an Antique Show or Collectors
Exchange Show Promoter; as a Swap Meet Operator; in the Rental of
Accommodations or Residences; in the Rental of Office, Commercial Buildings,
etc.; in Retail Sales; in the Laundry, Cleaning or Service, or Shoe Repair
field; as a Radio or Television Broadcaster; or as a Theater Operator; Tax
Rate B, as set forth on Section 21.33(b), shall be applicable.



 



   (a)   ANTIQUE SHOW AND COLLECTORS EXCHANGE SHOW PROMOTER.



 



   1.   Antique show, collectors, exchange show, antique show or
collectors exchange show promoter and antique show or collectors exchange
show exhibitor shall be as defined in Article 3, Division 9, Section
103.301.1 of this Code.



 



   2.   In addition to the tax stated here, there is an additional
$0.59 per space for each show space rented for each day of show operation.
The portion of the tax measured by space rentals shall be paid to the
Director of Finance on a monthly basis, and shall be delinquent if not paid
within the calendar month following the month during which the tax is
accrued, notwithstanding any other provision of this article. If the promoter
of the antique show or collectors exchange show is an organization otherwise
exempted from the payment of taxes under this chapter, it shall be required,
notwithstanding any other provision of this article, to obtain a business tax
registration certificate and pay to the Director of Finance the above noted
space rental taxes. The promoter must pass the space rental tax on to the
antique show or collectors exchange show exhibitor and the reimbursement
shall not be included in the promoter's gross receipts under this section.



 



   3.   For the purpose of taxation of antique shows and collectors
exchange shows, the definitions contained under Rental of Office, Commercial
Buildings, etc., in this section shall apply, except that the definition of
"tenant" and "tenancy" shall include land or space on land, and is not
limited to the occupation of a building or structure or space.



 



   4.   No registration certificate shall be required or a tax paid by
any person engaged in one or more of the businesses described in this
section, unless the total gross receipts derived from being so engaged are
equal to or in excess of $20,000.00 per calendar year.



 



   (b)   SWAP MEET OPERATOR.



 



   1.   A swap meet operator is defined in Article 3, Division 9,
Section 103.311 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.



 



   2.   In addition to the tax stated here, there is an additional
$.059 per space for each swap meet space rented for each day of swap meet
operation. The portion of the tax measured by space rentals shall be paid to
the Director of Finance on a monthly basis and shall be delinquent if not
paid within the calendar month following the month during which the tax is
accrued, notwithstanding any other provision of this article. If the operator
of the swap meet is an organization otherwise exempted from the payment of
taxes under this chapter, it shall be required, notwithstanding any other
provision of this article, to obtain a business tax registration certificate
and pay to the Director of Finance the above noted space rental taxes. The
swap meet operator may pass the space rental tax on to the swap meet vendor
and the reimbursement shall not be included in the swap meet operator's gross
receipts for purposes of this section.



 



   3.   For the purpose of taxation of swap meets, the definitions
contained under Rental of Office, Commercial Buildings, etc., in this section
shall apply, except that the definition of "tenant" and "tenancy" shall
include land or space on land, and is not limited to the occupation of a
building or structure or space.



 



   4.   No registration certificate shall be required or a tax paid by
any person engaged in one or more of the businesses described in this
section, unless the total gross receipts derived from being so engaged are
equal to or in excess of $20,000.00 per calendar year.



 



   (c)   RENTING ACCOMMODATIONS OR RESIDENTIAL RENTALS.



 



   1.   Renting accommodations or residential rentals means every
person engaged in the business of conducting or operating a hotel, rooming
house, boarding house, apartment house, lodging house, house court or
bungalow court, and every person engaged in the business of renting or
letting rooms, apartments or other accommodations for dwelling, sleeping or
lodging in any similar place, and every person engaged in the business of
operating any public camp, or trailer camp, park or lot where the public may
rent camping, trailer or tent space, or services provided or available in
connection with that space.



 



   2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 21.06 to the
contrary, a person required by this section to pay a tax need obtain only one
registration certificate by reason of that requirement; but he or she shall
include in the measure of the tax the gross receipts derived from all
businesses taxed by this section engaged in by him or her within the City of
Los Angeles, whether at one or more than one location. At the time the tax
provided here is remitted, the Director of Finance may require the registrant
to furnish a statement of the number of these businesses conducted by him or
her, giving the street address of each location, the amount of gross receipts
attributable to each location, and designating a location at which the
registration certificate issued shall be posted as provided in Section 21.09.
The location so designated shall be considered the location of the business
for the purpose of Section 21.08.



 



   3.   The Director of Finance may require a person engaged in any
business taxed by this section to furnish information necessary in order for
the Director of Finance to determine the nature of the ownership of the
business, and the amount of interest that parties to the ownership of the
business claim or possess. Where the Director of Finance determines that the
parties claiming or possessing an ownership interest in two or more
businesses taxed by this section, one or more of which produces less than
$20,000.00 in gross receipts in a particular calendar year, are substantially
the same, he may require that the receipts of all these businesses be used as
the measure of any tax that may be due, and issue a registration certificate
and the identifying symbols as may be required in the manner prescribed in
Subsection (c)2. Notice of the determinations made by the Director of Finance
shall be served on the persons or parties affected by his or her
determination in the same manner as notices of assessment are served under
the provisions of Section 21.16. Any person or party affected by the
determination of the Director of Finance may protest the determination by
making written application for a hearing within ten days after the mailing or
serving of the notice of the Director of Finance's determination. Within 15
days after receiving a request for a hearing, the Director of Finance shall
cause the matter to be set for hearing before a board constituted as provided
in Section 21.16. The Board shall consider the evidence, make findings, serve
a copy of the findings, and receive and consider any exceptions that may be
filed, and make any modification of its findings it may deem necessary. Once
the Board completes those steps, the findings of the board shall be
considered final.



 



   4.   No tax under this section shall be required to be paid by any
cooperative housing corporation by reason of its renting or letting to its
tenant-stockholders.



 



   5.   No registration certificate shall be required or a tax paid by
any person engaged in one or more of the businesses described in this
section, unless the total gross receipts derived from being so engaged are
equal to or in excess of $20,000.00 per calendar year.



 



   (d)   RENTAL OF OFFICE, COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS, ETC.



 



   1.   Commercial Rental means renting or letting a building or
structure of any kind on land located in the City of Los Angeles to a tenant
for purposes other than dwelling, sleeping or lodging, or renting or letting
space or the use or possession of space, or the right to use or possess space
in a building or structure to a tenant for those purposes, and for every
lessor engaged in the business of renting or letting boat slips or moorings.
Tenant and tenancy shall include tenants and tenancies of all types, and
persons occupying and the occupation of a building or structure, or space in
a building or structure under any license or any concession agreement with a
lessor. The right to use or possess the space shall be deemed to be the same
as actual occupation.



 



   2.   The foregoing definition includes renting and letting of every
kind and character, whether by an owner, lessee or sublessee, and licensing,
and the granting of a concession by any of them, without regard to the length
of the term of the tenancy, the date of its commencement, expiration or
renewal, without regard to the number of tenants a lessor may have, or the
number of buildings or structures, or the quantity of space in the buildings
or structures, or the number of boat slips or moorings a lessor may have
available for renting or letting to a tenant. It shall not fail to be a
commercial rental by reason of the fact that one or more persons may reside
within the building or structure where either the primary purpose of the
particular tenancy or the primary use or right of use by the particular
tenant is for some purpose other than dwelling, sleeping or lodging. It also
shall not fail to be a commercial rental by reason of the fact that the
tenant proposes to operate or does in fact operate the building or structure
as a premises for a hotel, apartment or other dwelling.



 



   Commercial rental specifically does not include any of the following:



 



   (i)   Maintaining a storage or warehouse and required to pay a tax
for that business under other provisions of this article;



 



   (ii)   Providing space in a building or structure for the parking or
storage of automobiles, and required to pay a tax for that business under
other provisions of this article;



 



   (iii)   Operating a theater, exhibition hall or any similar place of
public assemblage or entertainment, to the extent that the receipts are
charges collected from patrons for admission to the premises;



 



   (iv)   To the extent that a business activity includes renting to
casual tenants, where casual tenant and casual tenancy means any tenant or
tenancy where the consideration paid or agreed to be paid consists
exclusively of services; or where, after examining all the facts, the
Director of Finance determines that the only tenancy is that of one or more
tenants paying to a sublessor, primarily on a cost-sharing basis for the
space used, involving less than 25% of the space under the control of the
sublessor, and is terminable at will, a business otherwise subject to tax as
a commercial rental;



 



   (v)   A business where the gross receipts are received as
compensation for permitting coin-operated machines and devices to be placed,
or to remain on or within the premises under the control of the lessor;



 



   (vi)   Conducting, operating, promoting or sponsoring a bona fide
trade show as defined in Section 21.168.4(b) of this article, where the bona
fide trade show does not exceed 14 days; neither shall these persons be
subject to tax under any other provision of this article by virtue of
engaging in any activity for which an exemption is granted in this paragraph.



 



   (vii)   Acting as an antique show or collectors exchange show
promoter or as a swap meet operator, both of which are defined in Article 3,
Division 9, Section 103.311 of this Code.



 



   (viii)   Renting or letting boat slips or moorings to the extent
that the boat slips or moorings are used exclusively for commercial purposes.



 



   3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 21.06 to the
contrary, a lessor required by this section to pay a tax need obtain only one
registration certificate; but he or she shall include in the measure of the
tax the gross receipts derived from all businesses taxed by this section
engaged in by him or her within the City of Los Angeles, whether at one or
more than one location. At the time the tax provided here is remitted, the
Director of Finance may require the registrant to furnish a statement of the
number of these businesses conducted by him or her giving the street address
of each location, the amount of gross receipts attributable to each location,
and designating a location at which the registration certificate issued shall
be posted as provided in Section 21.09. The location so designated shall be
considered the location of the business for the purposes of Section 21.08.



 



   4.   A promoter or operator of a consumer show, exhibition or fair
shall submit to the Director of Finance a list containing the legal name,
doing business as name (DBA), business address, mailing address and telephone
number of each participating exhibitor 30 days prior to the date of the
consumer show, exhibition or fair and shall provide each participating
exhibitor with information of the City's Business Tax requirements.



 



   5.   No registration certificate shall be required or a tax paid by
any person engaged in one or more of the businesses described in this
section, unless the total gross receipts derived from being so engaged are
equal to or in excess of $20,000.00 per calendar year.



 



   (e)   RETAIL SALES.



 



   1.   A retail sale or sale at retail means a sale of goods, wares or
merchandise for any purpose other than resale in the regular course of
business; provided that a blind person need not include the first $75,000.00
of gross receipts in the computation of the amount of tax due. This exemption
shall not subject these persons to the provisions of Section 21.49,
Professions and Occupations, of this article.



 



   2.   A blind person, within the meaning of this section, means a
person having not more than ten percent visual acuity in the better eye, with
correction as certified by a licensed physician and surgeon who specializes
in diseases of the eye, or the Bureau of Vocational Rehabilitation of the
Department of Education of the State of California. The exemption provided by
this section shall not apply until a certificate of blindness has been
furnished to the Director of Finance.



 



   3.   Whenever a person engages at the same location in two or more
businesses of the kind taxed in this section, a joint Registration
Certificate shall be issued for all these businesses and the tax shall be
measured by the sum of the gross receipts of all these businesses so
conducted.



 



   4.   For the purpose of this section, newspapers, magazines,
periodicals, books and other printed matter shall be deemed to be included in
the term "goods, wares or merchandise" and the term "gross receipts" means
California receipts from the selling or furnishing of advertising or
advertising space in printed matter in addition to California receipts from
the sale of goods, wares or merchandise. The provisions of this subsection
shall apply only to business tax periods commencing on or after January 1,
1984.



 



   5.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to an exhibitor
who displays, exhibits or offers for sale or exchange any secondhand personal
property at an antique show or at a collectors exchange show, or a vendor who
sells, exchanges, displays or offers for sale or exchange new or secondhand
goods at a swap meet, as defined in Article 3, Division 9, Section 103.311 of
this Code. This exemption applies only to that portion of an exhibitor's or
vendor's receipts from sales or exchanges at an antique show, collectors
exchange show or swap meet.



 



   (f)   LAUNDRY, CLEANING OR SERVICE AND SHOE REPAIR. Laundry,
cleaning and dyeing agent, collector, linen supply and shoe repair means
washing, ironing, drying, cleaning, dyeing, sizing, blocking or pressing any
clothing, wearing apparel, garment, linen, fabric or similar material, or
similar article of personal property, whether accomplished by hand, machine
or any coin-operated machine operated by a person, his or her employee or any
customer, or furnishing or letting the use of any towels, linens, aprons,
bedding, napkins, table covers, or any other article of personal property of
a similar nature, or collecting or delivering any similar article as an
agency or otherwise, for a fee or charge, or repairing or rebuilding shoes;
provided that a person engaged in business subject to tax under this section,
makes minor alterations or repairs to the clothing, wearing apparel,
garments, linens, fabrics or similar material being washed, ironed, dried,
cleaned, dyed, sized, blocked or pressed, in lieu of paying a separate
business tax and obtaining a separate registration certificate under this
article for the conduct of each business, may combine the gross receipts of
all these businesses at that location and upon the basis of that computation
pay a combined business tax and obtain a single registration certificate
under this section for all these businesses at that location.



 



   (g)   RADIO AND TELEVISION BROADCASTER.



 



   1.   Radio Broadcaster means any person engaging in the business of
producing and broadcasting or broadcasting local or network radio programs or
advertising material, including the furnishing of services, program elements
or facilities in connection with production, production and broadcasting, or
broadcasting.



 



   2.   Television Broadcaster means any person engaging in the
business of producing and broadcasting or broadcasting local or network
television programs or advertising materials, including the furnishing of
services, program elements or facilities in connection with production,
production and broadcasting, or broadcasting. A "television broadcaster"
shall include any person operating a television system where the viewing
audience pays a fee to view the broadcast.



 



   3.   When gross receipts are constitutionally required to be
apportioned and are derived from or attributable to activities engaged in
both within and without the City, gross receipts shall be apportioned in a
manner that is fairly calculated to determine the amount of gross receipts
derived from or attributable to engaging in business in the City. This
apportionment shall be made on the basis of payroll, value and situs of
tangible property, general expense, or by reference to any of these or other
factors, or by any other method of apportionment, that will fairly determine
the amount of gross receipts derived from or attributable to engaging in
business in the City. Gross receipts derived from or attributable to sources
within the City shall include gross receipts from any activities carried on
in this City.



 



   4.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the gross receipts used in the
measurement of the tax under this section shall be limited to receipts that
are generated, produced, or attributable to local activities in the State of
California.



 



   5.   The provisions of this section shall apply only to business tax
periods commencing on or after January 1, 1984.



 



   (h)   THEATER OPERATOR. Theater Operator means any person engaged in
the business of conducting a theater containing a permanent stage upon which
movable scenery and theatrical appliances are used, where regular theatrical
or vaudeville performances are given and for the privilege of viewing the
performances, a fee is charged, collected or received, or conducting,
managing or carrying on a moving picture theater or drive-in theater, where
moving or motion pictures are exhibited and a fee is charged, collected or
received, or conducting, operating or promoting any entertainment, show or
exhibition not otherwise required to pay a tax under other provisions of this
article, where an admission fee is charged, collected or received, or where
no admission fee is charged, collected or received but donations of any kind
or character are solicited or accepted. Provided, that in connection with any
entertainment, show or exhibition, if no admission fee is charged, collected
or received, and no donations of any kind or character are solicited or
accepted, or if the person conducting, operating or presenting the
entertainment, show or exhibition taxed under this section is a person
mentioned in Section 21.49 (c)3.(iv), Professions and Occupations, or if the
person is a strolling musician who performs on sidewalks, in parks and
similar publicly owned places where no admission fee is charged, collected or
received, even though donations are solicited and collected, no tax shall be
required to be paid for those performances by that person.



 



 



SEC. 21.44.  GROSS RECEIPTS FUND CLASS 4.



   (Repealed by Ord. No. 183,419, Eff. 3/20/15.)



 



 



SEC. 21.45.  GROSS RECEIPTS FUND CLASS 5.



   (Repealed by Ord. No. 183,419, Eff. 3/20/15.)



 



 



SEC. 21.46.  GROSS RECEIPTS FUND CLASS 6.



   (Added by Ord. No. 178,101, Eff. 1/9/07.)



 



   For every person engaged in the business of Promoting or Staging
Sporting Events, Operating or Maintaining Vending Machines, Collection
Agencies, Storage, Freight Forwarding/Steamship Agency, and Personal Property
Rental, Tax Rate C, as set forth in Section 21.33(c), shall be applicable.



 



   (a)   SPORTING EVENT.  Sporting Event means the business of
promoting or staging any baseball, football, soccer, tennis, polo, swimming,
boxing, wrestling, or similar exhibition, event or contest; provided,
however, as used in this section, "gross receipts" shall not include any of
the following:



 



   1.   Receipts from a trade, calling, occupation, vocation,
profession or other means of livelihood, which this City is prohibited from
taxing under the Constitution or laws of the United States, or under the
Constitution or laws of the State of California;



 



   2.   Receipts of community chests, funds, foundations or
corporations organized and operated for religious, hospital or charitable
purposes, not conducted for profit and no part of the net earnings of which
inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual;



 



   3.   Receipts of non-profit educational institutions of collegiate
grade, defined here to mean institutions incorporated as colleges or
seminaries under the laws of the State of California, which require for
regular admission the completion of a four-year high school course, or its
equivalent, and which confer upon their graduates at least one academic or
professional degree, based on a course of at least four years in liberal arts
and sciences, or on a course of at least three years in professional studies
such as law, theology, education, medicine, pharmacy, architecture, fine
arts, commerce or journalism; receipts of non-profit secondary schools which
are duly accredited by the University of California; and receipts of
non-profit elementary schools in which instruction is given to students in
the pre-primary and primary grades in the several branches of studies
required to be taught in the public schools of the State of California;



 



   4.   Receipts of Rotary, Kiwanis and Lions Clubs, non-profit
automobile clubs, Chambers of Commerce, and other community service
organizations; also receipts of trade associations such as Merchants Plumbers
Association, Merchants and Manufacturers Association and labor organizations.



 



   (b)   VENDING MACHINES.



 



   1.   Vending Machine Operator means the business of operating,
maintaining or letting the use of any coin-operated vending machine for the
dispensing of goods, wares, merchandise or other tangible property.



 



   2.   Except as otherwise provided in this section, each
coin-operated vending machine, which is operated, maintained or used within
this City, shall have conspicuously stamped upon it or affixed on it for
identification purposes, the name and address, Business Tax Registration
Certificate number, and the telephone number, if any, of the owner or
operator.  The identification shall be provided by the owner or operator of
the machine and at his expense, notwithstanding the provisions of Section
21.06(b) to the contrary, and shall be removed from the machine by the owner
or operator when the authority to use the machine is transferred to another
person, whether by sale, lease, license or otherwise.



 



   3.   No business tax or identification shall be required for the
maintenance or operation of:



 



   (i)   Any postage stamp machine;



 



   (ii)   Any machine dispensing sanitary or hygienic articles, or
drinking cups, towels or medicine, which machine is entirely owned and
supplied by the owner or operator of the premises where the machine is
installed, and is maintained solely for the convenience of employees,
visitors or customers and, not for profit to him or to any other person;



 



   (iii)   Any machine, which is entirely owned, operated and supplied
by the owner or operator of the premises where the machine is installed, and
the owner or operator holds a valid registration certificate at that location
to engage in a business taxed under the provisions of Section 21.42,
Wholesale Sales or Section 21.44, Retail Sales, of this article, and the
owner or operator includes the gross receipts from the sale of all goods,
wares, merchandise or other tangible property dispensed by the machine in the
measure of the applicable business tax paid under Section 21.42, Wholesale
Sales or Section 21.44, Retail Sales, of this article;



 



   (iv)   Any machine dispensing newspapers or other printed matter.



 



   (c)   COLLECTION AGENCIES.



 



   1.   Collection agency means and includes all persons engaged
directly or indirectly and as primary or secondary object, business or
pursuit, in soliciting claims for collection or in the collection of claims
owed or due or asserted to be owned or due to another, and any person, when
engaged in collecting accounts for another, where the employment is for one
or more persons, shall be deemed to be engaged in the collection business
within the meaning of this section.  Any person using a fictitious name in
collecting his or her own accounts receivable with the intention of conveying
to the debtor that a third party has been employed, is a collection agency as
contemplated by this section and shall be subject to these provisions.  The
term "collection agency" shall not include attorneys-at-law, individuals
regularly employed on a regular wage or salary, in the capacity of credit men
or in other similar capacity upon the staff of employees of any one person
not engaged in the business of a collection agency, banks, abstract companies
doing an escrow business, duly licensed real estate brokers or agents doing a
real estate business, nor a merchant-owned non-profit credit association
unless they are conducting a collection agency.



 



   2.   In computing the tax imposed by this section, there shall be
deducted from gross receipts the amount received as the result of collections
made outside of the State of California.



 



   (d)   STORAGE, FREIGHT FORWARDING.



 



   1.   Freight Forwarding means the business of preparing the
documentation and otherwise arranging for the importation or exportation of
goods, wares or merchandise, or of collecting or consolidating for shipment
in carload lots or less, truck load lots or less, any goods, wares or
merchandise, as agent or bailee for any person where a fee is charged for
that service.



 



   2.   Steamship Agency means the business of soliciting, receiving or
handling outbound or inbound freight aboard vessels attending to operational
requirements of vessels while they are entering, within and departing from a
port, and performing husbanding services, such as arranging for ships stores,
bunker fuel, crew changes, vessel repairs and delivery or re-delivery of
vessels pursuant to charter.



 



   3.   Storage or Warehousing means the business of storing goods,
ware or merchandise of any kind.



 



   (e)   PERSONAL PROPERTY RENTAL.



 



   1.   Personal Property Rental means the business of leasing or
renting any tangible personal property.  For the purpose of this section,
Tangible Personal Property means personal property that may be seen, weighed,
measured, felt, or touched, or which is in any other manner perceptible to
the senses.



 



   2.   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require the
inclusion of the amount received for the leasing or renting of tangible
personal property, the entire use of which is made wholly outside the State
of California.



 



 



SEC. 21.47.  GROSS RECEIPTS FUND CLASS 7.



   (Added by Ord. No. 178,101, Eff. 1/9/07.)



 



   For every person engaged in the business of Commission Broker and
Independent Telemarketing, Tax Rate D, as set forth in Section 21.33(d),
shall be applicable.



 



   (a)   COMMISSION BROKERS.  Commission Broker means any person
engaged in the business of buying and selling of goods, wares or merchandise
by a person to the extent that the person:



 



   1.   Does not engage in the business of manufacturing, refining,
fabricating, milling, treating or other processing of the goods, wares or
merchandise bought and sold and, does not cause the goods, wares or
merchandise to be manufactured, refined, fabricated, milled, treated or
otherwise processed;



 



   2.   Does not obtain or retain title to the goods, wares or
merchandise, except while the goods, wares or merchandise may be in transit,
or for short periods of time before transportation commences or after it
ceases; and



 



   3.   Does not store or warehouse the goods, wares or merchandise,
except while the goods, wares or merchandise are actually in transit, or for
short periods of time before transportation commences or after it ceases.



 



   (b)   INDEPENDENT TELEMARKETING AGENCY.  Independent Telemarketing
Agency means any person who engages in the business of marketing services or
goods, wares or merchandise on behalf of three or more clients continuously,
none of which has any ownership interest in the person, by use of a
telecommunications device at a call center.  An Independent Telemarketing
Agency shall not include a person who sells his or her own services or goods,
wares or merchandise.  A call center means a location in which 25 or more
persons are continuously employed or utilized to make and/or receive
telephone calls by means of a centralized telecommunications system.



 



 



SEC. 21.48.  GROSS RECEIPTS FUND CLASS 8.



   (Added by Ord. No. 178,101, Eff. 1/9/07.)



 



   (a)   For every person engaged in business providing miscellaneous
services as an Advertising Agency, Aircraft Support Contractor, Apparel
Subcontractor, Bookbinder, Check Cashing Service, Drapery Subcontractor, Heat
Treater, Mailing Service, Metal Plater, Music Teacher, Public Relations
Agency, Refuse Contractor, Shoe Shining Stand, Parlor Operator, Silk Screen
Apparel Subcontractor, Temporary Help Agency, Ticket Seller, Travel Agency,
Typesetter or Wire Terminator, Tax Rate E, as set forth in Section 21.33(e),
shall be applicable.



 



   (b)   For purposes of this section, the following terms are defined
as follows:



 



   Miscellaneous Services means any person engaged in business as an
advertising agency, aircraft support contractor, apparel subcontractor,
bookbinder, check cashing service, drapery subcontractor, heat treater,
mailing service, metal plater, music teacher, public relations agency, refuse
contractor, shoe shining stand or parlor operator, silk screen apparel
subcontractor, temporary help agency, ticket seller, travel agency,
typesetter or wire terminator.



 



   Advertising Agency means any person who engages in the business of
advertisement counseling, including the writing, composing, designing and
placement of advertisements for clients, regardless of the advertising media
employed; provided however that the extent the person employs the use of his
or her own media, he or she shall not be considered an advertising agency
with regard to either the promotion or placement of advertisements in that
media.



 



   Aircraft Support Contractor means any person who engages in the
business of furnishing ground support services to airline carriers, including
the providing of ramp services, baggage and freight handling services, ticket
services, mechanical services, fueling services or other similar services
normally performed at an airport.



 



   Apparel Subcontractor means any person who engages in the business of
cutting, sewing, or fabricating any clothing, wearing apparel, garment, or
similar material belonging to an apparel manufacturer or pursuant to a
contract with another apparel subcontractor.



 



   Bookbinder means any person engaged in the business of binding books.



 



   Check Cashing Service means any person engaged in the business of
cashing payroll checks, for a fee or charge and for every person whose
business consists in whole or in part of cashing checks for others for a fee
or charge.



 



   Drapery Subcontractor means any person who engages in the business of
cutting, sewing, or fabricating any draperies, curtains, or similar material
belonging to a drapery manufacturer, drapery jobber, or drapery seller, or
pursuant to a contract with another drapery subcontractor.



 



   Heat Treater means any person who engages in the business of changing
the hardness and/or strength of metal materials of another by controlled heat
process methods.



 



   Mailing Service means any person who engages in the business of
preparing printed matter for mailing (such as, by sorting, collating, tying,
inserting, addressing, and metering), mailing the printed matter, or
providing (without selling), advising as to, compiling, or maintaining lists
of persons, businesses, or locations for use in mailing printed matter.



 



   Metal Plater means any person who engages in the business of plating,
anodizing or galvanizing metal articles of another electrolysis or any other
plating process.



 



   Music Teacher means any person who engages in the business of teaching
music.



 



   Public Relation Agency means any person who engages in the business of
promoting rapport and goodwill between a person and other persons, special
publics, or the community at large through the distribution of interpretative
material, the development of neighborly interchange and the assessment of
public reaction.



 



   Refuse Contractor means any person who engages in the business of
hauling refuse.



 



   Shoe Shining Stand or Parlor Operator means any person who engages in
the business of operating or maintaining a shoe shining stand or parlor.



 



   Silk Screen Apparel Subcontractor means any person who engages in the
business of performing silk screen printing work upon any clothing, wearing
apparel, garment, or similar material belonging to an apparel manufacturer or
pursuant to a contract with another silk screen apparel subcontractor.



 



   Temporary-Help Agency means any person engaged in the business of
supplying his employees to others on a temporary basis, provided however that
this term does not include an agency for the brokerage of labor for a fee to
be paid either by the applicant for employment or the prospective employer.



 



   Ticket Seller means any person, who engages in the business of selling
rights, evidenced by tickets, which entitle the purchaser to view, hear
and/or attend a theatrical, cultural, sporting or similar event and who does
not sponsor, promote, produce or contribute to the event.  Ticket seller
includes persons selling rights on their own account and persons selling
rights as broker or agent for another person.



 



   Travel Agency means any person who engages in business as a broker of
travel services, and who arranges for transportation, tours, lodging
facilities, food, entertainment, and other similar accommodations or related
services.



 



   Typesetter means any person who, as a typesetter, compositor,
typographer, or type founder, engages in the business of setting type for
another by hand, cold type process, hot metal process, photographic process,
or any other similar mechanical or photochemical "type assembly" process.



 



   Wire Terminator means any person who engages in the business of
connecting components and circuits of electronic panels of another configured
wiring by means of fully automatic equipment.



 



   As used in this section, the term "gross receipts" includes all
receipts included by the provisions of Subsection (a) of Section 21.00 of
this article.  In the case of persons acting as agents or brokers for
another person, the term gross receipts includes and excludes, respectively,
those receipts that are included and excluded under Subdivision 6. of
Subsection (c) of Section 21.49, Professions and Occupations; provided,
however, that with regard to a person engaged in business as a Travel Agency
the cost of transportation, tours, lodging facilities, food, entertainment,
and other similar accommodations or services shall be deemed to be the legal
obligation of the recipient.



 



 



SEC. 21.49.  GROSS RECEIPTS FUND CLASS 9.



   (Added by Ord. No. 178,101, Eff. 1/9/07.)



 



   For every person engaged in business conducting Auto Parks, Health
Maintenance Organizations, Any Trade, Calling, Occupation, Vocation,
Profession or other means of livelihood, as an independent contractor and not
an employee of another, and not specifically taxed by other provisions of
this article, Tax Rate F, as set forth in Section 21.33(f), shall be
applicable.



 



   (a)   AUTO PARK.  Auto Park means engaged in the business of
conducting any automobile parking place, storage lot or storage place where
motor vehicles are parked or stored, and a charge is made directly or
indirectly for the parking or storage.



 



   (b)   HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS.  Health Maintenance
Organization means engaged in business arranging for the provision of health
care services to subscribers or enrollees, or to pay for or to reimburse any
part of the cost for those services, in return for a prepaid or periodic
charge paid by or on behalf of the subscribers or enrollees.



 



   1.   For the purposes of this section, gross receipts of a Health
Maintenance Organization, which are attributable to a place of business
within the City, shall be apportioned by using the total cost method to
determine the amount of gross receipts that are subject to tax.  The total
cost method uses a ratio to derive a percentage that is multiplied by the
total gross receipts.  The numerator of the ratio is the total in-City
costs.  The denominator of the ratio is the sum of the total in-City costs
and the total out-of-City costs.  The percentage derived by dividing the
numerator by the denominator is multiplied by the total gross receipts to
determine the amount of gross receipts that are subject to tax.  Total costs
shall include a Health Maintenance Organization's payroll and related costs,
property and related costs, and contract health care provider costs, incurred
within and without the City.



 



   2.   The apportionment formula set forth in Subdivision 1. shall be
applicable to all tax years not barred by the statute of limitations on
January 1, 1998.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, no person shall be entitled
to a refund for any tax year prior to 1998, due to the application of the
apportionment formula set forth in Subdivision 1.  In computing any person's
tax liability due for tax years prior to 1998, offsets of applicable credits
not barred by the statute of limitations shall be allowed before determining
the total tax due.



 



   3.   The Director of Finance shall levy an assessment pursuant to
Section 21.16 of this article in the amount of the underpayment against any
person who has underpaid tax for any tax year prior to 1998, to which the
apportionment formula set forth in Subdivision 1. is applicable.



 



   4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 21.05 of this Code,
no penalty shall apply, and interest shall accrue at the rate equal to the
annualized rate of return on the general pool earned by the City Treasurer
for the calendar year prior to the tax year involved, on any underpayment
described in Subdivision 3.



 



   5.   No interest described in Subdivision 4. shall accrue during the
period commencing on January 1, 1997, and ending on June 30, 1998.



 



   6.   Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 21.05 of this Code,
the tax under this section for the 1998 tax year shall not be delinquent
until July 1, 1998, and prior to that date, no penalty shall apply and no
interest shall accrue.



 



   (c)   PROFESSIONS AND OCCUPATIONS.



 



   1.   Professions and Occupations means a person engaged in any
trade, calling, occupation, vocation, profession or other means of
livelihood, as an independent contractor and not as an employee of another,
and not specifically taxed by other provisions of this article.



 



   2.   A person engaged in more than one trade, calling, occupation,
vocation, profession or other means of livelihood embraced within this
section shall consolidate all gross receipts and shall be issued one
registration certificate covering all these activities.  Any person engaged
in any activities embraced within this section, in addition to activities
covered by any other section of this article, shall obtain separate
registration certificates for the activities covered by those other sections.



 



   3.   As used in this section, the term "gross receipts" does not
include:



 



   (i)   Receipts from a trade, calling, occupation, vocation,
profession or other means of livelihood, which this City is prohibited from
taxing under the Constitution or laws of the United States, or under the
Constitution or laws of the State of California;



 



   (ii)   Receipts of community chests, funds, foundations or
corporations organized and operated for religious, hospital or charitable
purposes, not conducted for profit and no part of the net earnings of which
inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual;



 



   (iii)   Receipts of non-profit educational institutions of
collegiate grade, defined here to mean institutions incorporated as colleges
or seminaries under the laws of the State of California, which require for
regular admission, the completion of a four-year high school course, or its
equivalent, and which confer upon their graduates at least one academic or
professional degree, based on a course of at least four years in liberal arts
and sciences, or on a course of at least three years in professional studies
such as law, theology, education, medicine, pharmacy, architecture, fine
arts, commerce or journalism; receipts of non-profit secondary schools which
are duly accredited by the University of California; and receipts of
non-profit elementary schools in which instruction is given to students in
the pre-primary and primary grades in the several branches of studies
required to be taught in the public schools of the State of California;



 



   (iv)   Receipts of Rotary, Kiwanis and Lions Clubs, non-profit
automobile clubs, Chambers of Commerce, and other community service
organizations; also receipts of trade associations such as Merchants Plumbers
Association, Merchants and Manufacturers Association and labor organizations;



 



   (v)   Receipts of:



 



   a.   Railroad companies including street railways, defined here to
include interurban electric railways;



 



   b.   Sleeping car, dining car, drawing-room car, and palace car
companies, refrigerator, oil, stock, fruit and other car-loaning and other
car companies operating upon railroads in this City;



 



   c.   Companies doing express business on any railroad, steamboat,
vessel in this City;



 



   d.   Telegraph and telephone companies;



 



   e.   Companies engaged in the transmission or sale of gas or
electricity.



 



   (vi)   Receipts of persons acting as agents or brokers for other
persons to be paid over to those other persons, or to pay for those other
persons' legal obligations, or as reimbursements for sums advanced by the
agent for those other persons' legal obligations, or to be invested on behalf
of those other persons.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, however, the term
"gross receipts" includes but is not limited to:



 



   Receipts of any person received as commissions or fees earned, or
charges of any character made or compensation of any character received, for
the performance of any service by that person or any of that person's
employees;



 



   Receipts of any person received as partial or full compensation or
reimbursement for salaries, payroll taxes, free benefits and any and all
similar expenses for persons who are employees of that person under the
criteria set forth in Division 4, Part 1, Chapter 2, Article 2 of the Labor
Code of the State of California as effective on July 1, 1976.



 



   Receipts of any person received as partial or full compensation or
reimbursement for equipment, supplies, utilities, or other items or services
acquired by that person in that person's name and used or consumed in the
performance of services subject to tax under this section.



 



   Provided, further, that any agent or broker dealing in stocks or other
similar written instruments evidencing the right to participate in the assets
of any business, or dealing in bonds or other evidences of indebtedness, who
also deals in that property as a principal, shall include the gross receipts
by which the tax is measured the amount of his trading profits resulting from
these dealings.  No deduction from receipts attributable to trading as a
principal shall be made unless the deduction is provided for under Subsection
(a) of Section 21.00 of this article.



 



   (vii)   Receipts from the publication and sale of newspapers,
magazines and other periodicals regularly issued at average intervals not
exceeding three months.  The exclusion contained in this paragraph shall
apply only to business tax periods commencing on or after January 1, 1984.



 



   (viii)   Receipts derived by a radio or television studio, station
or network business from the production or broadcasting of local or network
radio or television programs or advertising materials, including but not
limited to the furnishing of services, program elements or facilities in
connection with the production or broadcasting; provided, however, that
nothing in this paragraph shall exempt any person from the tax imposed under
Section 21.109 or exclude from the measure of the tax any receipts derived by
any person from the operation of a television system where the viewing
audience pays a fee to view the broadcast; provided, further, that nothing in
this paragraph shall be construed as entitling any studio, station or network
business to engage in a business subject to tax under Section 21.42,
Wholesale Sales, or Section 21.47, Retail Sales, or Section 21.46, Personal
Property Rental, without paying the tax required in those sections.  The
exclusion contained in this paragraph shall apply only to business tax
periods commencing on or after January 1, 1984.



 



   (ix)   Receipts of a person acting as a real estate salesman as that
term is defined in Section 10132 of the California Business and Professions
Code.



 



   (x)   Receipts (whether considered in total or measured by cost of
operations in the City or any other proxy) of a mutual fund that is
registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (15 U.S.C. §
80a-1 to 80b-2), as an open-end management investment company provided that
it qualifies as a Regulated Investment Company under Subchapter M of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (26 U.S.C. § 851) (the "IRC"). 
However, Receipts of a mutual fund that fails to qualify under Subchapter M
or of a mutual fund that receives more than ten percent of its gross income
from other than qualifying sources as described in section 851(b)(2) of the
IRC shall not be excluded under this paragraph.  The exemption for qualified
mutual funds contained in this paragraph shall apply in full only to business
tax periods commencing on or after January 1, 2014, and shall be phased in as
follows:  For business tax periods commencing on or after January 1, 2012,
and before January 1, 2013, said Receipts shall be taxed at 2/3 of the rate
set forth in Section 21.33(f), and for business tax periods commencing on or
after January 1, 2013, and before January 1, 2014, said Receipts shall be
taxed at 1/3 of the rate set forth in Section 21.33(f).  (Added by Ord. No.
181,951, Eff. 1/8/12.)



 



   4.   When the gross receipts are derived from or attributable to
activities engaged in within and without the City, gross receipts shall be
allocated in a manner that is fairly calculated to determine the amount of
gross receipts derived from or attributable to engaging in business in the
City.  This allocation shall be made on the basis of payroll, value and
situs of tangible property, general expense, or by reference to any of these
or other factors, or by another method of allocation that will fairly
determine the amount of gross receipts derived from or attributable to
engaging in business in the City.  Gross receipts derived from isolated or
occasional transactions at places outside the City but within the State of
California, where the registrant is not regularly engaged in a course of
business transactions shall be deemed to be gross receipts derived from
engaging in business in the City.  Gross receipts derived from or
attributable to sources within this City include:  (a) gross receipts from
tangible or intangible property located or having situs in this City; and
(b), when not contrary to law, gross receipts from any activities carried on
in this City regardless of whether carried on in interstate, intrastate or
foreign commerce.



 



   5.   Allocation formulae designed to carry into effect the purpose
of this subsection shall be adopted by the Director of Finance by rules and
regulations.  The Director of Finance is hereby authorized, in the
application to individual cases of the rules and regulations and the formulae
they contain, to make any modifications in formulae that may be necessary to
carry out the intent of this subsection.  If the Director of Finance
reallocates gross receipts upon his or her examination of any return, he or
she shall, upon the written request of the registrant, disclose to him or her
the basis upon which the reallocation has been made.



 



 



SEC. 21.50.  TAXATION OF MEDICAL MARIJUANA COLLECTIVES.



   (Added by Ord. No. 181,638, Eff. 4/18/11.)



 



   (a)   No registration certificate or permit issued under the
provisions of Article 1 or Article 1.5 of Chapter 2 of this Code, or the
payment of any tax required under the provisions of Article 1 or Article 1.5
of Chapter 2 of this Code shall be construed as authorizing the conduct or
continuance of any illegal business or of a legal business in an illegal
manner.  Nothing in this section implies or authorizes that any activity
connected with the distribution or possession of cannabis is legal unless
otherwise authorized and allowed by California and federal law.  Nothing in
this Section shall be applied or construed as authorizing the sale of
marijuana.



 



   (b)   Every person engaged in operating or otherwise conducting a
medical marijuana collective that attests under penalty of law to compliance
with Proposition D and not otherwise specifically taxed by other business tax
provisions of this Chapter, shall pay a business tax of $60.00 for each
$1,000.00 of gross receipts or fractional part thereof.  No new business tax
registration certificates shall be issued for any medical marijuana
collective business activity.  Any medical marijuana collective that does
not attest to compliance with Proposition D shall not be taxed under any
Section of this Article for any medical marijuana collective business
activity for tax year 2016 and forward.  It shall be the burden of the
medical marijuana collective to determine and accurately represent to the
Office of Finance whether it complies with Proposition D.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 184,135, Eff. 1/22/16.)



 



   (c)   For purposes of this section, a "medical marijuana collective"
means any activity regulated or permitted by Article 5.1 of this Code or
Health and Safety Code sections 11362.5 et seq., that involves planting,
cultivating, harvesting, transporting, dispensing, delivering, providing,
manufacturing, compounding, converting, processing, preparing, storing,
packaging, or testing any part of the marijuana plant for medical purposes.



 



   (d)   For purposes of this section, "gross receipts" includes all
amounts that would be considered gross receipts under section 21.00,
including without limitation:



 



   (i)   Membership dues;



 



   (ii)   The value of in-kind contributions;



 



   (iii)   Reimbursements provided by members, regardless of form; and



 



   (iv)   Anything else of value obtained by a medical marijuana
collective.



 



   (e)   All taxpayers subject to this section must pay the full tax
imposed by this section regardless of any rebate, exemption, incentive, or
other reduction set forth elsewhere in the Municipal Code, except as required
by California or Federal Law.  No provision in the Municipal Code can lower
the tax rate set forth in this section or otherwise reduce the amount of
taxes paid hereunder unless the provision specifically states that the
reduction applies.



 



   (f)   The City Council may impose the tax authorized by this section
at a lower rate and may establish exemptions, incentives, or other reductions
as otherwise allowed by the Charter and California law.  No action by the
Council under this paragraph shall prevent it from later increasing the tax
or removing any exemption, incentive, or reduction and restoring the maximum
tax specified in this section.



 



   (g)   Every medical marijuana collective taxed by this section shall
remit with its annual renewal of business taxes an affidavit in a form
approved by the Director of Finance attesting to its compliance with
Proposition D and such affidavit shall be subject to public disclosure.  Any
person who makes a false statement or representation in the affidavit is
guilty of a misdemeanor.  An updated business tax registration certificate
in a form approved by the Director of Finance, further clarifying that such
certificate is not a permit to operate a business, shall be issued to all
medical marijuana collectives subject to tax as set forth in Section
21.50(b).  All medical marijuana collective business tax registration
certificates in their current form shall be invalid effective March 31,
2016.  A medical marijuana collective that remitted its annual payment of
business taxes in 2016, before the effective date of this ordinance shall,
before March 31, 2016, complete the affidavit attesting to its compliance
with Proposition D.  (Added by Ord. No. 184,135, Eff. 1/22/16.)



 



   (h)   It shall be a misdemeanor for any person operating a medical
marijuana collective as defined by Section 21.50(c) to maintain or display a
business tax registration certificate for any classification other than that
set forth in Section 21.50(b) for medical marijuana collective business
activity or to maintain or display an expired, suspended or otherwise invalid
business tax registration certificate.  (Added by Ord. No. 184,135, Eff.
1/22/16.)



 



 



SEC. 21.51.  TAXATION OF CANNABIS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 184,841, Eff. 4/4/17.)



 



[Editor's note: Section enacted pursuant to Proposition M, adopted by the
voters at the election on March 7, 2017.]



 



   Nothing in this Section shall be construed as requiring the City to
allow, permit, license, authorize, or otherwise regulate cannabis, cannabis
products or any business related to cannabis and/or cannabis products.



 



   (a)   For the purpose of this Section, the following words and
phrases shall be defined as follows:



 



   1.   "Cannabis" shall means all parts of the plant Cannabis sativa
Linnaeus, Cannabis indica, or Cannabis ruderalis, whether growing or not; the
seeds thereof; the resin, whether crude or purified, extracted from any part
of the plant; and every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or
preparation of the plant, its seeds, resin, separated resin, the mature
stalks of the plant, fiber produced from the stalks, oil or cake made from
the seeds of the plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative,
mixture, or preparation of the mature stalks (except the resin extracted
therefrom), fiber, oil, or cake, or the sterilized seed of the plant which is
incapable of germination, or industrial hemp, as defined by Section 11018.5
of the Health and Safety Code.



 



   2.   "Cannabis products" shall mean any product that includes
cannabis that has undergone a process whereby the plant material has been
transformed into a concentrate or such other form in order to enhance or
deliver the cannabinoid active ingredient.



 



   3.   "Cultivating" shall mean to plant, grow, harvest, dry, cure,
grade, or trim cannabis.



 



   4.   "Gross receipts" shall have the same meaning as set forth in
Section 21.00(a) of this Article and shall include without limitation,
membership dues, value of in kind contributions, reimbursements, the amount
of any tax imposed by the state, county or rapid transit district whether
imposed upon the retailer or the consumer, and any other property received by
the business in its ordinary course.



 



   5.   "License" shall consist of (i) a state license issued under
Division 10 of the California Business and Professions Code, Chapter 3.5 of
Division 8 of the California Business and Professions Code, or such other
applicable cannabis related provisions under state law, and (ii) any such
other applicable City authorization, permit, or license (not including a
business tax registration certificate which shall not be construed as a
permit in any way).



 



   6.   "Manufacturing" shall mean to compound, blend, extract, infuse,
or otherwise make, process, or prepare cannabis or cannabis products.



 



   7.   "Testing" shall mean to perform a test of cannabis and/or
cannabis products in a testing laboratory that is accredited by an
accrediting body that is independent from all other persons involved in
commercial or medical cannabis, and registered with the State Department of
Public Health.



 



   8.   "Testing laboratory" shall mean a facility, entity, or site in
the City of Los Angeles that offers or performs testing.



 



   9.   "Transporting" shall mean to transfer cannabis and/or cannabis
products from the location of one person with a license to the location of
another person with a license.



 



   (b)   For purposes of this Section, the business tax to be imposed
shall be as follows:



 



   1.   Every person with a license that is engaged in business of
conducting the sale of cannabis and/or cannabis products shall pay a business
tax of $100.00 for each $1,000.00 of gross receipts or fractional part
thereof.  The sale of medical cannabis shall be taxed as provided under
Section 21.52 of this Article.



 



   2.   Every person with a license that is engaged in business of
transporting cannabis and/or cannabis products shall pay a business tax of
$10.00 for each $1,000.00 of gross receipts or fractional part thereof.



 



   3.   Every person with a license that is engaged in business of
testing cannabis and/or cannabis products shall pay a business tax of $10.00
for each $1,000.00 of gross receipts or fractional part thereof.



 



   4.   Every person with a license that is engaged in business of
researching cannabis and/or cannabis products shall pay a business tax of
$10.00 for each $1,000.00 of gross receipts or fractional part thereof.



 



   5.   Every person with a license that is engaged in business of
manufacturing or cultivating cannabis and/or cannabis products shall pay a
business tax of $20.00 for each $1,000.00 of gross receipts or fractional
part thereof.



 



   6.   Every person with a license that is engaged in business
relating to the commercialization of cannabis and/or cannabis products not
specifically taxed under this Section shall pay a business tax of $20.00 for
each $1,000.00 of gross receipts or fractional part thereof.



 



   (c)   The Office of Finance shall file quarterly reports summarizing
the amount of business taxes collected from the persons described in
subsection (b) of this Section with the City Council, Mayor, Controller, and
City Administrative Officer beginning April 1, 2018.



 



   (d)   All business taxes shall be due and payable quarterly as
provided under Section 21.04(b) of this Article beginning July 1, 2018, which
shall include any taxes owed from January 1, 2018, and then monthly as
provided under Section 21.04(c) of this Article beginning July 1, 2019.



 



   (e)   The Office of Finance shall prescribe and implement a
reasonable process, including set times and secure conditions, whereby every
person subject to business tax under this Section is allowed to pay, in cash,
the amount of business tax reported on their written statement, as prescribed
under Section 21.14 of this Article.



 



   (f)   The Director of Finance may prescribe such additional
requirements or conditions, as provided under Section 21.15(h) of this
Article, when granting a business tax registration certificate under Section
21.08 of this Article with respect to a person subject to this Section, which
may include an affidavit of compliance and/or proof of license.  Any person
who makes a false statement or misrepresentation in any required affidavit
under this Section is guilty of a misdemeanor.



 



   (g)   It shall be a misdemeanor for any person operating a
non-medical cannabis business to maintain or display a business tax
registration certificate for any classification other than that set forth
herein for non-medical cannabis business activity or to maintain or display
an expired, suspended or otherwise invalid business tax registration
certificate.



 



   (h)   No business tax registration certificate issued for purposes
of this Section or the payment of any tax required under this Section shall
be construed as authorizing the conduct or continuance of any illegal
business or of a legal business in an illegal manner.  Nothing in this
Section implies or authorizes that any activity in connection with cannabis
and/or cannabis products is legal unless otherwise authorized by federal and
any other applicable law.



 



   (i)   Every person subject to this Section must pay the full tax
imposed by this Section regardless of any rebate, exemption, incentive, or
other reduction set forth elsewhere in the Municipal Code, except as required
by state or federal law.  No provision in the Municipal Code shall lower the
tax rate set forth in this Section or otherwise reduce the amount of taxes
paid hereunder unless the provision specifically states that the reduction
applies.



 



   (j)   The City Council may impose the tax authorized by this Section
at a lower rate and may establish exemptions, incentives or other reductions
as otherwise allowed by the Charter and state law.  No action by the Council
under this paragraph shall prevent it from later increasing the tax or
removing any exemption, incentive, or reduction and restoring up to the
maximum tax specified in this Section.



 



   (k)   The provisions of this Section shall be effective January 1,
2018.



 



 



SEC. 21.52.  TAXATION OF MEDICAL CANNABIS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 184,841, Eff. 4/4/17.)



 



[Editor's note: Section enacted pursuant to Proposition M, adopted by the
voters at the election on March 7, 2017.]



 



   Nothing in this Section shall be construed as requiring the City to
allow, permit, license, authorize, or otherwise regulate medical cannabis or
any business related to medical cannabis.



 



   (a)   For the purpose of this Section, the following words and
phrases shall be defined as follows:



 



   1.   "Cannabis" shall have the same meaning as set forth in Section
21.51(a)(1) of this Article.



 



   2.   "Cannabis products" shall have the same meaning as set forth in
Section 21.51(a)(2) of this Article.



 



   3.   "Gross receipts" shall have the same meaning as set forth in
Section 21.51(a)(4) of this Article.



 



   4.   "License" shall have the same meaning as set forth in Section
21.51(a)(5) of this Article.



 



   5.   "Medical cannabis" shall mean a product containing cannabis or
cannabis products sold for use by medical cannabis patients in California
pursuant to the Compassionate Use Act of 1996, found at Section 11362.5 of
the California Health and Safety Code.



 



   (b)   For purposes of this Section, the business tax to be imposed
shall be as follows:



 



   1.   Every person with a license engaged in business of conducting
the sale of medical cannabis shall pay a business tax of $50.00 for each
$1,000.00 of gross receipts or fractional part thereof.



 



   (c)   The Office of Finance shall file quarterly reports summarizing
the amount of business taxes collected from the persons described in
subsection (b) of this Section with the City Council, Mayor, Controller, and
City Administrative Officer beginning April 1, 2018.



 



   (d)   All business taxes shall be due and payable quarterly as
provided under Section 21.04(b) of this Article beginning July 1, 2018, which
shall include any taxes owed from January 1, 2018, and then monthly as
provided under Section 21.04(c) of this Article beginning July 1, 2019.



 



   (e)   The Office of Finance shall prescribe and implement a
reasonable process, including set times and secure conditions, whereby every
person subject to business tax under this Section is allowed to pay, in cash,
the amount of business tax reported on their written statement, as prescribed
under Section 21.04 of this Article.



 



   (f)   The Director of Finance may prescribe such additional
requirements or conditions, as provided under Section 21.15(h), as may be
necessary when granting a business tax registration certificate under Section
21.08 of this Article with respect to a business subject to this Section,
which may include an affidavit of compliance and proof of License.  Any
person who makes a false statement or misrepresentation in any required
affidavit under this Section is guilty of a misdemeanor.



 



   (g)   It shall be a misdemeanor for any person operating a medical
cannabis business to maintain or display a business tax registration
certificate for any classification other than that set forth herein for
medical cannabis business activity or to maintain or display an expired,
suspended or otherwise invalid business tax registration certificate.



 



   (h)   No business tax registration certificate issued for purposes
of this Section or the payment of any tax required under this Section shall
be construed as authorizing the conduct or continuance of any illegal
business or of a legal business in an illegal manner.  Nothing in this
Section implies or authorizes that any activity in connection with cannabis
and/or cannabis products is legal unless otherwise authorized by federal and
any other applicable law.



 



   (i)   Every person subject to this Section must pay the full tax
imposed by this Section regardless of any rebate, exemption, incentive, or
other reduction set forth elsewhere in the Municipal Code, except as required
by state or federal law.  No provision in the Municipal Code shall lower the
tax rate set forth in this Section or otherwise reduce the amount of taxes
paid hereunder unless the provision specifically states that the reduction
applies.



 



   (j)   The City Council may impose the tax authorized by this Section
at a lower rate and may establish exemptions, incentives or other reductions
as otherwise allowed by the Charter and state law.  No action by the Council
under this paragraph shall prevent it from later increasing the tax or
removing any exemption, incentive, or reduction and restoring up to the
maximum tax specified in this Section.



 



   (k)   The provisions of this Section shall be effective January 1,
2018, at which time the language of this Section shall govern in the event of
any conflict between this Section and Section 21.50 regarding taxation of
medical marijuana collectives.



 



 



SEC. 21.53.  AMUSEMENT PARK.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 140,833, Eff. 9/28/70, Oper. 1/1/71.)



 



   For every person engaged in the business of conducting an amusement
park, the tax shall be $923.83 per quarter.  (Amended by Ord. No. 166,204,
Eff. 10/11/90, Oper. 1/1/91.)



 



   For the purpose of this section, an amusement park shall mean any
grounds or enclosure wherein concessions and adult rides of a permanent
nature and having a fixed location are situated and shows or exhibitions are
presented, shown, staged, or offered to the public.



 



   For the purpose of this section, adult rides shall be defined to
include any Ferris wheel, scenic railway, merry-go-round, swing, or similar
device offered for the amusement of the public for a fee or charge and not of
a miniature type intended primarily for the use of children; and, concession
shall be defined to include any permanent booth or stand or any space, court
or area at or in which any game or test of skill, science or amusement is
offered and at or in which the public is permitted or invited to participate
for a fee or charge. Concessions shall not include coin-operated games of
skills, science or amusement.



 



 



SEC. 21.55.  AUCTIONEER.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 166,204, Eff. 10/11/90, Oper. 1/1/91.)



 



   For every individual person who as an employee or as an independent
contractor engages in the business of auctioneer, the tax shall be $886.88
per year or fractional part thereof.



 



 



SEC. 21.56.  AUTO PARK



   (Repealed by Ord. No. 178,101, Eff. 1/9/07.)



 



 



SEC. 21.59.  BASEBALL, FOOTBALL, ETC.



   (Repealed by Ord. No. 178,101, Eff. 1/9/07.)



 



 



SEC. 21.62.  BILLIARDS, ETC.



 



   For every person engaged in the business of conducting or operating any
pool or billiard room, or who for a fee or charge of any kind lets to players
the use of any pool table, billiard table or similar device, or who keeps any
such table or device available for such use, the tax shall be $106.43 per
year for each table or device, whether used or not, which is kept upon the
premises.  This section shall apply regardless of whether the table is
maintained as an incident to the conduct or operation of a social or athletic
club, or as an adjunct of any other private institution or activity, if a
charge is imposed for the use thereof.  (First Sentence Amended by Ord. No.
166,204, Eff. 10/11/90, Oper. 1/1/91.)



 



 



SEC. 21.63.  AMUSEMENT MACHINES.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 166,204, Eff. 10/11/90, Oper. 1/1/91.)



 



   For every person who lets or permits, upon premises over which he has
control, the use or operation of any amusement machine, device, game or
apparatus, except such machines, devices, games or apparatus as are described
and referred to in Sections 21.64 or 21.70 of this article, and the operation
or use of which results from, or is permitted or allowed by, insertion of any
coin, slug or token of value into the machine, device, game or apparatus, or
any device attached thereto, or by the payment of any fee or fees, the tax
shall be $22.17 per year or fractional part thereof for each such machine,
device, game or apparatus, whether or not such person is the owner or such
machine, device, game or apparatus.



 



 



SEC. 21.64.  COIN-OPERATED PHONOGRAPHS AND MUSIC MACHINES.



 



   (a)   For every person who lets or permits, upon premises over which
he has control, the use of any coin-operated phonograph, television
instrument, radio or other device for the playing or furnishing of music or
other programs, the operation of which results from the insertion of a coin,
slug or token of value, whether placed or inserted directly into such
machine, or into a device causing its operation, the tax shall be $22.17 per
year or fractional part thereof for each such machine or device, whether or
not such person is the owner of such machine or device.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 166,204, Eff. 10/11/90, Oper. 1/1/91.)



 



   (b)   The tax imposed under this section shall not apply to a person
letting or permitting the use of any such device in any room used solely for
dwelling purposes and which was installed for the use of the occupants
thereof; but a person engaged in the business of maintaining or operating any
such coin-operated machine installed for use by occupants of dwelling
quarters, shall be taxed under the provisions of Sec. 21.65.1.



 



 



SEC. 21.65.  VENDING MACHINES.



   (Repealed by Ord. No. 178,101, Eff. 1/9/07.)



 



 



SEC. 21.65.1.  COIN-OPERATED SCALES AND SERVICE MACHINES.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 178,101, Eff. 1/9/07.)



 



   (a)   For every person engaged in the business of operating,
maintaining or letting the use of any coin operated scales, weighing device,
baggage checking device, radio, television, or any other coin-operated
machine or device, and not otherwise specifically taxed or specifically
exempted from tax under any other section of this article, whether or not of
the same general character as those specifically enumerated here, which
renders any service or furnishes any program or information in return for a
coin or token of value and is installed or maintained for profit or gain, the
tax shall be $22.17 per year or fractional part for each machine or device.



 



   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, each
coin-operated machine or device described in Subsection (a) that is operated,
maintained or used within this City shall have conspicuously stamped upon it
or affixed on it for identification purposes, the name and address, Business
Tax Registration Certification number, and the telephone number, if any, of
the owner or operator.  The identification shall be provided by the owner or
operator of the machine or device, at his or her expense, notwithstanding the
provisions of Section 21.06(b) to the contrary, and shall be removed from,
the machine or device by the owner or operator when the authority to use the
machine or device is transferred to another person, whether by sale, lease,
license or otherwise.



 



   (c)   Exemptions.  Nothing contained in this section shall be
construed to require the payment of any business tax for any coin-operated
machine or device used in the operation of any automatic telephone, or any
coin box for the receipt of fares on any carrier, or any coin receiving
device the use of which is merely incidental to the conduct of a business
operating under any franchise or specifically taxed by other provisions of
this article.



 



 



SEC. 21.70.  BOWLING ALLEY, SKEE-BALL SHUFFLEBOARD, ETC.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 166,204, Eff. 10/11/90, Oper. 1/1/91.)



 



   For every person engaged in the business of operating any bowling
alley, ping-pong court, skee-ball machine, alley or court, or any
shuffleboard table or court, or who, in the conduct of any business, uses,
operates or maintains any such alley, court, table or machine, or rents or
lets the use of any such alley, court, table or machine for the purpose of
being used in playing any of the aforementioned games, the tax shall be
$54.99 per year or fractional part thereof for each such alley, court, table
or machine, provided that nothing in this section or in this article shall
require the payment of a tax for engaging in the activities set forth in this
section when engaged in by a bona fide social club which is organized for
social purposes and maintains or operates the facilities required for the
members of the club as an incident to the purpose of the club and not as a
primary purpose thereof.



 



 



SEC. 21.74.  CIRCUSES.



 



   (a)   “CIRCUS” shall mean an exhibition or entertainment at
which feats of horsemanship, acrobatic feats and trained, or wild animals are
exhibited or displayed in the City of Los Angeles to which exhibition or
entertainment an admission fee is charged, and which exhibition or
entertainment is conducted by a person having no regular established place of
business in the City of Los Angeles for the exhibition thereof.



 



   (b)   (Amended by Ord. No. 166,204, Eff. 10/11/90, Oper. 1/1/91.) 
For every person engaged in the business of conducting a circus or similar
exhibition, the tax shall be:



 



   For a seating capacity of 11,000 or more, $6,652.00 for the first day,
and $3,548.00 for each additional day;



 



   For a seating capacity of 8,000 or more, and less than 11,000,
$4,434.00 for the first day, and $2,661.00 for each additional day;



 



   For a seating capacity of 5,000 or more, and less than 8,000, $2,661.00
for the first day, and $1,552.00 for each additional day;



 



   For a seating capacity of 1,000 or more, and less than 5,000, $1,552.00
for the first day, and $887.00 for each additional day;



 



   For a seating capacity of less than 1,000 and more than 300, $222.00
for the first day, and $133.00 for each additional day;



 



   For a seating capacity of 300 or less, $133.00 for the first day, and
$89.00 for each additional day.



 



   (c)   Notwithstanding the provisions of Subsection (b), for every
person conducting a circus or similar exhibition where the principal
performance takes place in a permanent structure such as a theatre, arena,
stadium, auditorium, amphitheatre or similar structure, the tax shall be
$887.00 per day.  (Amended by Ord. No. 166,204, Eff. 10/11/90, Oper. 1/1/91.)



 



 



SEC. 21.75.  SIDE SHOWS, CARNIVALS, CONCESSIONS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 178,101, Eff. 1/9/07.)



 



   (a)   For every person engaged in the business of conducting a side
show, or an after show to the circus, where a separate fee of $0.75 or less,
is charged, received or collected, the tax shall be $44.34 per day; where the
fee charged, received or collected amounts to more than $0.75, but less than
$1.50, the tax shall be $88.69 per day; where the fee charged, received or
collected, is $1.50 or more the tax shall be $177.38 per day.



 



   (b)   For every person operating or conducting any carnival, the tax
shall be $88.69 for each concession for the first day of the carnival and
$44.34 for each concession for each additional day.



 



   (c)   For the purpose of this section, a "carnival" means any fair,
festival or like activity of a temporary nature having a concession or
concessions.  A "concession" is defined to include any booth or stand or any
space, court or area at, or in which, any game or test of skill, science or
amusement is offered and at or in which the public is permitted or invited to
participate for a fee, charge or donation.



 



   (d)   When the carnival is sponsored solely by a religious,
charitable, educational, civic, veteran or other non-profit benevolent
organization, or by a group of these organizations, the organization or group
shall be deemed to be the person operating or conducting the carnival. 
Provided, however, that in the event any person other than this organization
or group receives any proceeds or personal gain or profit by operating or
participating in the operation of any concession in, at or adjacent to the
carnival on behalf of himself or herself or on behalf of any person other
than the sponsoring organization or organizations, that person shall be
deemed to be the person operating or conducting the carnival.



 



   (e)   In the case of more than one non-sponsoring operator or
conductor, each shall be jointly and severally liable and responsible for
making application for the business tax registration certificate and for
payment of the business tax for the carnival; provided, however, if one
non-sponsoring operator or conductor has also rented, leased or otherwise
furnished for use in the carnival equipment as concession booths or stands,
or games or tests of skill, science or amusement, that person shall be deemed
to be the operator or conductor of the carnival; and if more than one
non-sponsoring operator or conductor has rented, leased or furnished
equipment to the carnival, that person whom the Director of Finance, after
full investigation of all the facts, determines to be the one who has leased,
rented or furnished the greater amount of equipment shall be deemed to be the
operator or conductor of the carnival.



 



   (f)   Where the operator or conductor of the carnival is a
religious, charitable, educational, civic, veteran or other non-profit
benevolent organization, or a group of these organizations, and the net
proceeds of the carnival are to be used exclusively for religious,
charitable, benevolent, educational or civic purposes, the operator or
conductor shall be entitled to a tax exempt registration certificate upon
application and qualification for the certificate as provided in this
subsection.



 



   The application for this exemption shall be made in the manner provided
in Section 21.22 of this article not less than 30 calendar days prior to the
starting date of the carnival; provided however, an application for this
exemption, which is not filed within the time period prescribed here, may be
accepted by the Director of Finance upon a showing that the failure to file a
timely application was not a result of an intentional disregard of the
prescribed statutory provisions.  The Board of Police Commissioners shall
investigate as provided in Section 21.22 and shall forward its report to the
Director of Finance at least 16 calendar days prior to the starting date of
the carnival in all cases where the application has been timely filed;
otherwise the report shall be forwarded within 16 calendar days subsequent to
the filing of the application for the exemption.  If the report certifies
that the sponsorship of the carnival and the use to be made of the net
proceeds meet the requirements of this subsection for a tax exempt
registration certificate, and if all other charges, fees and taxes required
to be paid to the Director of Finance by reason of the operation of the
carnival or activities conducted in connection with the carnival have been
paid, the Director of Finance shall issue a tax exempt registration
certificate.  Any application not reported upon by the Board of Police
Commissioners within the time limits prescribed here shall be deemed to be
approved and the Director of Finance may issue the tax exempt certificate in
lieu of payment of the tax.



 



   If at any time the carnival or any part of it is conducted in a manner
which, had it been disclosed in the application for the exempt certificate
approved by the Board of Police Commissioners, would not have entitled the
organization or organizations conducting the carnival to a tax exempt
registration certificate, or if the net proceeds from the carnival are not
used for the purposes stated in this subsection, if any tax exempt
registration certificate so issued shall be void and the full amount of the
business tax for the carnival shall be immediately due and payable to the
City, and no other tax exempt registration certificate for a carnival shall
be issued to the sponsoring organization or organizations until the tax has
been paid.



 



   (g)   No business tax registration certificate and no business tax
shall be required for any religious, charitable, educational or other
non-profit benevolent institution to operate or conduct a carnival held
within and upon buildings or grounds owned or occupied by the institution
where none of the rides set forth in Section 21.94 are operated in, at or
adjacent to the carnival and the concessions of the carnival are operated
exclusively by and for the entertainment or benefit of the members of that
institution and the net proceeds derived from the concessions are not used
for the purpose of private gain to any individual but are used wholly for the
benefit of the organization or for charitable or benevolent purposes;
provided, that no advertising for the carnival is placed, exhibited, shown,
or otherwise permitted outside the premises of the buildings or grounds and
the non-member public is not invited to participate in or attend the carnival.



 



   (h)   No tax shall be required for any person conducting or
operating a carnival at any fair, festival or like activity of a temporary
nature conducting or operated by a California Agricultural District.



 



   (i)   For every person engaged in the business of conducting a
circus procession or circus parade, and not having a registration certificate
for conducting, managing or carrying on a circus within the limits of the
City of Los Angeles, the tax shall be $4,434.00 for each procession or parade.



 



 



SEC. 21.78.  COLLECTION AGENCIES.



   (Repealed by Ord. No. 178,101, Eff. 1/9/07.)



 



 



SEC. 21.79.  COMMISSION BROKERS.



   (Repealed by Ord. No. 178,101, Eff. 1/9/07.)



 



 



SEC. 21.80.  INDEPENDENT TELEMARKETING AGENCY.



   (Repealed by Ord. No. 178,101, Eff. 1/9/07.)



 



 



SEC. 21.83.  DANCE HALL.



 



   (a)   “DANCE HALL” shall mean any place where the business of
holding or conducting public dances is regularly carried on provided that
nothing in this section contained shall be deemed or construed to require the
holder of a registration certificate to conduct the business of a public
dance hall to procure any additional registration certificate to conduct a
dancing academy, provided that such dancing academy is conducted at the same
location and under the same management as the public dance hall.



 



   (b)   (Amended by Ord. No. 166,204, Eff. 10/11/90, Oper. 1/1/91.) 
For every person engaged in the business of conducting any public dance hall,
the tax shall be:



 



   For 1,000 square feet or less of dance floor area in such dance hall,
$133.05 per quarter;



 



   Over 1,000 square feet and not more than 2,000 square feet, $254.90 per
quarter;



 



   Over 2,000 square feet and not more than 3,000 square feet, $365.75 per
quarter;



 



   Over 3,000 square feet and not more than 4,000 square feet, $465.60 per
quarter;



 



   Over 4,000 square feet and not more than 5,000 square feet, $554.30 per
quarter;



 



   Over 5,000 square feet and not more than 6,000 square feet, $631.80 per
quarter;



 



   Over 6,000 square feet and not more than 7,000 square feet, $698.35 per
quarter;



 



   Over 7,000 square feet and not more than 8,000 square feet, $753.85 per
quarter;



 



   Over 8,000 square feet and not more than 9,000 square feet, $798.20 per
quarter;



 



   Over 9,000 square feet and not more than 10,000 square feet, $831.35
per quarter;



 



   Over 10,000 square feet and not more than 11, 000 square feet, $853.55
per quarter;



 



   Over 11,000 square feet, $853.55 per quarter, plus $11.00 per quarter
for each additional 1,000 square feet or fractional part thereof.



 



 



SEC. 21.85.  PUBLIC DANCE.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 166,204, Eff. 10/11/90, Oper. 1/1/91.)



 



   For every person conducting or staging any public dance, whether for
profit or not, to which the public at large is admitted or in which the
public at large is allowed to participate, the tax shall be $177.38 per day.



 



 



SEC. 21.94.  RIDES.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 174,241, Eff. 11/3/01, Oper. 1/1/01.)



 



   (a)   For every person engaged in the business of conducting or
operating a ferris wheel, scenic railway, or any ride by boat or car for the
amusement of the public, any merry-go-round, swing or similar device, the tax
shall be $443.44 per year or fractional part thereof.



 



   (b)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to the holder
of a registration certificate issued in connection with the conduct of an
amusement park under other sections of this article.



 



   (c)   No tax shall be required for any person conducting or
operating a ride at any carnival, fair, festival or like activity of a
temporary nature conducted or operated by a California Agricultural District.
(Amended by Ord. No. 178,101, Eff. 1/9/07.)



 



 



SEC. 21.98.  OFFICE COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS, ETC., RENTALS.



   (Repealed by Ord. No. 178,101, Eff. 1/9/07.)



 



 



SEC. 21.98.1.  SWAP MEET OPERATOR.



   (Repealed by Ord. No. 178,101, Eff. 1/9/07.)



 



 



SEC. 21.98.2.  ANTIQUE SHOW AND COLLECTORS’ EXCHANGE SHOW PROMOTER.



   (Repealed by Ord. No. 178,101, Eff. 1/9/07.)



 



 



SEC. 21.99.  RENTING ACCOMMODATIONS.



   (Repealed by Ord. No. 178,101, Eff. 1/9/07.)



 



 



SEC. 21.102.  LAUNDRY, CLEANING AND DYEING AGENT, COLLECTOR, LINEN SUPPLY,
SHOE REPAIR.



   (Repealed by Ord. No. 178,101, Eff. 1/9/07.)



 



 



SEC. 21.108.  MONEY LENDERS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 178,101, Eff. 1/9/07.)



 



   (a)   Subject to the exceptions stated here, for each person engaged
in the business of lending money, advancing credit or lending credit, or
arranging for the loan of money or advancing of credit or lending of credit,
for and on his or her own behalf or on behalf of any other person as
principal, agent or broker, whether security of any kind is taken for the
loan or advance or not, or purchasing or discounting or arranging for the
purchase or discounting of any obligation or evidence of money due or to
become due, whether the obligation or evidence is secured or guaranteed or
not, and whether the person so purchasing or arranging for the purchase of
items and acts mentioned above, as principal, agent or broker, the tax shall
be $2,660.63 per year.



 



   (b)   The tax imposed under the provisions of Subsection (a) shall
not apply to the business of lending money or advancing credit or arranging
for the loan of money or the advancing of credit as principal or agent, where
the obligation to repay the money lent or debt incurred or to compensate for
the advance of credit is secured by a lien on real property, or some interest
in real property; nor shall the provisions of this section apply to the
business of purchasing, either as principal or agent, any debt or evidence of
debt secured by any lien upon real property; nor shall the provisions of this
section apply to any transaction involving the purchase or sale of real
property.  All persons engaged in businesses as are described in this
subsection shall be subject to tax under Section 21.49, Professions and
Occupations.



 



   (c)   The tax imposed under the provisions of Subsection (a) shall
not apply to a person who, in the conduct of another business in the City,
engages in a business of the kind described in Subsection (a) solely with
customers or suppliers of that other business; nor shall the tax apply to a
person engaged in this type of business, whether or not the relation of
customer or supplier exists, when the person confines the business dealings
to other persons who are his employees, stand in the relation of parent or
subsidiary to him, are so constituted as to have substantially common
ownership with him or her, or are employees of any person who is his parent
or subsidiary or has substantially common ownership with him or her;
provided, however, if the other business is subject to a tax under this
article measured by gross receipts, all interest and other charges received
as a result of the activity described in Subsection (a) shall be included in
the gross receipts by which the tax elsewhere imposed by this article is
measured; and if the other business is not subject to a tax measured by gross
receipts, or if there is no other business, he or she shall pay a tax under
the provisions of Section 21.49, Professions and Occupations, for engaging in
the kind of activity described in Subsection (a).



 



 



SEC. 21.109.  MOTION PICTURE, TELEVISION AND RADIO PRODUCERS.



   (Title amended by Ord. No. 167,416, Eff. 12/27/91, Oper. 1/1/84.)



 



   (a)   (Amended by Ord. No. 167,416, Eff. 12/27/91, Oper. 1/1/84.) 
For the purposes of this section a motion picture, television, or radio
producer is a person who engages in the business of producing motion
pictures, television programs, radio programs or advertising material for
such media, including pictures or programs in which animation is used.  Said
businesses include, but are not limited to, the development of a story,
whether based on fact or fiction, the photographing of the story or program,
whether by means of photographic film, magnetic tape, or other device, the
recording of the program, and the cutting, scoring, editing, and final
preparation of the picture, program or commercial for release or viewing, and
when performed by a person engaged in the foregoing activities also includes
either or both of the following:



 



   1.   The lending by a motion picture, television, or radio producer
of the services of employees for which the producer has contracted to one or
more other producers; and



 



   2.   The furnishing of motion picture, television or radio studio
facilities to other such media producers where the facilities include, in
addition to physical equipment, the services of technicians such as
cameramen, soundman, carpenters, electricians and set decorators.



 



   Every person engaged in the business of being a motion picture,
television, or radio producer shall pay a tax in the amount provided in
Subsection (c).  The measure of the tax in each instance shall be the total
of the following sums:  the gross cost of production of motion pictures,
television programs, radio programs and advertising materials; the gross
receipts received by the producer in return for the lending of the services
of employees as described herein; and the gross receipts received by the
producer in return for the furnishing of studio facilities in the manner
described herein.



 



   (b)   Every person engaged in the business of reconstructing motion
pictures, television programs or commercials by synchronizing pictures with
sound, or making or producing sound scores, other than a sound score made or
produced by a motion picture, television or radio producer in the preparation
for release of a production, shall pay a tax measured by the gross cost of
the work done in the amount provided in Subsection (c).  (Amended by Ord.
No. 167,416, Eff. 12/27/91, Oper. 1/1/84.)



 



   (c)   The taxes imposed for the privilege of engaging in the
businesses described in this section shall be $145.00 per year or fractional
part thereof for the first  $5,000,000.00 of the measure of tax, plus $1.30
per year for each additional $1,000.00 of the measure of tax or fractional
part thereof in excess of $5,000,000.00, provided that the maximum tax shall
be $9,245.00 for all measures of tax greater than $12,000,000.00.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 181,477, Eff. 1/21/11.)



 



   (d)   Any motion picture, television, or radio producer as defined
in Subsection (a) of this section and subject to the tax imposed by this
section, shall not be subject to tax under Section 21.45 of this article for
production activity.  (Amended by Ord. No. 178,101, Eff. 1/9/07.)



 



 



SEC. 21.124.  OIL WELLS.



   (Repealed by Ord. No. 171,411, Eff. 12/22/96, Oper. 1/1/96.)



 



 



SEC. 21.141.  WAREHOUSE – STORAGE OF GOODS.



   (Repealed by Ord. No. 178,101, Eff. 1/9/07.)



 



 



SEC. 21.142.  STEVEDORES.



   (Added by Ord. No. 155,060, Eff. 5/10/81.)



 



   (a)   For every person engaged in the business of stevedoring from a
fixed place of business within the City of Los Angeles, the tax shall be
$106.43 per year or fractional part thereof, plus $8.87 per year or
fractional part thereof for each employee, plus (i) $177.38 per year or
fractional part thereof if there are more than 24 and less than 100
employees, or (ii) $302.72 per year or fractional part thereof if there are
more than 99 employees.  (Amended by Ord. No. 166,204, Eff. 10/11/90, Oper.
1/1/91.)



 



   (b)   “Stevedoring” shall mean the business of loading and
unloading cargo on and from vessels supplying and supervising labor and
supplying and operating equipment for such loading and unloading, and
performing port terminal operations such as management consulting and data
processing in connection with such loading and unloading.



 



   (c)   For the purpose of Subsection (a) of this section
“employees” shall mean the sum of the number of individuals who are
permanently employed by such person within the City of Los Angeles as of the
15th day of each of the 12 calendar months immediately preceding the due date
of the tax, divided by 12, with any remainder constituting another employee.



 



   (d)   Engaging in the business of stevedoring without a fixed place
of business within the City shall not subject any person to taxation under
the provisions of Section 21.49, defined as Professions and Occupations, of
this article.  (Amended by Ord. No. 178,101, Eff. 1/9/07.)



 



 



SEC. 21.143.  TUGBOAT AND BARGE OPERATORS.



   (Repealed by Ord. No. 178,101, Eff. 1/9/07.)



 



 



SEC. 21.147.  THEATRE.



   (Repealed by Ord. No. 178,101, Eff. 1/9/07.)



 



 



SEC. 21.166.  MERCHANDISE WHOLESALE SELLING.



   (Repealed by Ord. No. 178,101, Eff. 1/9/07.)



 



 



SEC. 21.167.  MERCHANDISE – RETAIL SELLING.



   (Repealed by Ord. No. 178,101, Eff. 1/9/07.)



 



 



SEC. 21.167.1.  SALES OF FIREARMS AND AMMUNITION.



   (Added by Ord. No. 170,729, Eff. 11/20/95. Oper. 1/1/96.)



 



   (a)   For every person selling any firearms and ammunition, the tax
shall be $106.43 per year or fractional part thereof for the first $18,000.00
or less of gross receipts, plus $5.91 per year for each additional $1,000.00
of gross receipts or fractional part thereof in excess of $18,000.00.



 



   (b)   For the purpose of this section:



 



   1.   The term “Firearms” shall be defined as any pistol,
revolver, rifle, shotgun or other device, designed to be used as a weapon,
from which a projectile is expelled through a barrel by the force of an
explosion or any other form of combustion, or any device which is capable of
being altered so as to expel a projectile in such manner.



 



   2.   The term “Ammunition” shall be defined as any projectile
designed to beexpelled through the barrel of a firearm by the force of any
explosion or other form of combustion.



 



 



SEC. 21.168.1.  OUT OF STATE SALES.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 178,101, Eff. 1/9/07.)



 



   Nothing defined in Section 21.41, as Multimedia Business, in Section
21.42, as Wholesale Sales or in Section 21.44, as Retail Sales, shall be
construed to require the inclusion in the computation of the amount of the
tax due under these sections the gross receipts of the sales of goods, which
are shipped to the purchasers of the goods by the seller to points outside of
the State of California.



 



 



SEC. 21.168.2.  SALE FOR CONVENIENCE.



 



   Unless otherwise specifically provided, the phrase “selling goods,
wares or merchandise” shall, whenever used in this article, in addition to
any other meaning established by law, be deemed to extend to and include in
its application the serving or supplying of meals for a fee or charge; but
sales of goods, wares or merchandise by persons engaged in selling such
articles shall not be considered as producing gross receipts to the extent
that such sales are for convenience. A “sale for convenience,” as used in
this section, is a sale of new goods, wares, or merchandise by a person
engaged in selling such articles to another person engaged in selling like or
similar kinds of articles.



 



   (i)   Where the primary purpose of the particular transaction of
sale is to accommodate the purchaser rather than to make a sale in the
ordinary course of business;



 



   (ii)   Where, in the particular kind of business involved, a similar
manner of dealing is frequent or customary in the circumstances under which
the particular sale is made; and



 



   (iii)   Where goods, wares or merchandise of like or similar kind
and of substantially equivalent value to that which was sold is received in
consideration.



 



   The following types of transactions are sales for convenience within
the meaning of this section when the circumstances stated in Paragraphs (i),
(ii) and (iii) are present:



 



   (1)   Transactions in which the seller conveys an article which is
in short supply, or which, under the circumstances, cannot be obtained by the
purchaser through normal sources of supply in sufficient time to permit the
purchaser to furnish an equivalent article to a prospective customer;



 



   (2)   Transactions in which, by reason of the seller’s more
convenient location relative to a designated point of delivery, the purchaser
agrees to reimburse the seller for delivering goods, wares or merchandise at
that point to the purchaser’s customer in accordance with a contract of
sale between the purchaser and his customer;



 



   (3)   Transactions in which, as a matter of business practice, the
form of a sale is arranged and entered into by the seller and the purchaser
as a substitute for or the equivalent of the transportation of the article or
the payment of transportation charges on the article from the point of the
delivery to some other point;



 



   (4)   Transactions different in detail from those described in the
three immediately preceding paragraphs of this section, but which the
Director of Finance has found and by rule determined to be of a kind whose
primary purpose is to accommodate the purchaser rather than to make a sale in
the ordinary course of business; of a kind which, in the particular kind of
business involved, is frequent or customary in the circumstances under which
a particular sale is made; and of a kind where goods, wares or merchandise of
like or similar kind, and of substantially equivalent value to that which was
sold is received as consideration.



 



   No sale shall be considered a sale for convenience within the meaning
of this section unless it is of a kind described in Paragraphs (1), (2), (3)
or (4) of this section.



 



 



SEC. 21.168.3.  CERTAIN SOLICITORS DEEMED EMPLOYEES.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 178,101, Eff. 1/9/07.)



 



   Any person who goes from place to place to solicit sales of goods,
wares or merchandise of another person, or to sell and deliver the goods,
wares or merchandise of another person or his products exclusively, is deemed
for the purposes of this article to be the employee of the other person and
not liable for payment of business tax for the sales or delivery, provided
that the person deemed here to be the employer shall pay to the City all
business tax measured by the gross receipts from the sales computed at the
rate provided in Sections 21.42 or 21.44, whichever is applicable.  The
Director of Finance shall issue a Registration Certificate in the manner
provided in this article to any person deemed in this section to be an
employer who undertakes to pay business tax in the manner provided here.



 



 



SEC. 21.168.4.  EXEMPTION – TEMPORARY EXHIBITORS AT TRADESHOWS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 144,111, Eff. 12/31/72.)



 



   (a)   Nothing contained in Section 21.42, Wholesale Sales, in
Section 21.44, Retail Sales, in Section 21.47, Commission Broker or Article
1.2 of Chapter 2 relative to art and cultural shows, shall be construed to
require the payment of a tax by any person operating a temporary exhibit at a
bona fide trade show where the temporary exhibit does not exceed 14 days
within any six-month period in a calendar year at any single trade show. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 178,101, Eff. 1/9/07.)



 



   (b)   For the purpose of this section a bona fide trade show means
an exhibition of products or services or both of a specified industry,
presented for educational purposes and industry improvement. Attendance and
sales are limited to persons dealing in or using the products and services of
the specific industry in the conduct of a commercial enterprise.



 



   Such shows are usually, but not necessarily, sponsored by trade
associations or scientific societies for the advancement and improvement of
the industry in which the society or association members deal. Technical or
professional meetings are usually conducted concurrently with exhibits at
such shows dealing in subjects concerning the particular industry.



 



 



SEC. 21.168.5.  CERTIFIED PRODUCERS DEEMED EMPLOYEES.



   (Added by Ord. No. 155,562, Eff. 8/9/81.)



 



   (a)   Any person who is a certified producer and who sells goods,
wares or merchandise at a certified farmer's market is deemed for the
purposes of this article to be the employee of the operator of the certified
farmer's market and not liable for payment of business tax for the sales
provided that the operator shall pay to the City business taxes measured by
the gross receipts from the sales computed at the rate provided in Section
21.44.  The Director of Finance shall issue a registration certificate in
the manner provided in this article to any operator deemed in this section to
be an employer who undertakes to pay business taxes in the manner provided
here.  (Amended by Ord. No. 178,101, Eff. 1/9/07.)



 



   (b)   For the purpose of this section a certified producer shall
mean a person authorized by the County Agricultural Commissioner to sell
directly to consumers at a certified farmer’s market products produced upon
land which is controlled by such person.



 



   (c)   For the purpose of this section a certified farmer’s market
shall mean a location approved by the County Agricultural Commissioner where
products may be sold by certified producers directly to consumers and which
is operated by one or more certified producers, a nonprofit organization or a
local government agency.



 



 



SEC. 21.169.  CHRISTMAS TREES.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 178,101, Eff. 1/9/07.)



 



   For every person engaged in the business of selling or offering for
sale Christmas trees at retail, and not from a fixed place of business
dealing in other commodities and previously taxed under Section 21.44 of this
article, the tax shall be $29.56 per quarter or fractional part.



 



 



SEC. 21.170.  CHRISTMAS TREE LOT CLEAN-UP DEPOSITS.



 



   If the lot, or portion thereof actually used for the sales operation,
for the retail sale of Christmas trees pursuant to Subdivision 4 of
Subsection A of Section 12.22 of this Code, is not cleaned on or before the
January fifth next following the cessation of the annual retail sale of
Christmas trees to the satisfaction of the Department of Building and Safety,
the City, through the Department of Public Works, shall undertake the
necessary cleanup of the lot, or portion thereof, and the deposit referred to
in Paragraph (e) of Subdivision 4 of Subsection A of Section 12.22 of this
Code or whatever portion thereof is necessary shall be retained by the City
to offset the cost of the City cleaning services. For the purpose of this
section only, “cleaned” shall include, but not be limited to, the removal
of all Christmas trees, temporary structures, trailers, fencing, light poles,
tree limbs, sawdust, debris, trash, lumber, etc., used in conjunction with or
existing as a result of the Christmas tree sales operation. Upon written
request of the operator of the sale of Christmas trees, and upon the receipt
of advice in writing from the Department of Building and Safety that the lot
of such operator has been cleaned to the satisfaction of the Department, the
Director of Finance shall take steps to reimburse the unused portion of such
deposit, if any, to the operator. (Added by Ord. No. 151,712, Eff. 11/24/78.)



 



 



SEC. 21.171.  RETAILERS OF NEW PASSENGER MOTOR VEHICLES.



   (Added by Ord. No. 182,184, Eff. 8/20/12.)



 



   (a)   Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 21.44, all gross
receipts from the retail sales of new passenger motor vehicles by a dealer of
new passenger motor vehicles are exempt from taxation under this Article.



 



   (b)   For the purpose of this Section:



 



   1.   A "dealer of new passenger motor vehicles" is a person who
acquires for resale new and unregistered passenger motor vehicles from
manufacturers or distributors of those motor vehicles.  A "dealer of new
passenger motor vehicles" must be subject to and comply with the provisions
of Chapter 6 of Division 2 of the California Vehicle Code (i.e., the
requirements of the New Motor Vehicle Board).



 



   2.   The term "motor vehicle" shall have the same meaning as that
set forth for "motor vehicle" in California Vehicle Code Section 415, as of
the effective date of this Section.



 



   3.   This Section shall only apply to the sale of passenger
vehicles.  A "passenger vehicle" shall have the same meaning as that set
forth for "passenger vehicle" in California Vehicle Code Section 465 as of
the effective date of this Section.  "Passenger vehicle" shall not include
housecars, mobile homes, motorcycles, motor-driven cycles, motorized
bicycles, motorized quadricycles, motorized scooters or similar motorized
vehicles.



 



   (c)    This section and the tax treatment for retailers of new
passenger motor vehicles shall be operative effective January 1, 2013,
through the 2020 tax year.



 



 



SEC. 21.187.  COMMON CARRIER BUS.



   (Title Amended by Ord. No. 178,101, Eff. 1/9/07.)



 



   (a)   For the purpose of this section the following words and
phrases shall be defined as follows:



 



   1.   The word “bus” shall include motorbus, motor coach, trolley
bus, omnibus, passenger stage, or similar vehicle using either a
self–contained source of power or power obtained from another source such
as an overhead trolley system not operated upon fixed tracks or rails, and
primarily designed for the transportation of more than seven passengers,
excluding the driver.



 



   2.   The word “operator” shall mean any person engaging in the
business, either directly or indirectly, as a common carrier in the
transportation of persons by bus, upon any street in this City.



 



   3.   The phrase “bus revenue mile” shall mean the operation, for
one mile, of a bus then and there made available for use as a common carrier
in the transportation of persons or property for hire.



 



   4.   The phrase “base week” shall mean the third week in
January, the third week in April, the second week in July, and the first week
in October; provided that the Director of Finance may from time to time order
that there be substituted in lieu of any of the four weeks hereinabove
designated the week next preceding or next succeeding such designated week.
In the event of any such order by the Director of Finance the operator shall
be notified thereof at least ten days prior to the first day of the
substituted week. The word “week” means a Sunday and the six next
succeeding days.



 



   5.   The phrase “gross receipts” shall have the same meaning as
that set forth in Sec. 21.00(a) of this Code and shall include the total
gross receipts of the operator, together with the full cash value of any
consideration received in a form other than cash from:



 



   (i)   The transportation of persons and property by bus, as a common
carrier, and from advertising and all other privileges or services in, on, or
by buses while being so operated, including receipts from the sale of tokens,
tickets, and passes, and from all contracts by the terms of which the
operator agrees to furnish transportation by bus, as a common carrier,
whether or not such transportation be actually furnished; and



 



   (ii)   The rental



 



   (A)   of any bus operated in this City as a common carrier;



 



   (B)   of property operated, installed, or maintained in any street
in the City for use in connection with the operation of any bus as a common
carrier;



 



   (C)   from permitting others to use or occupy any part thereof; and



 



   (D)   from allowing to others any privilege whatsoever with respect
thereto; provided that for any operator transporting passengers in areas
outside this City, only that proportion of Item (i) shall be included, which
the number of bus revenue miles operated in this City in the last four
consecutive base weeks, the latest of which terminates within the next
preceding tax period, bears to the total number of bus revenue miles operated
in said base weeks.



 



   (b)   Every person engaged in the business of transporting persons
as a common carrier for hire, by bus, upon or over any street in this City,
which business includes the loading or discharging of passengers on the
streets of this City, shall pay for each calendar year or portion thereof
(or, if required by the Director of Finance, for each calendar quarter or
portion thereof) commencing January 1, 1971, a sum equal to 1.48% of the
gross receipts of the next preceding tax period, but not less than $14.78 per
year or $3.67 per quarter, as the case may be.  (Amended by Ord. No.
166,204, Eff. 10/11/90, Oper. 1/1/91.)



 



   (c)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to:



 



   1.   Any municipal corporation or other public entity.



 



   2.   The gross receipts derived from, or the bus revenue miles
traveled by, any bus while being operated solely pursuant to any registration
certificate issued under any other section of this article.



 



   3.   The business of operating busses in this City pursuant to a
franchise granted by ordinance of this City, which franchise provides for
payment to this City of not less than 2-1/2% of the gross receipts. The
exemption extended by this subsection shall apply to all such franchise
operations commencing January 1, 1947.



 



   (d)   If any subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this
section is, for any reason, held to be invalid or unconstitutional by the
decision of any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not
affect the validity of the remaining portions of this section. The Council of
this City hereby declares that it would have adopted this section and each
subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion thereof, irrespective of the
fact that any one or more subsections, sentences, clauses, phrases or
portions be declared invalid or unconstitutional.



 



 



SEC. 21.188.  CONTRACTORS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 178,101, Eff. 1/9/07.)



 



   For every person engaged in business as a contractor, the tax shall be
$165.60 per year or fractional part for the first $60,000.00 or less of gross
receipts, plus $1.09 per year for each additional $1,000.00 of gross receipts
or fractional part in excess of $60,000.00; provided that every contractor
having a fixed place of business in the City of Los Angeles shall pay, in
addition to the tax computed in the manner set forth above, a further tax of
$2.76 per year for each $1,000.00 or fractional part of all salaries, wages,
fees and other compensation paid to his employees or consultants, other than
legal or accounting consultants, for services rendered by the employees and
consultants in the City of Los Angeles in connection with jobs and projects
located outside the City.



 



   1.   The term "contractor" as used here means any person, except an
owner who contracts for a project with another person who is licensed by the
State of California as a contractor or architect or registered civil engineer
acting solely in his professional capacity, who in any capacity other than as
an employee of another with wages as the sole compensation, undertakes to, or
offers to undertake to, or purports to have the capacity to undertake to, or
submits a bid to, or does himself or by or through others construct, alter,
repair, add to, subtract from, improve, move, wreck or demolish any building,
highway, road, railroad, excavation, or other structure, project, development
or improvement, or to do any part of those actions, including the erection of
scaffolding, or other structures or works in connection with that work.



 



   2.   The meaning of the term "gross receipts," as used here, shall
be that set forth in Section 21.00(a) and shall also include the total cost
of the job or project covered by the contract to which the contractor is a
party, without deduction for subcontracts, and irrespective of whether the
contract is one on a fixed price or on a cost plus basis or one under the
terms of which the contractor acts as agent for the owner.  The term "gross
receipts," however, shall include only receipts from jobs or projects located
within the City limits of the City of Los Angeles.



 



 



SEC. 21.189.1.  MISCELLANEOUS SERVICES.



   (Repealed by Ord. No. 178,101, Eff. 1/9/07.)



 



 



SEC. 21.189.2.  RADIO AND TELEVISION BROADCASTER.



   (Repealed by Ord. No. 178,101, Eff. 1/9/07.)



 



 



SEC. 21.189.3.  CHILD CARE PROVIDERS.



   (Repealed by Ord. No. 178,101, Eff. 1/9/07.)



 



 



SEC. 21.189.4.  MULTIMEDIA BUSINESSES.



   (Repealed by Ord. No. 178,101, Eff. 1/9/07.)



 



 



SEC. 21.190.  PROFESSIONS AND OCCUPATIONS.



   (Repealed by Ord. No. 178,101, Eff. 1/9/07.)



 



 



SEC. 21.190.1.  EXEMPTION.



 



   Nothing in this article shall be construed to require the payment of a
tax by any person for any period prior to January 1, 1977 by reason of such
person having engaged in business as a steamship agent; for any period prior
to January 1, 1980 by reason of such person having engaged in business as a
custom house broker; for any period prior to January 1, 1981 by reason of
such person having engaged in business as a stevedore; or for any period
prior to January 1, 1984 by reason of such person having engaged in business
as a tugboat or barge operator.  (Amended by Ord. No. 159,314, Eff. 9/29/84.)



 



 



SEC. 21.191.  HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS.



   (Repealed by Ord. No. 178,101, Eff. 1/9/07.)



 



 



SEC. 21.192.  PERSONAL PROPERTY RENTAL.



   (Repealed by Ord. No. 178,101, Eff. 1/9/07.)



 



 



SEC. 21.192.1.  RENTAL – OUT OF STATE PROPERTY.



   (Repealed by Ord. No. 178,101, Eff. 1/9/07.)



 



 



SEC. 21.193.  SALE OF REAL PROPERTY.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 178,101, Eff. 1/9/07.)



 



   For every person engaged in the business of developing and selling real
property in which the person has equity or title, the tax shall be $165.60
per year or fractional part for the first $60,000.00 or less of gross
receipts, plus $2.76 per year for each additional $1,000.00 of gross receipts
or fractional part in excess of $60,000.00.



 



   1.   Real Property Seller means a person engaged in the business of
developing and selling real property in which the person has equity or title.



 



   2.   A person shall be deemed to be engaged in the business of Real
Property Sales if the person:



 



   (i)   As a subdivider, as that term is defined in Section 11508 of
the Business and Professions Code, has recorded a subdivision map respecting
the property sold in accordance with the Subdivision Map Act of California,
provided, however, that a person filing or joining in the filing of a
subdivision map for the sole purpose of accomplishing a street vacation shall
not be considered a subdivider; or



 



   (ii)   Has prior to sale, divided the property held pursuant to the
"lot-split" regulations of the Los Angeles Municipal Code (commencing at
Section 17.50); or



 



   (iii)   Sells two or more pieces of real property within a calendar
year and upon each of which a building was constructed or caused to be
constructed by the seller, provided the sales were within three years of the
recordation by anyone of a subdivision map respecting the property sold
pursuant to the Subdivision Map Act; or



 



   (iv)   Sells any real property upon which he has constructed or
caused to be constructed an apartment house or commercial building, provided
the sale is either prior to or within three years after the issuance of a
Certificate of Occupancy or its equivalent respecting the property sold.



 



   3.   For purposes of this section, the term "gross receipts" shall
not include:



 



   (i)   proceeds realized from the sale of property:



 



   a.   through foreclosure; or



 



   b.   to an agency proposing to take the land under eminent domain
proceedings; or



 



   c.   through the exercise of a power of sale contained in a deed of
trust or mortgage; or



 



   d.   through bankruptcy; or



 



   e.   through assignment for the benefit of creditors; or



 



   f.   through court order; or



 



   (ii)   the unpaid balance on the date of sale of any encumbrance of
record upon the property;



 



   (iii)   existing prior to the sale and remaining in existence
between the same parties following the sale;



 



   (iv)   existing of record 180 days prior to the date of sale; or



 



   (v)   existing prior to the sale and with respect to which a
deficiency judgment is prohibited under the provisions of California Code of
Civil Procedure Section 580b, whether or not it is extinguished by reason of
the sale.



 



   4.   No person shall engage in this business or perform any act
required to be taxed under this section during any tax period without first
obtaining a registration certificate and paying a tax in the minimum amount
of $165.00.



 



   5.   At the close of each tax period, the person shall file a
statement with the Director of Finance setting forth the amount of gross
receipts derived from the business for that period, and shall pay on or
before the last day of February in the next subsequent tax period any
additional tax that may be due under this article for the preceding expired
tax period.



 



   6.   In the event the business is discontinued, dissolved or
otherwise terminated before the close of the tax period, the required
statement of gross receipts shall then be filed, and any additional tax due
under this section shall be paid on or before the close of business on the
last day of the month following the month in which discontinuance,
dissolution or termination occurred.



 



   7.   When any person's activities occurring both within and without
the City contribute to the production of receipts from the business taxed
under this section, the person's gross receipts shall be apportioned in a
manner that is fairly calculated to determine the amount of gross receipts
derived from or attributable to engaging in business in the City.  The
apportionment shall be made on the basis of payroll, value and situs of
tangible property, general expense, or by reference to any of these or other
factors, or by another method of apportionment that will fairly determine the
amount of gross receipts derived from or attributable to engaging in business
in the City.  In the absence of substantial information to the contrary, 80%
of the total gross receipts shall be deemed attributable to activities
conducted in the jurisdiction in which the subject real property is located
and 20% of the total gross receipts shall be deemed attributable to
activities conducted in the jurisdiction in which is located a place or
premises, other than the subject real property, from which business
activities are conducted.  The percentages may be increased or decreased by
the Director of Finance where after consideration of all of the facts,
circumstances warrant the deviation.



 



   8.   The sale of any real property, which would not subject the
owner to taxation under the provisions of this section, shall not subject the
owner to taxation under the provisions of Section 21.49, Professions and
Occupations, of this article.



 



 



SEC. 21.194.  TRANSPORTING PERSONS FOR HIRE.



   (Added by Ord. No. 123,096, Eff. 12/1/62.)



 



   (a)   Definitions:



 



   1.   Operator. The term “operator” is used in this section as
defined in the Motor Vehicle Transportation License Tax Act of California,
with reference only, however, to persons engaging in the transportation of
persons for hire.



 



   2.   Transportation for Hire. The term “transportation for hire”
shall be deemed to include transportation for gain or profit, direct or in
direct.



 



   3.   Motor Vehicle.  The term “motor vehicle” is used in this
section as defined in the Motor Vehicle Transportation License Tax Act of
California.



 



   (b)   Tax Imposed.



 



   1.   Every person whose business in whole or in part is that of
operator, as defined herein, of any motor vehicle for the transportation of
persons for hire, and who in the course of that business uses the public
streets and highways of the City for the purpose of such business, shall pay
a business tax as provided in this section.



 



   2.   The business taxed under the provisions of this section shall
be the transportation of persons by an operator:



 



   (i)   Wholly within the City;



 



   (ii)   From a place or places outside the City to a place or places
within the City;



 



   (iii)   From a place or places within the City to a place or places
outside of the City;



 



   (iv)   From a place or places within the City to a place or places
also within the City even though such transportation involves going outside
the City in the course thereof.



 



   3.   This section shall not apply to the business of operating motor
coaches or other motor vehicles under the provisions of a franchise granted
pursuant to provisions of the City Charter and the Franchise Procedures
Ordinance of the City of Los Angeles, which requires a franchise fee or
charge based upon such operations to be paid to the City of Los Angeles, when
such fee or charge has been paid. Nor shall this section apply to an operator
who transports persons for hire from a place or places outside the City to a
place or places within the City by taxi cabs when said operator does not also
transport persons for hire from a place within the City of Los Angeles.
(Amended by Ord. No. 139,139, Eff. 9/14/69.)



 



   4.   No business tax shall be required to be paid for the business
of operating a single taxicab in the City pursuant to a written vehicle
permit issued under Section 71.02.  (Added by Ord. No. 150,105, Eff.
10/9/77.)



 



   (c)   Measure of Tax  Reporting Period.  (Amended by Ord. No.
166,204, Eff. 10/11/90, Oper. 1/1/91.)  The tax required to be paid by this
section shall be reported and paid annually. Every person engaged in the
business subject to tax under this section shall pay a minimum tax of $54.99
per year at the beginning of each calendar year which shall be given as a
credit against the total tax due for such year. The tax required to be paid
under this section shall be measured as follows:



 



   1.   For each vehicle having a seating capacity of 10 or less
persons, the tax shall be $1.06 for each day or fraction thereof of its
operation as specified in Subsection (b);



 



   2.   For each vehicle having a seating capacity of 11 to 30 persons,
inclusive, the tax shall be $1.60 for each day or fraction thereof of its
operation as specified in Subsection (b); and



 



   3.   For each vehicle having a seating capacity of 31 or more
persons, the tax shall be $2.19 for each day or fraction thereof of its
operation as specified in Subsection (b).



 



   In determining seating capacity of any vehicle used to measure the tax
imposed under this section, the capacity to hold adult passengers as set
forth in the specifications of the manufacturer shall be the determining
factor, and seats provided for the driver, and announcer or conductor, if
any, shall be included in addition to such specified capacity.



 



   (d)   Method of Reporting.



 



   1.   No person shall engage in such business or perform any act
required to be taxed under this section during any tax period without first
obtaining a registration certificate and paying a minimum tax for that year
in the amount of $54.99.  (Amended by Ord. No. 166,204, Eff. 10/11/90, Oper.
1/1/91.)



 



   2.   At the close of each tax period such person shall file a
statement with the Director of Finance showing the tax due setting forth a
summary of the vehicles of each graduation specified in Subsection (c) above
used during such proceeding tax period and the number of days or fractions
thereof of such use, and shall pay on or before the last day of February in
the next subsequent tax period any additional tax that may be due hereunder
for such proceeding tax period.



 



   3.   In making such statement, the person may at his option elect to
compute such summary and pay such tax on a “test week” basis, by
separately computing the tax which would be due for each of the four test
weeks specified in Subsection (d) 4 hereof, dividing the total of the tax due
for the four test weeks by four to ascertain the average weekly tax, and
multiplying said average weekly tax by the number of weeks of the tax period
during which the conducted operations subject to tax under this section. If
the person elects to compute the tax imposed hereunder on a test week basis,
such elections shall be irrevocable and conclusive as to the tax period for
which such election is made. Any person electing to compute such tax on a
test week basis shall retain the records used for such computation for a
period of four years from the date of filing such report. Upon the failure of
any person electing to compute such tax on a test week basis to retain such
records, the Director of Finance may determine the amount of any additional
tax estimated to be due from such persons in the manner provided by Los
Angeles Municipal Code Section 21.16.



 



   4.   The test weeks which may be used by a person in computing the
tax imposed under this section are the second full week in January, the
second full week in April, the second full week in July and the second full
week in October. If a person does not conduct operations subject to tax under
this section in any one or more of such test weeks, then he may use the next
succeeding week following such test week in which he does conduct such
operations in the place of such test week; provided, however, that if a
person does not conduct operations subject to tax under this section during
each of the four test weeks which may, under this subsection, be used in
computing the tax, such person may not elect to compute his tax on a test
week basis without prior written application to and prior written approval of
the Director of Finance as to what alternate test period or periods may be
used.



 



   5.   In the event the business is discontinued, dissolved or
otherwise terminated before the close of such tax period, the statement
required by Subsection (d)2 hereof shall thereupon be filed, and any
additional tax due hereunder shall be paid within 45 days following the date
of such continuance, dissolution or termination.



 



   (e)   Exemption for Vehicles Operated Exclusively in Interstate
Commerce. No tax hereunder shall be required for the operation of any motor
vehicle for any day or fraction thereof when such vehicle is operated
exclusively between points within this City and points without this State.



 



   (f)   Exemptions and Exceptions.  No tax hereunder shall be
required for the operation of any motor vehicle for any day or fraction
thereof when such vehicle is operated exclusively between fixed termini or
over regular routes in passenger stage operations under certificate issued by
the Public Utilities Commission pursuant to Division 1, Part 1, Chapter 5,
Article 2 of the Public Utilities Code of the State of California and for
which operation a certificate of public convenience and necessity has been
issued by the Interstate Commerce Commission.  (Former (h) Relettered (f) by
Ord. No. 159,384, Eff. 11/ 8/84.)



 



   (g)   Measure of Tax for Certain School Buses.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 166,204, Eff. 10/11/90, Oper. 1/1/91.)  The provisions of Subsection (c)
notwithstanding, the tax required to be paid under this section for the
operation of any motor vehicle for any day or fraction thereof when such
vehicle is operated exclusively on any day to transport students or members
of bona fide youth organizations and their supervising adults to or from
public or private schools, school events or other youth activities, without
regard to the manner or source of compensation to the operator, shall be
measured as follows:



 



   1.   For each vehicle having a seating capacity of 10 or less
persons, the tax shall be $0.30 for each day or fraction thereof of its
operation as specified in Subsection (b);



 



   2.   For each vehicle having a seating capacity of 11 to 30 persons,
inclusive, the tax shall be $0.44 for each day or fraction thereof of its
operation as specified in Subsection (b); and



 



   3.   For each vehicle having a seating capacity of 31 or more
persons, the tax shall be $0.60 for each day or fraction thereof of its
operation as specified in Subsection (b).



 



 



SEC. 21.195.  TRUCKING – HAULING



   (Added by Ord. No. 123,096, Eff. 12/1/62.)



 



   (a)   Definitions.



 



   1.   Operator.  The term “operator” is used in this section as
defined in the Motor Vehicle Transportation License Tax Act of California,
with reference only, however, the persons engaging in the transportation of
property for hire or compensation.



 



   2.   Motor Vehicle.  The term “motor vehicle” is used in this
section as defined in the Motor Vehicle Transportation License Tax Act of
California.



 



   3.   Tractor.  The term “tractor” as used herein shall mean
“truck- tractor” as defined in the Vehicle Code of California.



 



   (b)   Tax Imposed.  Every person whose business in whole or in part
is that of operator, as defined herein, of any motor vehicle for the
transportation of property for hire or compensation, and who in the course of
that business uses the public streets and highways of this City for the
purpose of such business, shall pay a business tax as provided in this
section.



 



   (c)   Measure of Tax – Reporting Period.  (Amended by Ord. No.
166,204, Eff. 10/11/90, Oper. 1/1/91.)  The tax required to be paid by this
section shall be reported and paid annually. Every person engaged in the
business subject to tax under this section shall pay a minimum tax of $88.69
per year at the beginning of each calendar year which shall be given as a
credit against the total tax due for such year. The tax required to be paid
under this section shall be measured as follows:



 



   1.   For each motor vehicle, other than a tractor, trailer,
semitrailer or dolly, used to receive or discharge, pickup or deliver
property within the city, the tax shall be as follows:



 



   Where the unladen weight thereof is 4,000 pounds or less, the tax shall
be $0.28 for each day or fraction thereof of its operation as specified in
Subsection (b);



 



   Where the unladen weight thereof is over 4,000 pounds, and not more
than 8,000 pounds, the tax shall be $0.71 for each day or fraction thereof of
its operation as specified in Subsection (b); and



 



   Where the unladen weight thereof is over 8,000 pounds, the tax shall be
$0.78 for each day or fraction thereof of its operation as specified in
Subsection (b).



 



   2.   For each tractor which is so used to haul one or more trailers
or semitrailers, the tax shall be $0.78 for each day or fraction thereof of
its operation as specified in Subsection (b).



 



   (d)   Method of Reporting.



 



   1.   No person shall engage in such business or perform any act
required to be taxed under this section during any tax period without first
obtaining a registration certificate and paying a minimum tax for that year
in the amount of $88.69.  (Amended by Ord. No. 166,204, Eff. 10/11/90, Oper.
1/1/91.)



 



   2.   At the close of each tax period such person shall file a
statement with the Director of Finance showing the tax due and setting forth
a summary of the vehicles of each graduation specified in Subsection (c)
above used during such preceding tax period and the number of days or
fractions thereof of such use, and shall pay on or before the last day of
February in the next subsequent tax period any additional tax that may be due
hereunder for such preceding tax period.



 



   3.   In making such statement, the person may at his option elect to
compute such summary and pay such tax on a “test week” basis, by
separately computing the tax which would be due for each of the four test
weeks specified in Subsection (d)4 hereof, dividing the total of the tax due
for the four test weeks by four to ascertain the average weekly tax, and
multiplying said average weekly tax by the number of weeks of the tax period
during which he conducted operations subject to tax under this section. If
the person elects to compute the tax imposed hereunder on a test week basis,
such election shall be irrevocable and conclusive as to the tax period for
which such election is made. Any person electing to compute such tax on a
test week basis shall retain the records used for such computation for a
period of four years from the date of filing such report. Upon the failure of
any person electing to compute such tax on a test week basis to retain such
records, the Director of Finance may determine the amount of any additional
tax estimated to be due from such person in the manner provided by Los
Angeles Municipal Code Section 21.16.



 



   4.   The test weeks which may be used by a person in computing the
tax imposed under this section are the second full week in January, the
second full week in April, the second full week in July and the second full
week in October. If a person does not conduct operations subject to tax under
this section in any one or more of such test weeks, then he may use the next
succeeding week following such test week in which he does conduct such
operations in the place of such test week; provided, however, that if a
person does not conduct operations subject to tax under this section during
each of the four test weeks which may, under this subsection, be used in
computing the tax, such person may not elect to compute his tax on a test
week basis without prior written application to and prior written approval of
the Director of Finance as to what alternate test period or periods may be
used.



 



   5.   In the event the business is discontinued, dissolved or
otherwise terminated before the close of such tax period, the statement
required by Subsection (d)2 hereof shall thereupon be filed, and any
additional tax due hereunder shall be paid within 45 days following the date
of such discontinuance, dissolution or termination.



 



   (e)   Exception for Vehicle Operated Exclusively in Interstate
Commerce. No tax hereunder shall be required for the operation of any motor
vehicle for any day or fraction thereof when such vehicle is operated
exclusively between points within this City and points without this State.



 



   (f)   Exemption and Exceptions.  No tax under this section shall be
required to be paid by any person who is subject to tax under the Household
Goods Carriers Uniform Business License Tax Act or the Motor Carriers of
Property Permit Fee Act.  (Amended by Ord. No. 178,101, Eff. 1/9/07.)



 



 



SEC. 21.196.  MISCELLANEOUS TRUCKING.



   (Added by Ord. No. 123,096, Eff. 12/1/62.)



 



   (a)   Definitions. For purposes of this section, the term “motor
vehicle” is defined to mean the same as that term is defined in the Motor
Vehicle Transportation License Tax Act of California: the term “trailer”
and “semi-trailer” are used as those terms are defined in the Vehicle
Code of California; the term “tractor” shall mean a “truck tractor”
as defined in the Vehicle Code of California.



 



   (b)   Tax Imposed. Every person engaged in any business not
otherwise specifically taxed by other provisions of this article who uses any
motor vehicle over the public streets and highways of this City for hauling
or carrying his tools, equipment or supplies, or for delivering or carrying
goods, wares or merchandise sold, let or handled by him in the course of his
business, shall pay a business tax as provided in this section.



 



   (c)   Measure of Tax  Reporting Period.  (Amended by Ord. No.
166,204, Eff. 10/11/90, Oper. 1/1/91.)



 



   The tax required to be paid by this section shall be reported and paid
annually. Every person engaged in the business subject to tax under this
section shall pay a minimum tax of $88.69 per year at the beginning of each
calendar year which shall be given as a credit against the total tax due for
such year. The tax required to be paid under this section shall be measured
as follows:



 



   1.   For each motor vehicle, other than a tractor, trailer,
semitrailer or dolly, the tax shall be as follows:



 



   Where the unladen weight thereof is 4,000 pounds or less, the tax shall
be $0.28 for each day or fraction thereof of its operation as specified in
Subsection (b);



 



   Where the unladen weight thereof is over 4,000 pounds, and not more
than 8,000 pounds, the tax shall be $0.71 for each day or fraction thereof of
its operation as specified in Subsection (b); and



 



   Where the unladen weight thereof is over 8,000 pounds, the tax shall be
$0.78 for each day or fraction thereof of its operation as specified in
Subsection (b).



 



   2.   For each tractor which is so used to haul one or more trailers
or semitrailers, the tax shall be $0.78 for each day or fraction thereof of
its operation as specified in Subsection (b).



 



   (d)   Method of Reporting.



 



   1.   No person shall engage in such business or perform any act
required to be taxed under this section during any tax period without first
obtaining a registration certificate and paying a minimum tax for that year
in the amount of $88.69.  (Amended by Ord. No. 166,204, Eff. 10/11/90, Oper.
1/1/91.)



 



   2.   At the close of each tax period such person shall file a
statement with the Director of Finance showing the tax due and setting forth
a summary of the vehicles of each graduation specified in Subsection (c)
above used during such preceding tax period and the number of days or
fractions thereof of such use, and shall pay on or before the last day of
February in the next subsequent tax period any additional tax that may be due
hereunder for such preceding tax period.



 



   3.   In making such statement, the person may at his option elect to
compute such summary and pay such tax on a “test week” basis, by
separately computing the tax which would be due for each of the four test
weeks specified in Subsection (d)4 hereof dividing the total of the tax due
for the four test weeks by four to ascertain the average weekly tax, and
multiplying said average weekly tax by the number of weeks of the tax period
during which he conducted operations subject to tax under this section. If
the person elects to compute the tax imposed hereunder on a test week basis,
such election shall be irrevocable and conclusive as to the tax period for
which such election is made. Any person electing to compute such tax on a
test week basis shall retain the records used for such computation for a
period of four years from the date of filing such report. Upon the failure of
any person electing to compute such tax on a test week basis to retain such
records, the Director of Finance may determine the amount of any additional
tax estimated to be due from such person in the manner provided by Los
Angeles Municipal Code Section 21.16.



 



   4.   The test week which may be used by a person in computing the
tax imposed under this section are the second full week in January, the
second full week in April, the second full week in July and the second full
week in October. If a person does not conduct operations subject to tax under
this section in any one or more of such test weeks, then he may use the next
succeeding week following such test week in which he does conduct such
operations in the place of such test week; provided, however, that if a
person does not conduct operations subject to tax under this section during
each of the four test weeks which may, under this subsection, be used in
computing the tax, such person may not elect to compute his tax on a test
week basis without prior written application to and prior written approval of
the Director of Finance as to what alternate test period or periods may be
used.



 



   5.   In the event the business is discontinued, dissolved or
otherwise terminated before the close of such tax period, the statement
required by Subsection (d)2 hereof shall thereupon be filed, and any
additional tax due hereunder shall be paid within 45 days following the date
of such discontinuance, dissolution or termination.



 



 



SEC. 21.197.  TELEPHONE COMPANIES.



   (Repealed by Ord. No. 178,101, Eff. 1/9/07.)



 



 



SEC. 21.199.  SALES TAX.



 



   (a)   Imposition and Rate of Sales Tax.  (Reenacted, Amended by
Ord. No. 137,130, Oper. 10/1/68) For the privilege of selling tangible
personal property at retail a tax is hereby imposed, in addition to any other
tax imposed under this article or under this chapter, upon all retailers at
the rate of one percent of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale
of all tangible personal property sold at retail in the City of Los Angeles
on or after October 1, 1968, and to and including March 31, 1969.



 



   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this subsection, the tax
imposed by this section shall not apply to selling tangible personal property
at fixed prices agreed to in contracts executed in good faith prior to
October 1, 1968.



 



   For the purposes of this section, all retail sales are consummated at
the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property
sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out–of–state
destination, or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state
destination. The gross receipts from sales shall include delivery charges
when such charges are subject to the sales and use tax imposed by the State
of California, regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the
event a retailer having a place of business within the City also has a place
of business outside the City, both of which participate in some degree in a
particular sale, the sale shall be deemed to have occurred within the City of
Los Angeles if the principal negotiations were carried on there or by
personnel normally assigned to that place of business. In the event a
retailer has no permanent place of business in the City, but nevertheless
engages in selling tangible personal property in the City, the sales shall be
deemed to have occurred within the City if the sales were solicited or
otherwise promoted by the seller or his agent within the City and the seller
or his agent delivered the property within the City to a purchaser or to the
purchaser’s agent.



 



   (b)   Reimbursement.  The retailer shall reimburse himself for the
tax due from the consumer substantially in accordance with the following
table up to the amount specified herein:



 




[Sales Tax — Retailer Reimbursement]




 




1 %




 



 




Price

 

Tax




.01

 
-
 

.49

 

     .00




.50

 
-
 

1.49

 

     .01




1.50

 
-
 

2.49

 

     .02




2.50

 
-
 

3.49

 

     .03




3.50

 
-
 

4.49

 

     .04




4.50

 
-
 

5.49

 

     .05




5.50

 
-
 

6.49

 

     .06




6.50

 
-
 

7.49

 

     .07




7.50

 
-
 

8.49

 

     .08




8.50

 
-
 

9.49

 

     .09




9.50

 
-
 

10.49

 

     .10





 



   The remainder of the schedule shall show amounts of reimbursement
computed by applying the applicable tax rate to the sales price, rounded off
to the nearest cent by eliminating any fraction less than one–half cent and
increasing any fraction of one–half cent or over to the next higher cent.



 



   (c)   Unlawful Advertising.  It is unlawful for any retailer to
advertise or hold out or state to the public or to any customer, directly or
indirectly that the tax or any part thereof will be assumed or absorbed by
the retailer or that it will not be added to the selling price of the
property sold, or that, if added, it or any part thereof will be refunded.



 



   (d)   Tax Levied as State Sales & Use Tax Law.  The tax hereby
levied, except as otherwise provided, is levied in the same manner, to the
same extent and under the same conditions as sales taxes are levied pursuant
to Part 1 of Division 2 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code, known as
the “Sales and Use Tax Law,” as amended and in force and effect on
October 1, 1968.



 



   (e)   Extension of Time; Due Date: Penalties. The Director of
Finance, for good cause, may extend for not more than 45 days the time for
making any return or paying any sum required to be paid hereunder. The
extension may be granted at any time provided a written request therefor is
filed with the Director of Finance prior to the delinquency date.



 



   All taxes payable monthly and all taxes payable quarterly hereunder
shall be deemed delinquent if not paid on or before the close of business on
the last day of the month following the monthly or quarterly period for which
the tax is payable. Taxes payable hereunder for periods other than monthly or
quarterly periods shall be deemed delinquent at the times designated by the
Director of Finance in his rules and regulations. Whenever tax required to be
paid by this section is not paid on or before the date on which it becomes
delinquent, penalties and interest shall accrue and deficiency determinations
shall be made in the manner provided in Sec. 21.05 and Sec. 21.15.



 



   Each retailer shall, on or before the last day of the month following
the close of each calendar quarter, make a statement to the Director of
Finance on forms provided by him, of the total gross receipts received during
the preceding quarter. At the time the statement is filed, the full amount of
tax due shall be paid to the Director of Finance. Where the Director of
Finance determines that efficiency in the administration of the tax would be
promoted, he may establish reporting periods greater than quarterly, but not
to exceed one year, for retailers who sell tangible personal property only
occasionally or seasonally. The Director of Finance may establish shorter
reporting periods for any retailer if he deems it necessary in order to
insure connection of the tax and he may require further information in the
statement. Statements and payments are due immediately upon cessation of
business for any reason.



 



   In addition to the powers of the Director of Finance mentioned in the
foregoing paragraphs, he may, under circumstances set forth in Subsection (j)
of this section require prepayment of taxes.



 



   (f)   Registration; Permits. Every person desiring to engage in or
conduct business as a seller within the City of Los Angeles shall secure from
the Director of Finance of said City a permit for each place of business.
Such permits shall be issued by the Director of Finance upon receipt of a
written application therefor setting forth the name under which the applicant
transacts or intends to transact business, the location of his place or
places of business and such other information as the Director of Finance may
require. A permit is not assignable and is valid only for the person in whose
name it is issued and for the transaction of business at the place designated
therein. A change of location may be endorsed upon the permit by the Director
of Finance. The permit shall at all times be conspicuously displayed at the
place for which issued.



 



   (g)   Revocation of Permit; Renewal of Permit.  Whenever any person
fails to comply with any provision of this section or any rule or regulation
adopted pursuant hereto, the Director of Finance, upon hearing, after giving
such person ten days’ notice in writing specifying the time and place of
hearing and requiring him to show cause why his permit or permits should not
be revoked, may revoke or suspend any one or more of the permits held by such
person. The notice may be served personally or by mail in the manner
prescribed for service of notice in Sec. 11.00(i) or in Sec. 21.16 of this
Code. The Director of Finance shall not issue a new permit unless he is
satisfied that the former holder of the permit will thereafter comply with
the provisions of this section and the rules and regulations adopted
hereunder.



 



   (h)   Selling Without Permit.  A person who engages in business as
a seller in the City without a permit or permits, or after a permit has been
suspended, and each officer of any corporation which so engages in business
is guilty of a misdemeanor.



 



   (i)   Violation of Ordinance. The Director of Finance may at his
option accept a State of California Resale Certificate as evidence that any
sale is not a sale at retail, or he may in his discretion require an
affidavit from the seller setting forth such information respecting such sale
as he deems necessary to determine the nature of such sale.



 



   (j)   State Resale Certificate Optional. All provisions of the Sales
and Use Tax Law, Part 1, Division 2 of the Revenue and Tax Code of the State
of California, as amended and in force and effect on October 1, 1968, except
the provisions pertaining solely to the Use Tax and Sections 6051, 6052,
6052.5, 6053, 6066, 6067, 6068, 6069, 6070, 6071, 6072, 6271 to 6292
inclusive, 6451, 6459, 6470, 6481 to 6592, inclusive, 6701 to 6799,
inclusive, 6826 to 6828, inclusive, 6901 to 6937, inclusive, 6961 to 6963,
inclusive, 6981, 7051 to 7056, inclusive, 7057, 7101 to 7154, inclusive, and
7176 applicable to sales of property at retail, are hereby adopted and made a
part of this section as though fully set forth herein and all provisions of
this Code conflict therewith are inapplicable to this section and the tax
hereby imposed. All of the provisions of the California Sales and Use Tax Law
hereby adopted, providing for the performance of official action on the part
of the State Board of Equalization shall be performed by the Director of
Finance of the City of Los Angeles.



 



   (k)   Sections of State Law Adopted by Reference; Suit for
Collection of Tax. The term “gross receipts” as used herein does not
include (l) the amount of any federal tax imposed upon or with respect to
retail sales, whether imposed upon the retailer or upon the consumer, and
regardless of whether or not the amount of federal tax is stated to customers
as a separate charge; and (2) the amount of any California State or local
Sales or Use Tax.



 



   (l)   Gross Receipts Defined. In addition to the exemptions
contained in Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the
State of California, there shall be excluded from the computation of the tax
gross receipts from;



 



   1.   Sales of property which is shipped to a point outside this City
pursuant to the contract of sale by delivery by the retailer to such a point
by means of (A) facilities operated by the retailer; (B) delivery by the
retailed to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point; or (C)
delivery by the retailer to a customs broker or forwarding agent for shipment
outside this City.



 



   (m)   Administration of Ordinance; Rules and Regulations.  The
Director of Finance shall administer and enforce the provisions of this
section and, with the approval of the City Attorney, shall prescribe, adopt
and enforce reasonable rules and regulations for the purpose of administering
and enforcing the section. Each of said rules and regulations which relate to
the time, form and manner of making returns and payments of the taxes imposed
hereby shall govern, notwithstanding any other provision of this article to
the contrary. Such rules and regulations, among other things, require each
retailer to keep such records, receipts, invoices and other pertinent papers
in the manner therein set forth.



 



   Inasmuch as this section is patterned after the Sales Tax provisions of
the Revenues and Taxation Code of the State of California, and the State
Board of Equalization has made various rules and regulations pertaining to
the interpretation, administration and enforcement of said provisions of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, and it may be reasonably assumed that the City of
Los Angeles will be confronted with many of the problems dealt with in the
state rules and regulations, each such rule and regulation, in so far as
applicable, shall apply in the interpretation of this section until
specifically abandoned by rules and regulations adopted by the Director of
Finance pursuant to the authority of this section.



 



   (n)   Inclusion of Portion of State Law. The inclusion of any
clause, portion or part of the State Sales and Use Tax Law, Part 1, Division
2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California, verbatim in
this section shall not in or of itself be deemed to exclude any of the
remaining provisions of said Sales and Use Tax Law that are made a part
hereof by reference only.



 



   (z)   Validity of Ordinance.  If any subsection, sentence, clause,
phrase or portion of this section, including but not limited to any
exemption, is, for any reason, held to be invalid or unconstitutional by the
decision of any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not
affect the validity of the remaining portions of this section. The Council of
this City hereby declares that it would have adopted this section and each
subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion thereof, irrespective of the
fact that any one or more subsections, clauses, phrases or portions be
declared invalid or unconstitutional.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 1.1
TELEPHONE, ELECTRICITY AND GAS USERS TAX



 




(Added by Ord. No. 135,104, Eff. 10/2/67, Operative 11/1/67.)




 



 



Section



21.1.1   Definitions.



21.1.2   Constitutional Exemptions.



21.1.3   Communications Users Tax.



21.1.4   Electricity Users Tax.



21.1.5   Gas User Tax.



21.1.6   Interest and Penalty.



21.1.7   Actions to Collect.



21.1.8   Duty to Collect – Procedures.



21.1.9   Additional Powers and Duties of Director of Finance, Etc.



21.1.10   Assessment – Administrative Remedy.



21.1.11   Records.



21.1.12   Exemptions and Refunds.



21.1.13   Amendment or Repeal.



21.1.14   Audit of Communications Users Tax.



21.1.15   Severability.



 



 



SEC. 21.1.1.  DEFINITIONS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 179,686*, Eff. 3/15/08.)




   The following words and phrases whenever used in this article shall be
construed as defined in this section:



 



   (a)   "Ancillary Telecommunications Services" shall mean services
that are associated with or incidental to the provision, use or enjoyment of
Communications Services.



 



   (b)   "Communications Services" shall mean the transmission,
conveyance, or routing of voice, audio, video communications, data or any
other communications information or signals to a point, or between or among
points, whatever the technology used, and whether or not that information is
transmitted through interconnected service with the public switched network,
or through fiber optic, coaxial cable, power line transmission, broadband,
digital subscriber line or other wireless transmission.  The term
"Communications Services" includes transmission, conveyance, or routing in
which computer processing applications are used to act on the form, code or
protocol of the content for purposes of transmission, conveyance or routing
without regard to whether those services are referred to as voice over
internet protocol (VoIP) services or are classified by the Federal
Communications Commission as enhanced or value added, and includes video
and/or data services that are functionally integrated with "Communications
Services".  "Communications Services" include, but are not limited to the
following services, regardless of the manner or basis on which those services
are calculated or billed: central office and custom calling features
(including but not limited to call waiting, call forwarding, caller
identification and three-way calling); local number portability; text
messaging; instant messaging; Ancillary Telecommunications Services; prepaid
and post-paid telecommunications services (including but not limited to
prepaid calling cards); mobile telecommunications services; Private
Communications Services; paging services; and 800 services (or any other
toll-free numbers designated by the Federal Communications Commission). 
"Communications Services" does not include either digital downloads, such as
downloads of books, music, ringtones, games and similar digital products, or
that portion of cable or video television services subject to a cable or
video television franchise fee.



 



   (c)   "Month" shall mean a calendar month.



 



   (d)   "Person" shall mean all individuals, domestic and foreign
corporations, associations, syndicates, joint stock companies, partnerships
of every kind, joint ventures, clubs, Massachusetts businesses or common law
trusts, societies, and, shall include municipal corporations.



 



   (e)   "Private Communications Services" shall mean any dedicated
Communications Services that entitle the user to the exclusive or priority
use of communications channels.



 



   (f)   "Service User" shall mean a Person required to pay a tax
imposed under the provisions of this article.



 



* Note: Pursuant to the passage of Proposition S in a Special Election held
on February 5, 2008, Ordinance No. 179,686 was adopted by the Council of the
City of Los Angeles at its meeting of March 5, 2008.



 



 



SEC. 21.1.2.  CONSTITUTIONAL EXEMPTIONS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 135,276, Eff. 10/30/67.)



 



   Nothing in this article shall be construed as imposing a tax upon any
person when imposition of such tax upon that person would be in violation of
the Constitution of the United States or that of the State of California.



 



 



SEC. 21.1.3.  COMMUNICATIONS USERS TAX.



   (Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 179,686*, Eff. 3/15/08.)



 



   (a)   There is hereby imposed a tax upon every Person with a billing
or service address in the City of Los Angeles who uses Communications
Services, including services for intrastate, interstate or international
Communications Services, to the extent permitted by state and federal law. 
The tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate of nine percent of the
charges made for those Communications Services and shall be paid by the
Person paying for those services.  However, as to the charges made for
services to any independent telemarketing agency, as defined in Section
21.47(b) of this Code, incurred solely in performing the functions of an
independent telemarketing agency, the tax imposed by this section shall be at
the rate of five percent of the charges made for those services.



 



   (b)   The tax imposed in this section shall be collected from the
Service User by the Person providing the Communications Services.  The
amount of tax collected from the 26th day of each Month through the 25th day
of the following Month shall be remitted to the Director of Finance on or
before the 26th day of the following Month, or, at the option of the Person
required to collect and remit the tax, an estimated amount of tax collected,
measured by the billings of the previous Month, shall be remitted to the
Director of Finance on or before the 20th day of each Month.



 



   (c)   Charges subject to the Communications Users Tax include, but
are not limited to, the following: connection, reconnection, termination,
movement, or change of telecommunications services; late payment fees;
detailed billing; voice mail and other messaging services; directory
assistance; access and line charges; universal service charges; and
regulatory, administrative and other cost recovery charges.



 



   (d)   Exemptions.  Except as otherwise provided in this article,
Communications Services shall include all Communications Services for which
there is a charge, regardless of the means or technology used to provide
those services.  Notwithstanding the provisions of Subsection (a), the tax
imposed under this section shall not be imposed upon any Person for using
Communications Services under the circumstances set forth below:



 



   1.   News services.  No tax shall be imposed under this section,
except with respect to local telephone service, on any payment received from
any Person for services used in the collection of news for the public press,
or a news ticker service furnishing a general news service similar to that of
the public press, or radio broadcasting, or in the dissemination of news
through the public press, or a news ticker service furnishing a general news
service similar to that of the public press, or by means of radio
broadcasting, if the charge for that service is billed in writing to that
Person.



 



   2.   International, etc., organizations.  No tax shall be imposed
under this section on any payment received for services furnished to a public
international organization in which the United States participates pursuant
to treaty or Act of Congress, or to the American National Red Cross.



 



   3.   Servicemen in combat zone.  No tax shall be imposed under this
section on any payment received for any toll telephone service, which
originates within a combat zone, as defined in Section 112 of Title 26 of the
United States Code, from a member of the Armed Forces of the United States
performing service in the combat zone, as determined under Section 112 of
Title 26 of the United States Code.



 



   4.   Items otherwise taxed.  Only one payment of tax under this
section shall be required with respect to the tax on any service.



 



   5.   Common carriers and communications companies.  No tax shall be
imposed under this section on the amount paid for any Communications Services
to the extent that the amount so paid is for use by a common carrier,
telephone or telegraph company, or radio broadcasting station or network in
the conduct of its business.



 



   6.   Installation charges.  No tax shall be imposed under this
section on any amount paid for the installation of any instrument, wire,
pole, switchboard, apparatus, or equipment as is properly attributable to the
installation.



 



   7.   Nonprofit hospitals.  No tax shall be imposed under this
section on any amount paid by a nonprofit hospital for services furnished to
that organization.  For purposes of this exemption, the term "nonprofit
hospital" means a hospital referred to in Section 170(b)(1)(A)(iii) of Title
26 of the United States Code, which is exempt from federal income tax under
Section 501(a) of Title 26 of the United States Code.



 



   8.   State and local governments.  No tax shall be imposed under
this section upon any payment received for services or facilities furnished
to the government of any State, or any of its political subdivisions, or the
District of Columbia.



 



   9.   Nonprofit educational organizations.  No tax shall be imposed
under this section on any amount paid by a nonprofit educational organization
for services or facilities furnished to that organization.  For purposes of
this exemption, the term "nonprofit educational organization" means an
educational organization described in Section 170(b)(1)(A)(ii) of Title 26 of
the United States Code, which is exempt from federal income tax under Section
501(a) of Title 26 of the United States Code.  The term also includes a
school operated as an activity of an organization described in Section
501(c)(3) of Title 26 of the United States Code, which is exempt from federal
income tax under Section 501(a) of Title 26 of the United States Code, if
that school normally maintains a regular facility and curriculum and normally
has a regularly enrolled body of pupils or students in attendance at the
place where its educational activities are regularly carried on.



 



   (e)   To prevent actual multiple taxation of any Communications
Services that are subject to tax under Subsection (a) of this section, any
Service User, upon proof that the Service User owed and has paid a tax in
another taxing jurisdiction on the Communications Services, shall be allowed
a credit against the tax imposed in Subsection (a) to the extent of the
amount of the tax properly due and paid in the other taxing jurisdiction. 
However, no credit may be allowed for any tax paid to another taxing
jurisdiction on any call to the extent that the call may not, under the
Constitution and statutes of the United States, be made the subject of
taxation by the other taxing jurisdiction.  Nor shall the amount of credit
exceed the tax owed to the City under this section.



 



   (f)   Any person claiming to be an independent telemarketing agency,
which has charges subject to tax at the five percent rate, shall file an
application for rate adjustment with the Director of Finance.  This
application shall be made on forms provided by the Director of Finance and
shall recite facts under oath which qualify the applicant for the five
percent tax rate.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, the
five percent rate shall apply only to charges for services that were
necessarily incurred solely and exclusively for telemarketing activities. 
The burden of maintaining records and establishing that this charge is
subject to tax at the five percent rate shall be on the applicant.  Charges
for all other services shall be subject to tax at the nine percent rate.



 



   (g)   For purposes of imposing a tax or establishing a duty to
collect and remit a tax under this section, "substantial nexus" and "minimum
contacts" shall be construed broadly in favor of the imposition, collection
and/or remittance of the communications users tax to the fullest extent
permitted by state and federal law, and as it may change from time to time by
judicial interpretation or by statutory enactment.  Any Communications
Services used by a Person with a service or billing address in the City shall
be subject to a rebuttable presumption that "substantial nexus / minimum
contacts" exists for purposes of imposing a tax, or establishing a duty to
collect and remit a tax, under this section.  For communications services
for which there is no billing address or primary physical location for the
provision of services, the service address shall mean the point of sale of
the services.



 



   (h)   If a non-taxable service and a taxable service are billed
together under a single charge, the entire charge shall be deemed taxable
unless the service supplier or taxpayer reasonably identifies actual charges
for services not subject to the tax.  The service supplier or taxpayer
seeking a reduction has the burden of proving the proper valuation and
apportionment of taxable and non-taxable charges based upon books and records
that are kept in the regular course of business and in a manner consistent
with generally accepted accounting principles.



 



* Note: Pursuant to the passage of Proposition S in a Special Election held
on February 5, 2008, Ordinance No. 179,686 was adopted by the Council of the
City of Los Angeles at its meeting of March 5, 2008.



 



 



SEC. 21.1.4.  ELECTRICITY USERS TAX.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 142,333, Eff. 9/30/71, Oper. 10/1/71.)



 



   (a)   There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the City of
Los Angeles using electrical energy in the City of Los Angeles. The tax
imposed  by this section shall be at the rate of 10 percent of the charges
made for such energy and shall be paid by the person paying for such energy,
provided, however, that commercial or industrial users of electrical energy
shall be subject to tax and a tax is hereby imposed upon them at the rate of
12.5 percent of the charges made for such energy, but  as to any non-profit
educational institution, as defined in Subdivision 3 of Subsection (c) of
Section 21.190 of this Code, the tax imposed by this section shall be at the
rate of 10 percent of the charges made for such energy.  (Second Sentence
Amended by Ord. No. 171,436, Eff. 1/10/97.)  “Charges” as used in this
section, shall include charges made for  (1)  metered energy, and  (2) 
minimum charges for service, including customer charges, service charges,
demand charges, standby charges, and annual and monthly charges.



 



   The term “commercial or industrial users” as used in this section,
is intended to include, but shall not be limited to, any person who qualifies
as a “commercial or industrial” consumer of electrical energy within the
electric rate schedules of the Department of Water and Power of the City of
Los Angeles or the tariff schedules of the Southern California Edison
company, provided however, a user of electrical energy shall not be
considered a “commercial or industrial user” of any electrical energy
supplied to a single family accommodation separately metered or for energy to
two or more individual family accommodations supplied as a unit, upon
application under the provisions of the Department’s Domestic Service
Schedule D–1, devoted primarily to domestic, residential, household and
related purposes, as distinguished from commercial, professional, and
industrial purposes.



 



   (b)   As used in this section, the term “using electrical
energy” shall not be construed to mean that storage of such energy by a
person in a battery owned or possessed by him for use in an automobile or
other machinery or device apart from the premises upon which the energy was
received, provided however, that the term shall include the receiving of such
energy for the purpose of using it in the charging of batteries, nor shall
the term include the mere receiving of such energy by an electric public
utility or government agency at a point within the City of Los Angeles for
resale.  (Amended by Ord. No. 135,276, Eff. 10/30/67.)



 



   (c)   The tax imposed in this section shall be collected from the
service user by the person supplying such energy. The amount of tax collected
from the 26th day of each month through the 25th day of the following month
shall be remitted to the Director of Finance on or before the 26th day of
such following month, or, at the option of the person required to collect and
remit the tax, an estimated amount of tax collected in each month shall be
remitted to the Director of Finance on or before the 26th day of such month.
(Amended by Ord. No. 156,573, Eff. 5/10/82)



 



 



SEC. 21.1.5.  GAS USER TAX.



 



   (a)   (Amended by Ord. No. 169,245, Eff. 1/15/94.)  There is hereby
imposed a tax upon every person in the City of Los Angeles using in the City
gas which is delivered through mains or pipes. The tax imposed by this
section shall be at the rate of 10 percent of the charges made for such gas
and shall be paid by the person paying for such gas, provided, however, that
as to any non-profit educational institution, as defined in subdivision 3 of
Subsection (c) of Section 21.190 of this Code, the tax imposed by this
section shall be at the rate of 5 percent of the charges made for such gas. 
(Second Sentence Amended by Ord. No. 171,436, Eff. 1/10/97.) When gas is
transported by, but not purchased from, a transporter, the charges subject to
tax shall be measured by  (1)  the transportation cost and  (2)  the cost
of the transported gas, which shall be based on the volume of gas transported
multiplied by the core subscription weighted average cost of gas for the
calendar month immediately preceding the calendar month in which the billing
period terminates.



 



   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the tax on the cost of transported gas
may be determined by applying the tax rate to the actual purchase cost,
either by the service user applying to the Director of Finance for a refund
or the Director of Finance billing the service user, for the amount which
represents the difference between the tax paid by the service user to the
transporter and the tax determined by the actual purchase cost of the gas. In
a claim for refund, the service user shall provide the Director of Finance
with satisfactory evidence of the quantity and cost of the gas purchased from
a party other than the transporter. When the Director of Finance believes
that direct collection of the tax from the service user is in the best
interest of the City, as provided in Subsection (b) of Section 21.1.10 of
this Code, the transporter, upon request from the Director of Finance, shall
furnish the Director of Finance, with respect to each service user for whom
gas is transported, the name, mailing address, service address, gas meter
number, transportation cost, volume of gas transported and the core
subscription weighted average cost of gas for the calendar month immediately
preceding the calendar month in which the billing period terminates. This
information shall be confidential and shall be used only for the purpose of
administering the tax.



 



   (b)   (Amended by Ord. No. 135,276, Eff. 10/30/67.) There shall be
excluded from the base on which the tax imposed in this section is computed
charges made for gas which is to be resold and delivered through main or
pipes, charges made for gas sold for use in the generation of electrical
energy by a public utility or a governmental agency; and charges made by a
gas public utility for gas used and consumed in the conduct of the business
of as public utilities.



 



   (c)   The tax imposed in this section shall be collected from the
service user by the person selling gas or, when gas is purchased from and
transported by separate persons, the tax shall be collected by the
transporter.  (1st Sentence Amended by Ord. No. 169,245, Eff. 1/15/94.) 
The amount of tax collected from the 26th day of each month through the 25th
day of the following month shall be remitted to the Director of Finance on or
before the 26th day of such following month, or, at the option of the person
required to collect and remit the tax, an estimated amount of tax collected,
measured by the billings of the previous month, shall be remitted to the
Director of Finance on or before the 26th day of each month.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 156,573, Eff. 5/10/82.)



 



   (d)   There shall be exempt from the base on which the tax imposed
in this section is computed charges made for gas used for non-utility
purposes.  For the purposes of this subsection, the term “gas used for
non-utility purposes” shall mean gas used as a raw material in a
manufactured product, and shall exclude gas used to produce light, heat or
power.  Any service user claiming an exemption under this subsection shall
file an application with the Director of Finance for such exemption.  Such
application shall be made upon forms supplied by the Director of Finance and
shall recite under oath facts  which qualify the applicant for an
exemption.  The Director of Finance shall review each such application,
certify as exempt such service determined to qualify therefor and notify each
affected service supplier that such exemption has been approved, stating the
name of the applicant, the address to which such exempt service is being
supplied, the account number, if any, and such other information as may be
necessary for the service supplier to remove the exempt service from the tax
billing procedure.  Upon receipt of such notice, the service supplier shall
not be required to continue to bill any further tax imposed by this section
for such exempt service until given further notice by the Director of
Finance.  (Added by Ord. No. 171,119, Eff. 7/21/96, Oper. 1/1/96.)



 



   (e)   (Added by Ord. No. 174,205, Eff. 9/29/01.)  Notwithstanding
the provisions of Subsection (a) of this section and Section 21.1.8(b) of
this article, the collection rate of the tax imposed in Subsection (a) of
this section at the rate of 10 percent shall be reduced temporarily for
residential users to 6 percent for the first four regular billing periods
ending on or after December 1, 2001, and on or before April 15, 2002.  For
all subsequent regular billing periods, the collection rate for residential
users shall revert to the 10 percent rate imposed in Subsection (a) of this
section.



 



 



SEC. 21.1.6.  INTEREST AND PENALTY.



 



   (a)   Taxes collected from a service user which are not remitted to
the Director of Finance on or before the due dates provided in this article
are delinquent.



 



   (b)   interest and penalties for delinquency in remittance of any
tax collected, or any deficiency determination shall attach and be paid by
the person required to collect and remit at the rates and in the same manner
as is provided in Sec. 21.05 of this chapter for delinquency in payment of
Business Tax.



 



   (c)   The Director of Finance shall have power to impose additional
penalties upon persons required to collect and remit taxes under the
provisions of this article article for fraud and negligence in reporting and
remitting in the same ,manner and at the same rates as.are provided in Sec.
21.05 of this chapter for such penalties upon persons required to pay
Business Tax.



 



   (d)   (Amended by Ord. No. 174,085, Eff. 8/19/01.)  For collection
purposes only, every penalty imposed and such interest as accrues under the
provisions of this section shall become a part of the tax herein required to
be remitted.



 



 



SEC. 21.1.7.  ACTIONS TO COLLECT.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 179,686*, Eff. 3/15/08.)



 



   Any tax required to be paid by a Service User under the provisions of
this article shall be deemed a debt owed by the Service User to the City. 
Any such tax collected from a Service User, which has not been remitted to
the Director of Finance, shall be deemed a debt owed to the City by the
Person required to collect and remit.  Any Person owing money to the City
under the provisions of this article shall be liable to an action brought in
the name of the City for the recovery of that amount.  In the event that a
service supplier required to collect and remit a tax under the provisions of
this article fails to do so in whole or in part, the amount of the unremitted
tax shall be deemed a debt owed by the service supplier to the City.



 



* Note: Pursuant to the passage of Proposition S in a Special Election held
on February 5, 2008, Ordinance No. 179,686 was adopted by the Council of the
City of Los Angeles at its meeting of March 5, 2008.



 



 



SEC. 21.1.8.  DUTY TO COLLECT – PROCEDURES.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 179,686*, Eff. 3/15/08.)



 



   The duty to collect and remit the taxes imposed by this article shall
be performed as set forth in this section.



 



   (a)   The tax shall be collected insofar as practicable at the same
time as and along with the charges made in accordance with the regular
billing practice.  If the amount paid by a Service User is less than the
full amount of the charge and tax that has accrued for the billing period, a
proportionate share of both the charge and the tax shall be deemed to have
been paid.



 



   (b)   The duty to collect tax from a Service User shall commence
with the beginning of the first regular billing period applicable to that
Person, which starts on or after the operative date of this article.  When
the rate of the tax is increased or decreased, the duty to collect at the new
rate shall commence with the beginning of the first regular billing periods
applicable to that Person, which starts on or after the effective date of the
new rate.  Where a Person receives more than one billing, one or more being
for different periods than another, the duty to collect shall arise
separately for each billing period.



 



* Note: Pursuant to the passage of Proposition S in a Special Election held
on February 5, 2008, Ordinance No. 179,686 was adopted by the Council of the
City of Los Angeles at its meeting of March 5, 2008.



 



 



SEC. 21.1.9.  ADDITIONAL POWERS AND DUTIES OF DIRECTOR OF FINANCE, ETC.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 179,686*, Eff. 3/15/08.)



 



   (a)   The Director of Finance shall have the power and duty, and is
hereby directed to enforce all of the provisions of this article.



 



   (b)   In administering and enforcing the provisions of this article,
the Director of Finance shall have the same powers and duties with respect to
collecting the tax provided in this article as he or she has under Section
21.15 of this chapter with respect to collecting the Business Tax.



 



   (c)   The provisions of Sections 21.17, 21.20 and 21.21 of this
chapter shall apply to the administration and collection of the tax imposed
under the provisions of this article in the same manner as they apply to the
administration and collection of the Business Tax.



 



   (d)   The Director of Finance may, from time to time, issue and
disseminate administrative agreements or rulings identifying those services
or Persons that are subject to the requirements imposed by this article,
deferring implementation or enforcement of requirements imposed by this
article or interpreting the provisions of this article.  These
administrative rulings shall be consistent with federal, state and local
law.  To the extent that the Director of Finance, or the City Attorney
pursuant to Section 21.31, determines that the tax imposed under this article
shall not be collected in full for any period of time from any particular
service suppliers or Service Users, that determination shall be considered an
exercise of the Director's discretion to settle disputes and shall not
constitute a change in taxing methodology for purposes of Government Code
section 53750 or otherwise.  Neither the Director of Finance nor the City
Attorney is authorized to amend the City's methodology for purposes of
Government Code section 53750 and the City does not waive or abrogate its
ability to impose the communications users tax in full as a result of
promulgating administrative rulings or entering into agreements.



 



* Note: Pursuant to the passage of Proposition S in a Special Election held
on February 5, 2008, Ordinance No. 179,686 was adopted by the Council of the
City of Los Angeles at its meeting of March 5, 2008.



 



 



SEC. 21.1.10.  ASSESSMENT – ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDY.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 136,861, Eff. 8/19/68.)



 



   (a)   The Director of Finance may make an assessment for taxes not
remitted by a person required to remit for any reason specified in Sec. 21.16
of this chapter for making an assessment for unpaid Business Tax. The manner
of making and providing notice of such assessment; the right to a hearing and
the conduct of such hearing; the preparation and service of findings; filing
exceptions; and passing upon exceptions shall be the same as provided in Sec.
21.16 of this chapter.



 



   (b)   Whenever the Director of Finance determines that a service
user has deliberately withheld the amount of the tax owed by him from the
amounts remitted to a person required to collect the tax, or that a service
user has failed to pay the amount of the tax to such person for a period of
two or more billing periods, or whenever the Director of Finance deems it in
the best interests of the City, he may relieve such person of the obligation
to collect taxes due under this article from certain named service users for
specified billing periods. The Office of Finance shall notify the service
user that he has assumed responsibility to collect the taxes due for the
stated periods and demand payment of such taxes. (Sentence Amended by Ord.
No. 173,587, Eff. 12/7/00.)  The notice shall be served on the service user
by handing it to him personally or by deposit of the notice in the United
States mail, postage prepaid thereon, addressed to the service user at the
address to which billing was made by the person required to collect the tax;
or, should the service user have changed his address, to his last known
address. If a service user fails to remit the tax to the Director of Finance
within fifteen days from the date of the service of the notice upon him,
which shall be the date of mailing if service is not accomplished in person,
a penalty of twenty-five percent of the amount of the tax set forth in the
notice shall be imposed, but not less than $5.00. The penalty shall become
part of the tax herein required to be paid.



 



 



SEC. 21.1.11.  RECORDS.



 



   It shall be the duty of every person required to collect and remit to
the City any tax imposed by this article to keep and preserve, for a period
of three years, all records as may be necessary to determine the amount of
such tax as he may have been liable for the collection of and remittance to
the Director of Finance, which records the Clerk shall have the right to
inspect at all reasonable times.



 



 



SEC. 21.1.12.  EXEMPTIONS AND REFUNDS.



   (Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 179,686*, Eff. 3/15/08.)



 



   (a)   The tax imposed by this article shall not apply to any
individual 62 years of age or older or any disabled individual who uses
Communications Services, electric, or gas services in or upon any premises
occupied by that individual, provided the combined adjusted gross income (as
used for purposes of the California Personal Income Tax Law) of all members
of the household in which the individual resided was less than the figure in
effect on the preceding first day of April as the "very low income"
limitation for a family of two persons in the City of Los Angeles under the
Section 8 housing programs of the United States Housing Act of 1937, as
amended, as published by the United States Department of Housing and Urban
Development.



 



   For the purposes of this section, an individual shall be considered to
be disabled if he or she is unable to engage in any substantial gainful
activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental
impairment, which can be expected to result in death, or to be of
long-continued and indefinite duration.



 



   The exemption granted by this section shall not eliminate the duty of
the service supplier from collecting taxes from the exempt individuals or the
duty of the exempt individuals from paying those taxes to the service
supplier unless the Service User applies for an exemption and the Director of
Finance grants the exemption in accordance with the provisions of Subsection
(b).



 



   For each fiscal year, the Director of Finance is directed to determine,
and utilize as the prior calendar year's adjusted gross income limitation,
the figure in effect on the preceding first day of April as the "very low
income" limitation for a family of two persons in the City of Los Angeles
under the Section 8 housing programs of the United States Housing Act of
1937, as amended, as published by the United States Department of Housing and
Urban Development.



 



   (b)   Any Service User exempt from the taxes imposed by this article
because of the provisions of Subsection (a) above or any other applicable
exemption, may file an application with the Director of Finance for an
exemption.  The applications shall be made upon forms supplied by the
Director of Finance and shall recite facts under oath, which qualify the
applicant for an exemption.  The Director of Finance shall review all
applications and certify as exempt those applicants determined to qualify and
shall notify all service suppliers affected that the exemption has been
approved, stating the name of the applicant, the address to which the exempt
service is being supplied, the account number, if any, and any other
information as may be necessary for the service supplier to remove the exempt
Service User from its tax billing procedure.  Upon receipt of this notice,
the service supplier shall not be required to continue to bill any further
tax imposed by this article from the exempt Service User until further notice
by the Director of Finance is given.  The service supplier shall eliminate
the exempt Service User from its tax billing procedure no later than 60 days
after the receipt of the notice from the Director of Finance.



 



   All applications for exemption for any given fiscal year shall be filed
with the Director of Finance on or before the 30th day of April preceding the
fiscal year.  All exemptions shall continue and be renewed automatically by
the Director of Finance so long as the prerequisite facts supporting the
initial qualification for exemption shall continue.  Upon any change in the
service address or residence of the exempt individual, the service supplier,
at its option, may either terminate the exemption immediately or continue the
exemption until notified by the Director of Finance that the exempt
individual has not filed an application for continuation of exemption within
90 days after the change in the service address or residence.  Each
individual exempt from the tax may apply to the Director of Finance for a new
or continued exemption with each change of address or residence.  Any
individual exempt from the tax shall notify the Director of Finance within
ten days of any change of fact or circumstance, which might disqualify the
individual from receiving the exemption.  It shall be a misdemeanor for any
Person to knowingly receive the benefits of the exemption provided by this
section when the basis for the exemption does not exist or ceases to exist.



 



   Notwithstanding any of the provisions of this subsection, however, any
service supplier who determines by any means that a new or nonexempt Service
User is receiving service through a meter or connection exempt by virtue of
an exemption issued to a previous user or exempt user of the same meter or
connection, that service supplier shall immediately notify the Director of
Finance of that fact and the Director of Finance shall conduct an
investigation to ascertain whether or not the provisions of this section have
been complied with, and where appropriate, order the service supplier to
commence collecting the tax from the nonexempt Service User.



 



   Applications for exemptions may be filed during any given fiscal year,
for the remaining portion of the fiscal year, provided the application is
filed not later than the 60th day prior to the commencement of the billing
period for the affected utility companies for which the exemption is to
commence and shall be valid through the remainder of that fiscal year, as set
forth above.



 



   (c)   Individuals 62 years of age or older and disabled individuals,
any individual entitled to be exempt from the taxes imposed by this article
pursuant to Subsection (a) who used telephone, electric or gas services and
paid more than $3.00 in those taxes may, within 12 Months of the date of
payment, apply for a refund on forms provided by the Director of Finance. 
The refund application shall contain a declaration of those facts, under oath
that qualify the applicant for a refund, and shall also be accompanied by the
customer's original bills showing the amount of the taxes billed by service
suppliers during the preceding year.  Likewise, refund claims may be filed
by an individual who used telephone, electric and gas service and paid the
taxes prescribed by this article either directly or indirectly to the Service
User rather than the service supplier.



 



   In the event the applicant has lost or destroyed any relevant billings
or statements showing the amount of tax paid, or if the applicant indirectly
paid the taxes in conjunction with the occupation of any premises without
receiving a specific billing from the Service User, or if the applicant has
been granted an exemption during the year preceding the filing of the refund
claim, the maximum refund shall be $18.00, or $1.50 for each full Month of
service received by the applicant, whichever is less.



 



   (d)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, refunds of
overpaid taxes shall be made in the same manner as is provided in Section
21.07 of this chapter for refunds of overpayments in Business Taxes.



 



   (e)   A Person required to collect and remit taxes imposed under
this article may claim a refund or take as credit against taxes collected and
remitted the amounts overpaid, paid more than once or erroneously or
illegally collected or received when it is established in a manner prescribed
by the Director of Finance that the Service User from whom the tax has been
collected did not owe the tax; provided, however, that neither a refund nor a
credit shall be allowed unless the amount of the tax so collected has either
been refunded to the Service User or credited to charges subsequently payable
by the Service User to the Person required to collect and remit.



 



   (f)   If any application for an exemption or refund as permitted to
be filed by this section is determined to be deficient by the Director of
Finance for failure to set forth the facts necessary to qualify the applicant
for an exemption or refund or if the Director of Finance has reason to
believe the applicant has failed to truthfully set forth those facts, the
Director may deny the application by giving written notice of the denial and
by stating in the notice the grounds for the denial and mailing the notice in
a sealed envelope, postage prepaid, addressed to the applicant at the address
shown upon the application.  The applicant shall thereafter have a right to
a hearing with the Director of Finance in accordance with a hearing procedure
to be established by the Director.



 



   (g)   No exemption or refund shall be granted pursuant to this
section with respect to any tax imposed by this article, which is or has been
paid by a public agency or where the applicant receives funds from a public
agency specifically for the payment of the tax.



 



   (h)   If an individual is delinquent in the payment of any utility
users tax at the time his claim for refund is filed, the Director of Finance
shall apply the refund or as much of the refund as may be necessary to
satisfy the delinquency.



 



   (i)   The tax imposed by this article shall not apply to
communication, electric and gas services acquired by any nonprofit
corporation for the use of its tenants in any housing project in which at
least 80 percent of the dwelling units are occupied by a person meeting the
requirements for exemption under Subsection (a) of this section.



 



   (j)   Upon request of the Director of Finance, a service supplier
shall provide a list of the names and addresses of those customers that,
according to its billing records, are exempt from a tax imposed by this
article.



 



   (k)   To the extent that the City's authorization to impose or
collect the tax imposed in this article is expanded or limited as a result of
changes in state or federal law, no amendment or modification of this article
shall be required to conform the tax to those changes, and the tax shall be
imposed and collected to the full extent of the City's authorization up to
the full amount of the tax imposed by the terms of this article.



 



* Note: Pursuant to the passage of Proposition S in a Special Election held
on February 5, 2008, Ordinance No. 179,686 was adopted by the Council of the
City of Los Angeles at its meeting of March 5, 2008.



 



 



SEC. 21.1.13.  AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.



   (Added by Ord. No. 179,686*, Eff. 3/15/08.)



 



   This Communications Users Tax imposed by this article may be decreased,
repealed or amended by the City Council, but may not be increased without a
vote of the people as required in California Constitution Article XIIIC and
California Government Code Section 53750(h).



 



* Note: Pursuant to the passage of Proposition S in a Special Election held
on February 5, 2008, Ordinance No. 179,686 was adopted by the Council of the
City of Los Angeles at its meeting of March 5, 2008.



 



 



SEC. 21.1.14.  AUDIT OF COMMUNICATIONS USERS TAX.



   (Added by Ord. No. 179,686*, Eff. 3/15/08.)



 



   The City shall annually verify that the Communications Users Tax
imposed by this article has been properly collected and remitted in
accordance with this article, and properly expended according to applicable
law.  The annual verification shall be performed under the direction of the
Director of Finance by a qualified independent third party employing
reasonable, cost-effective procedures.



 



* Note: Pursuant to the passage of Proposition S in a Special Election held
on February 5, 2008, Ordinance No. 179,686 was adopted by the Council of the
City of Los Angeles at its meeting of March 5, 2008.



 



 



SEC. 21.1.15.  SEVERABILITY.



   (Added by Ord. No. 179,686*, Eff. 3/15/08.)



 



   If any portion of this ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid
or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining portions
of this ordinance shall remain in effect.  The people of the City of Los
Angeles hereby declare that they would have adopted each portion of this
ordinance, notwithstanding the fact that any one or more portions of this
ordinance is declared invalid or unenforceable and, to that end, the
provisions of this ordinance are severable.



 



* Note: Pursuant to the passage of Proposition S in a Special Election held
on February 5, 2008, Ordinance No. 179,686 was adopted by the Council of the
City of Los Angeles at its meeting of March 5, 2008.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 1.2
1984 OLYMPIC GAMES TICKET DISTRIBUTION TAX



 




(Added by Ord. No. 150,802 Eff. 6/5/78.)




 



 



Section



21.2.1   Definitions.



21.2.2   Imposition of Tax.



21.2.3   Time of Reporting and Payment.



21.2.4   Manner of Reporting.



21.2.5   Interest and Penalty.



21.2.6   Actions to Collect.



21.2.7   Additional Powers and Duties of Director of Finance.



21.2.8   Assessment – Administrative Remedy.



21.2.9   Records.



21.2.10   Refunds.



 



 



SEC. 21.2.1.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   Except where the context otherwise requires, the definitions set forth
in this section shall govern the construction of this article:



 



   (a)   “Admission” shall include every act of entry by a person
to any portion of any premises.



 



   (b)   “Attend” shall include the terms listen, observe, see,
view, witness, watch, enjoy, or be present at.



 



   (c)   “Distribution” shall include sale or any other transfer of
ownership or possession of any ticket.



 



   (d)   “Event” shall include any exhibition, fair, sport,
meeting, performance, race, demonstration, broadcast, entertainment, motion
picture, show, feature, play, contest, game, or attraction, which is part of
the 1984 Olympic Games.



 



   (e)   “Gross receipts” shall mean and include only the amount of
the price thereof stated on each ticket of admission to any premises or
attendance at any event. (Amended by Ord. No. 158,589, Eff. 1/29/84.)



 



   (f)   “Person” shall include any individual, firm, association,
organization, partnership, joint venture, social club, joint stock company,
corporation, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate, or
any other group or combination acting as a unit.



 



   (g)   “Premise” shall include any property, building, structure,
enclosure, location or place, whether improved or not, at, in, or upon which
any event is conducted, or at or from which any event may be attended.



 



   (h)   “Promoting” shall include conducting, operating or staging
the 1984 Olympic Games.



 



   (i)   “Ticket” shall include any ticket, pass, certificate,
book, card, insignia, or other device, authority or token, the ownership or
possession of which entitles the owner or holder thereof to admission to or
attendance at any event.



 



 



SEC. 21.2.2.  IMPOSITION OF TAX.



 



   (a)   For the privilege of distributing any ticket of admission to
or attendance at any event which is part of the 1984 Olympic Games, a tax is
hereby imposed on every person distributing any such ticket and promoting
said Olympic Games.



 



   (b)   The tax imposed hereby shall be at the rate of six percent
(6%) of the gross receipts attributable to distribution of tickets of
admission to or attendance at events of the 1984 Olympic Games.



 



 



SEC. 21.2.3.  TIME OF REPORTING AND PAYMENT.



 



   On or before the last day of the calendar month following the close of
each calendar month, every person required to pay the tax imposed by this
article shall render a statement to the Director of Finance, in the manner
provided in Section 21.2.4, of all gross receipts attributable to the
distribution of tickets of admission to or attendance at Olympic events
during the calendar month preceding such statement. At the time each
statement is filed, the full amount of tax, plus any interest and penalties
due under this article for the period covered by such statement shall be paid
to the Director of Finance.



 



 



SEC. 21.2.4.  MANNER OF REPORTING.



 



   At the time required by Section 21.2.3, every person required to pay
the tax imposed by this article shall file with the Director of Finance, in
such form and manner as may be prescribed by or acceptable to the Director of
Finance, a written statement setting forth the period of time covered
therein, the total amount of gross receipts subject to tax for such period,
the total amount of tax due under this article, and such other information as
may be required by the Director of Finance to permit a complete audit and
examination of the books and records supporting the contents of such
statement. Such statement shall be dated and subscribed by the individual
responsible therefor, whose capacity shall be indicated, who shall declare or
certify under penalty of perjury that the information contained therein is,
to the best of such individual’s information, knowledge and belief, true
and correct.



 



 



SEC. 21.2.5.  INTEREST AND PENALTY.



 



   (a)   Taxes which are not paid to the Director of Finance on or
before the due date of the statement within which they are to be included
under this article shall be delinquent.



 



   (b)   Interest and penalties for delinquency in payment of any tax
owing or any deficiency determination shall attach and be paid by the person
required to pay at the rates and in the manner as is provided in Section
21.05 of this chapter for delinquency in payment of business tax.



 



   (c)   Every penalty imposed and such interest as accrues under the
provisions of this section shall become a part of the tax required to be paid.



 



 



SEC. 21.2.6.  ACTIONS TO COLLECT.



 



   Any tax required to be paid under the provisions of this article shall
be deemed a debt owed to the City by the person required to pay such tax. Any
person owing such tax to the City shall be liable to an action brought in the
name of the City for recovery of such amount of tax.



 



 



SEC. 21.2.7.  ADDITIONAL POWERS AND DUTIES OF DIRECTOR OF FINANCE.



 



   (a)   The Director of Finance shall have the power and duty, and is
hereby directed to enforce each and all of the provisions of this article.



 



   (b)   In administering and enforcing the provisions of this article,
the Director of Finance shall have the same powers and duties with respect to
collecting the tax provided herein as the Director of Finance has under
Section 21.15 of this chapter with respect to collecting the business tax.



 



 



SEC. 21.2.8.  ASSESSMENT – ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDY.



 



   Whenever the Director of Finance determines that any tax is or may be
due to the City under the provisions of this article, the Director of Finance
may make and give notice of an assessment of such tax. The manner of making
and providing notice of such assessment, the right to a hearing, the manner
of providing for and conducting such hearing, the preparation and service of
the decision and the manner of filing and passing upon exceptions shall be
the same as provided in Section 21.16 of this chapter.



 



 



SEC. 21.2.9.  RECORDS.



 



   It shall be the duty of every person required to pay the tax imposed by
this article to keep and preserve for a period of four (4) years all records
as may be necessary to determine the amount of such tax as such person may
have been liable to pay to the City, which records the Director of Finance
shall have the right to inspect at all reasonable times.



 



 



SEC. 21.2.10.  REFUNDS.



 



   Whenever the amount of any tax has been overpaid or paid more than once
or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the City under
this article, refund of such amount shall be made in the same manner as is
provided in Section 21.07 of this chapter for refunds of overpayments of
business tax.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 1.3
COMMERCIAL TENANT’S OCCUPANCY TAX



 




(Added by Ord. No. 140,705, Eff. 9/10/70, Oper. 1/1/71.)




 



 



Section



21.3.1   Constitutional Exemptions.



21.3.2   Definitions.



21.3.3   Tax Imposed.



21.3.4   Exemptions.



21.3.5   Duty to Collect and Remit Tax.



21.3.6   Interest and Penalty.



21.3.7   Actions to Collect.



21.3.8   Additional Powers and Duties of the Director of Finance.



21.3.9   Assessment – Administrative Remedy.



21.3.10   Records.



21.3.11   Refunds.



 



 



SEC. 21.3.1.  CONSTITUTIONAL EXEMPTIONS.



 



   Nothing in this ordinance shall be construed as imposing a tax upon any
person when imposition of such a tax upon that person would be in violation
of the Constitution of the United States or that of the State of California.



 



 



SEC. 21.3.2.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   (a)   For the purposes of this article, the terms hereafter defined
shall have the following meanings:



 



   Person shall mean any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture,
association, social club, fraternal organization, joint stock company,
corporation, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate, or
any other group or combination acting as a unit.



 



   (b)   Lessor shall include a sub-lessor, a licensor or a person
granting a concession.



 



   (c)   Tenant and Tenancy shall include tenants and tenancies of all
types, and persons occupying and the occupation of a building or structure,
or space in a building or structure, or a boat slip or mooring, under any
license or any concession agreement with a lessor. The right to use or
possess such space shall be deemed to be the same as actual occupation. 
(First Sentence Amended by Ord. No. 163,754, Eff 7/16/88.)



 



   (d)   Casual Tenant and Casual Tenancy shall mean any tenant or
tenancy where the consideration paid or agreed to be paid consists
exclusively of services; or where, after examining all the facts, the
Director of Finance determines that the only tenancy is that of one or more
tenants paying to a sub-lessor primarily on a cost-sharing basis for the
space used involving less than 25% of the space under the control of the
sub-lessor and is terminable at will.



 



   (e)   Charges shall include all amounts paid by a tenant to a lessor
for services performed, or materials used, or utilities or facilities
furnished by the lessor on the premises or in connection with the tenant’s
use, possession, or the right to possess the premises. Charges shall also
include any charges paid by a tenant to a lessor for the use or possession of
land, or the right to use or possess land other than that upon which the
building or structure is located but which is used or possessed or is
available for use or possession by a tenant for purposes related to his
tenancy. Charges shall also include all amounts paid as prepaid rent.



 



 



SEC. 21.3.3.  TAX IMPOSED.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 141,620, Eff. 4/3/71.)



 



   For the privilege of occupancy as hereafter described, an excise tax is
hereby imposed on every tenant renting a building or structure of any kind on
land located in the City of Los Angeles from a lessor for purposes other than
dwelling, sleeping or lodging, or renting space or the use or possession of
space, or the right to use or possess space in such a building or structure
for such purposes, and upon every tenant renting a boat slip or mooring, at
the rate of $1.48 per calendar quarter or fractional part thereof for the
first $1,000.00 or less of charges attributable to said calendar quarter,
plus $1.48 per calendar quarter for each additional $1,000.00 of charges or
fractional part thereof in excess of $1,000.00. For the purposes of this
article, the privilege of occupancy shall, unless an exemption or partial
exemption is provided herein, include renting by a tenant of every kind and
character, without regard to the length of the term of the tenancy or the
date of its commencement, expiration or renewal. A tenant otherwise subject
to the tax imposed herein shall not be exempt therefrom by reason of the fact
that one or more persons may reside within the building or structure where
either the primary purpose of the particular tenancy or the primary use or
right of use by the particular tenant is for some purpose other than
dwelling, sleeping or lodging. Nor shall a tenant otherwise subject to the
tax imposed herein be exempt therefrom by reason of the act that he proposes
to operate or does in fact operate the building or structure as a premises
for a business subject to tax under Sec. 21.99 of this chapter. (First
Sentence Amended by Ord. No. 166,204, Eff. 10/11/90, Oper. 1/1/91.)



 



 



SEC. 21.3.4.  EXEMPTIONS.



 



   Tenants holding the following kinds of tenancies are exempt from the
tax imposed by this article.



 



   (a)   Tenants to the extent they become so by placing goods in a
warehouse or similar structure for storage or safekeeping.



 



   (b)   Tenants to the extent they became so by parking or storing an
automobile in a building or structure.



 



   (c)   Tenants to the extent they become so by being admitted to a
theater, exhibition hall or any similar place of public assemblage or
entertainment.



 



   (d)   Casual tenants.



 



   (e)   Tenants to the extent they become so by placing coin-operated
machines and devices on or within a premises under the control of the lessor.



 



   (f)   Tenants of a person subject to taxation for engaging within
the City of Los Angeles in a business described in Sec. 21.98 of this chapter.



 



   (g)   Tenants conducting, operating, promoting, or sponsoring a bona
fide trade show, as is defined in Section 21.168.4 of Article 1 of Chapter 2,
where the show does not exceed 14 days, and their tenants.  (Added by Ord.
No. 147,632, Eff. 10/2/75.)



 



   (h)   Tenants to the extent they become so by being exhibitors at an
antique show or collectors’ exchange show or vendors at a swap meet. (Added
by Ord. No. 161,524, Eff. 8/17/86.)



 



   (i)   Tenants to the extent they become so by using a boat slip or
mooring exclusively for commercial purposes.  (Added by Ord, No. 163,754,
Eff. 7/16/88.)



 



 



SEC. 21.3.5.  DUTY TO COLLECT AND REMIT TAX.



 



   (a)   The tax imposed by this article shall be collected from the
tenant by the lessor. The amount of tax collected in one calendar quarter
shall be remitted to the Director of Finance on or before the last day of the
month following the close of each calendar quarter. The tax shall be
collected insofar as practicable at the same time as and along with the
charges made in accordance with the lessor’s regular billing practice. If
the amount paid by a tenant is less than the full amount of the charge and
the tax which has accrued for the billing period, a proportionate share of
both the charge and the tax shall be deemed to have been paid.



 



   (b)   The duty to collect tax from a tenant shall commence with the
first payment of charges by the tenant on or after the operative date of this
article.



 



 



SEC. 21.3.6.  INTEREST AND PENALTY.



 



   (a)   Taxes collected from a tenant which are not remitted to the
Director of Finance on or before the due dates provided in this article are
delinquent. Taxes payable hereunder for periods other than quarterly periods
shall be deemed delinquent at the times designated by the Director of Finance
in his rules and regulations.



 



   (b)   Interest and penalties for delinquency in remittance of any
tax collected, or any deficiency determination shall attach and be paid by
the person required to collect and remit at the rates and in the same manner
as is provided in Sec. 21.05 of this chapter for delinquency in payment of
Business Tax.



 



   (c)   The Director of Finance shall have power to impose additional
penalties upon persons required to collect and remit taxes under the
provisions of this Article for fraud or negligence in reporting and remitting
in the same manner and at the same rates as are provided in Sec. 21.05 of
this Chapter for such penalties upon persons required to pay Business Tax.



 



   (d)   (Amended by Ord. No. 174,085, Eff. 8/19/01.)  For collection
purposes only, every penalty imposed and such interest as accrues under the
provisions of this section shall become a part of the tax herein required to
be remitted.



 



 



SEC. 21.3.7.  ACTIONS TO COLLECT.



 



   Any tax required to be  paid by a tenant under the provisions of this
article shall be deemed a debt owed by the tenant to the City. Any such tax
collected from a tenant which has not been remitted to the Director of
Finance shall be deemed a debt owed to the City by the person required to
collect and remit. Any person owing money to the City under the provisions of
this article shall be liable to an action brought in the name of the City for
the recovery of such amount.



 



 



SEC. 21.3.8.  ADDITIONAL POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE DIRECTOR OF FINANCE.



 



   (a)   The Director of Finance shall have the power and duty and is
hereby directed to enforce each and all of the provisions of this article.



 



   (b)   In administering and enforcing the provisions of this article,
the Director of Finance shall have the same powers and duties with respect to
collecting the tax provided herein as he has under Sec. 21.15 of this chapter
with respect to collecting the Business Tax.



 



   (c)   The provisions of Sections 21.17, 21.20, and 21.21 of this
chapter shall apply to the administration and collection of the tax imposed
under the provisions of this article in the same manner as they apply to the
administration and collection of the Business Tax.



 



   (d)   Where the Director of Finance determines that efficiency in
the administration of the tax would be promoted, he may establish reporting
periods greater than quarterly, but not to exceed one year, for lessors who
rent only occasionally. The Director of Finance may establish shorter
reporting periods for any lessor if he deems it necessary in order to insure
collection of the tax.



 



 



SEC. 21.3.9.  ASSESSMENT – ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDY.



 



   (a)   The Director of Finance may make an assessment for taxes not
remitted by a person required to remit for any reason specified in Sec. 21.16
of this chapter for making an assessment for unpaid Business Tax. The Manner
of making and providing notice of such assessment the right to a hearing and
the conduct of such hearing; the preparation and service of findings, filing
exceptions, and passing upon exceptions shall be the same as provided in Sec.
21.16 of this chapter.



 



 



SEC. 21.3.10.  RECORDS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 173, 587, Eff. 12/7/00.)



 



   Each person required to collect any tax imposed by this article must
keep, for a period of four years, all records necessary to determine the
amount of the tax that he or she was responsible for collecting.  The Office
of Finance has a right to inspect those records at any reasonable time.



 



 



SEC. 21.3.11.  REFUNDS.



 



   (a)   Whenever the amount of any tax has been overpaid or paid more
than once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the
Director of Finance under this article it may be refunded as provided in this
section. Except as otherwise provided in this section, refunds of overpaid
taxes shall be made in the same manner as provided in Sec. 21.07 of this
chapter for refunds of overpayments in Business Taxes.



 



   (b)   A person required to collect and remit taxes imposed under
this article may claim a refund or take as credit against taxes collected and
remitted the amount overpaid, paid more than once or erroneously or illegally
collected or received when it is established in a manner prescribed by the
Director of Finance that the tenant from whom the tax has been collected did
not owe the tax; provided, however, that neither a refund nor a credit shall
be allowed unless the amount of the tax so collected has either been refunded
to the tenant or credited to charges subsequently payable by the tenant to
the person required to collect and remit.



 



   (c)   No refund shall be paid under the provisions of this section
unless the claimant establishes his right thereto by written records showing
entitlement thereto.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 1.5
USE TAX [Suspended]



 




(Added by Ord. No. 90,806, Eff. 8/19/46; Suspended by Ord. No. 107,030,
adding Art. 1.6 to Code, Eff. 4/1/56)




 



 



Section



21.5.01   Title.



21.5.02   Definitions.



21.5.03   Use Tax – Imposition.



21.5.04   Levy Similar to State Sales and Use Tax Law.



21.5.05   Tax Levy – Provisions of.



21.5.06   Prior Purchase Exemption.



21.5.07   Authorization of Collections.



21.5.08   Personal Property – Tax Liability.



21.5.09   Collection by Retailer.



21.5.10   Separate Listing of Tax.



21.5.11   Agents – Registration of.



21.5.12   Exempted Purchases.



21.5.13   Re-sale Certificate.



21.5.14   Commingled Goods.



21.5.15   Returns, Contents of.



21.5.16   Delinquencies and Extensions.



21.5.18   Administration and Enforcement.



21.5.19   Inclusion of State Clauses.



21.5.20   False or Fraudulent Returns.



21.5.21   Validity of Article.



 



 



SEC. 21.5.01.  TITLE.



 



   This article is known and may be cited as the Use Tax Ordinance for the
City of Los Angeles.



 



 



SEC. 21.5.02.  DEFINITIONS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 136,867, Operative 9/1/68 by Ord. No. 137,011.)



 



   The following words and phrases, whenever used in this article shall be
construed as defined in this section unless it appears from the context that
a different meaning is intended.



 



   (a)   “Sales Price” means that total amount for which tangible
personal property is sold, valued in money, whether paid in money or
otherwise, without any deduction on account of any of the following:



 



   1.   The cost of the property sold;



 



   2.   The cost of materials used, labor or service cost, interest
charged, losses, or any other expenses;



 



   3.   The cost of transportation of the property prior to its
purchase, except as excluded by other provisions of this section.



 



   The total amount for which the property is sold includes all of the
following:



 



   1.   Any services that are a part of the sale;



 



   2.   Any amount for which credit is given to the purchaser by the
seller.



 



   3.   The amount of any tax imposed by the State of California that
is conclusively presumed to be a direct tax on the retail consumer
precollected by the seller for the purpose of convenience and facility only.



 



   “Sales Price” does not include any of the following:



 



   1.   Cash discounts allowed and taken on sales;



 



   2.   The amount charged for property returned by customers when that
entire amount is refunded either in cash or credit, but this exclusion shall
not apply in any instance when the customer, in order to obtain the refund is
required to purchase other property at a price greater than the amount
charged for the property that is returned. For the purpose of this section
refund or credit of the entire amount shall be deemed to be given when the
purchase price less rehandling and restocking costs are refunded or credited
to the customer.



 



   3.   The amount charged for labor or services rendered in installing
or applying the property sold.



 



   4.   The amount of any federal tax, (not including, however, any
manufacturers’ or importers’ excise tax) imposed upon or with respect to
retail sales whether imposed upon the retailer or upon the consumer and
regardless of whether or not the amount of federal tax is stated to customers
as a separate charge, and the amount of any California State or local sales
or use tax.



 



   5.   Separately stated charges for transportation from the
retailer’s place of business or other point from which shipment is made
directly to the purchaser, but the exclusion shall not exceed a reasonable
charge for transportation by facilities of the retailer or the cost to the
retailer of transportation by other than facilities of the retailer;
provided, that if the transportation is by facilities of the retailer, or the
property is sold for a delivered price, this exclusion shall be applicable
solely with respect to transportation which occurs after the purchase of the
property is made.



 



   6.   The amount of any motor vehicle fee or tax imposed by and paid
to the State of California that has been added to or is measured by a stated
percentage of the sales or purchase price of a motor vehicle.



 



   (b)   “Use” includes the exercise of any right or power over
tangible personal property incident to the ownership of that property
subject, however, to the following exceptions:



 



   1.   It does not include the sale of that property in the regular
course of business.



 



   2.   It does not include the keeping, retaining or exercising of any
right or power over tangible personal property shipped or brought into this
City and which is thereafter transported outside the City for principal use
or consumption outside the City, and which property is actually so used or
consumed.



 



   3.   It does not include the use of such property for the purpose of
being processed, fabricated, or manufactured into, attached to or
incorporated into, other tangible personal property which is to be
transported outside the City and thereafter used principally outside the
City, or which is to be subsequently sold or resold in the regular course of
business.



 



   4.   It does not include the exercise of any right or power over
tangible personal property incident to ownership of that property if such
property is shipped to a point outside this City pursuant to the contract of
sale by delivery by the retailer to such a point by means of



 



   (A)   facilities operated by the retailer;



 



   (B)   delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a
consignee at such point; or



 



   (C)   delivery by the retailer to a customer’s broker or
forwarding agent for shipment outside this City; or such property sold to
purchasers engaged in business wholly or partly outside the City of Los
Angeles where the property is to be transported outside the City without
undue delay; to be used only outside the City in such business. The purchaser
shall deliver to the seller such certificate or other evidence of the
proposed transportation and use mentioned herein as may be required by the
rules and regulations of the Director of Finance.



 



 



SEC. 21.5.03.  USE TAX – IMPOSITION.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 137,130, Oper. 10/1/68.)



 



   An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other
consumption in this City of tangible personal property purchased from any
retailer on or after October 1, 1968, to and including March 31,1969, for
storage, use or other consumption in the City of Los Angeles, at the rate of
one percent of the sales price of the property.



 



   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, no excise tax
is imposed by this section where the sales price of tangible personal
property purchased for storage, use or other consumption in the City of Los
Angeles was fixed pursuant to a contract of sale actually executed in good
faith prior to October 1,1968.



 



 



SEC. 21.5.04.  LEVY SIMILAR TO STATE SALES AND USE TAX LAW.



 



   The tax hereby levied, except as otherwise provided is levied in the
same manner and to the same extent and under the same conditions as use taxes
are levied pursuant to Part 1 of Division 2 of the California Revenue and
Taxation Code, known as the “Sales and Use Tax Law,” as amended and in
force and effect on October 1, 1968. (Amended by Ord. No. 137,130, Operative
10/1/68.)



 



 



SEC. 21.5.05.  TAX LEVY – PROVISIONS OF.



 



   (a)   All of the provisions of the Sales and Use Tax Law, Part 1,
Division 2, of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California, as
amended and in force and effect on October 1, 1968, except the provisions
pertaining solely to the sales tax and Sections 6001 to 6004, inclusive,
6008, 6009, 6010.5, 6011, 6201 to 6204, inclusive, 6206, 6207, 6226, 6241 to
6246, inclusive, 6271 to 6292, inclusive, 6453, 6459, 6470, 6481 to 6592,
inclusive, 6701 to 6828, inclusive, 6901 to 6981, inclusive, 7051 to 7057,
inclusive, 7101 to 7154, inclusive, and 7176 are hereby adopted and made a
part of this section as though fully set forth herein, and all provisions of
the Los Angeles Municipal Code in conflict therewith are inapplicable to this
article and the tax hereby imposed. (Amended by Ord. No. 137,130, Operative
10/1/68.)



 



   (b)   The word “storage,” as used in this article includes any
keeping or retention in the City for any purpose except sale in the regular
course of business or subsequent use solely outside the City of tangible
personal property purchased from a retailer.



 



   (c)   All the provisions of the Revenue and Taxation Code hereby
adopted providing for the performance of official action on the part of the
State Board of Equalization shall be performed by the Director of Finance of
the City of Los Angeles.



 



   (d)   The City of Los Angeles shall be deemed substituted for the
State of California wherever the State is referred to in said provisions.



 



   (e)   The term “Sales Tax,” as used in said provisions, shall
refer to the tax imposed by Section 21.199 of this Code.



 



   (f)   The Mayor of the City of Los Angeles shall be deemed
substituted for the Governor whenever the Governor is referred to in said
provisions.



 



   (g)   All taxes hereby levied shall be payable to the Director of
Finance of the City of Los Angeles and any civil suit for the collection
thereof may be filed in any court of competent jurisdiction in the State of
California and the City Attorney of said City shall prosecute the action.



 



 



SEC. 21.5.06.  PRIOR PURCHASE EXEMPTION.



 



   Except as otherwise specifically exempted, the tax hereby imposed
applies to all tangible personal property purchased from a retailer and
located in this City, provided, however, that if the purchaser proves to the
satisfaction of the Director of Finance that the property was purchased prior
to the effective date of this article, as revised in 1968, or was not
purchased for use or consumption in this City and has not been nor will be so
used or consumed, he shall be relieved of liability to pay the tax. (Amended
by Ord. No. 136,867, Operative 9/1/68 by Ord. No. 137,011.)



 



 



SEC. 21.5.07.  AUTHORIZATION OF COLLECTIONS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 137,733, Eff. 12/30/68.)



 



   Every retailer maintaining a place of business in the City of Los
Angeles shall apply to the Director of Finance for authorization to collect
the tax hereby imposed from any person purchasing property from such
retailer, the use or consumption of which is taxable hereunder. Upon receipt
of any application in such form as required by him, the Director of Finance
may authorize the applicant to make such collections and to forward the same
to the Director of Finance. Nothing in this article, however, shall require a
retailer maintaining places of business both within and outside the City to
collect the tax imposed under this article from persons who purchase property
from a place of business maintained by such retailer outside the City.



 



 



SEC. 21.5.08.  PERSONAL PROPERTY – TAX LIABILITY.



 



   Every person using or otherwise consuming in this City tangible
personal property purchased from a retailer is liable for the tax; provided,
however, no tax shall be due hereunder if the tax imposed by Section 21.199
of this Code has been paid on the sale of such property. His liability is not
extinguished until the tax has been paid to this City, except that a receipt
from a retailer, authorized pursuant to Section 21.5.07 given to the
purchaser pursuant to Section 21.5.09 hereof, is sufficient to relieve the
purchaser from further liability for the tax to which the receipt refers.



 



 



SEC. 21.5.09.  COLLECTION BY RETAILER.



 



   Every retailer maintaining a place of business in this City who is
authorized by the Director of Finance to collect the tax imposed by this
article and who makes sales of tangible personal property for use or other
consumption in this City not exempted under the provisions of this article,
shall collect the tax from the purchaser at the time of making the sale, or,
if the use or other consumption of the tangible personal property is not then
taxable hereunder, at the time the use or other consumption becomes taxable.
Upon collecting the tax the retailer, on demand, shall give to the purchaser
a receipt therefor in the manner and form prescribed by the Director of
Finance. In all cases in which the tax is not collected by the retailer as
aforesaid, the person upon whom such tax is imposed shall pay the same when
due to the Director of Finance or his authorized agent. The tax so collected
by the retailer constitutes a debt owed by the retailer to the City and it
shall be unlawful for such retailer to fail to pay the same to the City in
the manner and at the times elsewhere provided in this article.



 



 



SEC. 21.5.10.  SEPARATE LISTING OF TAX.



 



   The tax so collected by the retailer from the purchaser shall be
displayed separately from the list price, the price advertised in the
premises the marked price or other price on the sales check or other proof of
sale.



 



 



SEC. 21.5.11.  AGENTS – REGISTRATION OF.



 



   Every retailer selling tangible personal property for use or other
consumption in this City and which retailer maintains a place of business in
this City or acts through agents located in this City, and which retailer is
not registered under the provisions of Section 21.199 of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code shall register with the Director of Finance and give the name
and address of such agent or agents and offices or other places of business
in the City.



 



 



SEC. 21.5.12.  EXEMPTED PURCHASES.



 



   In addition to those exemptions contained in Part 1 of Division 2 of
the California Revenue and Taxation Code which are incorporated into this
article by reference, there shall be excluded from the computation of the tax
the sales price of:



 



   (1)   Purchases made by the State of California or by any agency,
department, political subdivision, district or municipal corporation thereof.



 



   (2)   (None)



 



   (3)   (None)



 



   (4)   Purchases of motor vehicle fuel, the distribution of which in
the State of California is subject to the tax imposed by Part 2 of Division 2
of the California Revenue and Taxation Code, except that users of motor
vehicle fuel on which the motor vehicle fuel tax is refunded shall be liable
for the tax impose by this article at the time and in the manner herein
provided.



 



 



SEC. 21.5.13.  RE-SALE CERTIFICATE.



 



   The Director of Finance may at his option accept a State of California
re-sale certificate as evidence that any sale is not a sale for use or
consumption, or he may in his discretion require an affidavit from the buyer
setting forth such information respecting such sale as he deems necessary to
determine the nature of such sale.



 



 



SEC. 21.5.14.  COMMINGLED GOODS.



 



   If the purchaser of fungible goods commingles such goods with other
fungible goods not so purchased but of such similarity that the identity of
the constituent goods in the commingled mass cannot be determined and
thereafter withdraws for use a part of such commingled goods, his withdrawals
shall be deemed to be from the goods not so purchased until a quantity of
commingled goods equal to the quantity of goods not so purchased but so
commingled has been withdrawn.



 



 



SEC. 21.5.15.  RETURNS, CONTENTS OF.



 



   Each return filed by a retailer shall show the total sale price of the
property sold by him during the reporting period in respect of which he
collected the tax hereby imposed. Each return filed by a purchaser shall show
the total sale price of the property purchased by him during the reporting
period in respect of which a tax is due hereunder.



 



   All returns shall show the amount of the taxes for the period covered
by the return and such other information as the Director of Finance deems
necessary for the proper administration of this article.



 



 



SEC. 21.5.16.  DELINQUENCIES AND EXTENSIONS.



 



   (a)   The Director of Finance for good cause may extend for not more
than 45 days the time for making any return or paying any sum required to be
paid hereunder. The extension may be granted at any time provided a written
request therefor is filed with the Director of Finance prior to the
delinquency date. (Amended by Ord. No. 136,867, Operative 9/1/68 by Ord. No.
137,011.)



 



   (b)   All taxes payable hereunder shall be deemed delinquent if not
paid within the time required. Whenever any tax required to be paid by this
section is not paid on or before the date on which it becomes delinquent,
penalties and interest shall accrue and deficiency determinations shall be
made in the manner provided in Section 21.05 and Section 21.15.



 



 



SEC. 21.5.18.  ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.



 



   (a)   The Director of Finance shall administer and enforce the
provisions of this article following procedures prescribed in Sections 21.00
to 21.49, inclusive, of this Code, insofar as they are not inconsistent with
the provisions of this article, and, with the approval of the City Attorney,
shall prescribe, adopt and enforce rules and regulations, for the purpose of
administering and enforcing this article, and prescribing methods for the
collection and payment of the tax. Such schedules shall conform as nearly as
practicable to the sales tax reimbursement schedule provided in Subsection
(b) of Section 21.199. Such schedules may be so determined as to facilitate
collection of this tax at the same time as the retailer collects the tax
imposed under the California Sales and Use Tax Law.



 



   Such rules and regulations may, among other things, require each person
affected by this article to keep such records, receipts, invoices and other
pertinent papers as the Director of Finance may deem necessary for the
purposes of administering and enforcing this article. (Amended by Ord. No.
137,130, Oper. 10/1/68.)



 



   (b)   Inasmuch as this article is patterned after the use tax
provisions of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California, and
the State Board of Equalization has made various rules and regulations
pertaining to the interpretation, administration and enforcement of such
provisions of the Revenue and Taxation Code, it may be reasonably assumed
that the City of Los Angeles will be confronted with many of the problems
dealt with in the state rules and regulations, each such rule and regulation
in so far as applicable, shall apply in the interpretation of this article
until specifically abandoned by rules and regulations adopted by the Director
of Finance pursuant to the authority of this article.



 



 



SEC. 21.5.19.  INCLUSION OF STATE CLAUSES.



 



   The inclusion of any clause, portion or part of the State Sales and Use
Tax Law, Part 1, Division 2, of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of
California verbatim in this section shall not in or of itself be deemed to
exclude any of the remaining provisions of said Sales and Use Tax that are
made a part hereof by reference only.



 



 



SEC. 21.5.20.  FALSE OR FRAUDULENT RETURNS.



 



   Any person required to make, render, sign or verify any report or
return under the provisions of this article who makes any false or fraudulent
return with intent to defeat or evade the determination of an amount due and
required to be paid hereunder, or who fails to make any required return to
the Director of Finance, or who fails to pay any tax imposed by the
provisions of this Article, or who violates any of the other terms of this
article, is guilty of a misdemeanor.



 



 



SEC. 21.5.21.  VALIDITY OF ARTICLE.



 



   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this
article, including but not limited to any exemption is for any reason held to
be invalid or unconstitutional by the decision of any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions of this article. The Council of the City hereby declares that it
would have adopted this article and each section, subsection, sentence,
clause, phrase or portion thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or
more sections, subsections, clauses, phrases, or portions be declared invalid
or unconstitutional.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 1.6
UNIFORM SALES AND USE TAX



 




(Added by Ord. No. 107,030, Eff. 4/1/56.)




 



 



Section



21.6.1   Short Title.



21.6.2   Purpose.



21.6.3   Operative Date – Contract with State.



21.6.4   Sales Tax.



21.6.5   Use Tax.



21.6.6   Amendments.



21.6.6.1   Application of Provisions Relating to Exclusions and Exemptions.



21.6.7   Enjoining Collection Forbidden.



21.6.8   Existing Sales and Use Tax Ordinances Suspended.



21.6.9   Severability.



21.6.10   Use Tax Incentive Program.



 



 



SEC. 21.6.1.  SHORT TITLE.



 



   This article shall be known as the Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax
Ordinance of the City of Los Angeles.



 



 



SEC. 21.6.2.  PURPOSE.



 



   The City Council of the City of Los Angeles hereby declares that this
ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other, purposes, and
directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish
those purposes:



 



   (a)   To adopt a sales and use tax ordinance which complies with the
requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.5 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California;



 



   (b)   To adopt a sales and use tax ordinance which incorporates
provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of
California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the
requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.5 of Division 2 of the said
Revenue and Taxation Code;



 



   (c)   To adopt a sales and use tax ordinance which imposes a one per
cent (1%) tax and provides a measure therefor that can be administered and
collected by the State Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself
as fully as practical to, and requires the least possible deviation from, the
existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board
of Equalization in administering and collecting the California State Sales
and Use Taxes;



 



   (d)   To adopt a sales and use tax ordinance which can be
administered in a manner that will, to the degree possible consistent with
the provisions of Part 1.5 of Division 2 of the said Revenue and Taxation
Code, minimize the cost of collecting city sales and use taxes and at the
same time minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to
taxation under the provisions of this ordinance;



 



   (e)   (None)



 



 



SEC. 21.6.3.  OPERATIVE DATE – CONTRACT WITH STATE.



 



   This ordinance shall become operative on April 1, 1956, and prior
thereto this City shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to
perform all functions incident to the administration and operation of this
sales and use tax ordinance, provided, that if this City shall not have
contracted with the said State Board of Equalization, as above set forth,
prior to April 1, 1956, this ordinance shall not be operative until the first
day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract
by the City and by the State Board of Equalization; provided, further, that
this ordinance shall not become operative prior to the operative date of the
Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Ordinance of the County of Los Angeles.



 



 



SEC. 21.6.4.  SALES TAX.



 




   (a)   (1)   For the privilege of selling tangible personal
property at retail a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the City at
the rate of one per cent (1%) of the gross receipts of the retailer from the
sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in the City of Los
Angeles on and after the operative date of this ordinance.




 



   (2)   (Amended by Ord. No. 120,455, Eff. 12/22/61, Operative
1/1/62.) For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are consummated
at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal
property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state
destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state
destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery
charges, when such charges are subject to the State sales and use tax,
regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer
has no permanent place of business in the State or has more than one place of
business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall
be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed by the Board of
Equalization.



 




   (b)   (1)   Except as hereinafter provided, and except insofar as
they are inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.5 of Division 2 of the
said Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2
of said Code, as amended and in force and effect on April 1, 1956, applicable
to sales taxes are hereby adopted and made a part of this section as though
fully set forth herein.




 



   (2)   Wherever, and to the extent that, in Part 1 of Division 2 of
the said Revenue and Taxation Code the State of California is named or
referred to as the taxing agency, the City of Los Angeles shall be
substituted therefor. Nothing in this subdivision shall be deemed to require
the substitution of the name of the City of Los Angeles for the word
“State” when that word is used as part of the title of the State
Controller, the State Treasurer, the State Board of Control, the State Board
of Equalization, or the name of the State Treasury, or of the Constitution of
the State of California; nor shall the name of the City be substituted for
that of the State in any section when the result of that substitution would
require action to be taken by or against the City or any agency thereof,
rather than by or against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the
functions incident to the administration or operation of this ordinance; and
neither shall the substitution be deemed to have been made in those sections,
including, but not necessarily limited to, sections referring to the exterior
boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the substitution
would be to provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain gross
receipts which would not otherwise be exempt from this tax while those gross
receipts remain subject to tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of
Division 2 of the said Revenue and Taxation Code; nor to impose this tax with
respect to certain gross receipts which would not be subject to tax by the
State under the said provisions of that Code; and, in addition, the name of
the City shall not be substituted for that of the State in Sections 6701,
6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 and 6828
of the said Revenue and Taxation Code as adopted.



 



   (3)   If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer under
Section 6067 of the said Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional seller’s
permit shall not be required by reason of this section. (Amended by Ord. No.
145,139, Eff. 11/4/73, Operative 1/1/74.)



 



   (4)   There shall be excluded from the gross receipts by which the
tax is measured:



 



   (i)   The amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the State of
California upon a retailer or consumer.



 



   (ii)   Receipts from sales to operators of common carrier and
waterborne vessels of property to be used or consumed in the operation of
such common carriers or waterborne vessels principally outside the City.
(Former (ii) Repealed and Replaced by Former (iii), Ord. No. 120,455, Eff.
12/22/61. Operative 1/1/62.)



 



   (4.5)   (Amended by Ord. No. 158,588, Eff. 12/29/83, Oper. 1/1/84.)
There shall be excluded from the gross receipts by which the tax is measured:



 



   (i)   The amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the State of
California upon a retailer or consumer.



 



   (ii)   The gross receipts from the sale of tangible personal
property to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside
the city in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of
such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property under the authority
of the laws of this state, the United States, or any foreign government.



 



   *(4.5)   There shall be excluded from the gross receipts by which
the tax is measured:



 



   (i)   The amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the State of
California upon a retailer or consumer.



 



   (ii)   The gross receipts from the sale of tangible personal
property to operators of waterborne vessels to be used or consumed
principally outside the city in which the sale is made and directly and
exclusively in the carriage of persons or property in such vessels for
commercial purposes.



 



   (iii)   The gross receipts from the sale of tangible personal
property to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside
the city in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of
such aircraft as common carriers or persons or property under the authority
of the laws of the state, the United States, or any foreign government.



 



   *  The provisions of this Subparagraph (4.5) shall become operative on
the operative date of any act of the Legislature of the State of California
which amends or repeals and re-enacts Section 7202 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code to provide an exemption from city sales and use taxes for
operators of waterborne vessels in the same or substantially the same
language as that existing in subdivisions (i)(7) and (i)(8) of Section 7202
of the Revenue and Taxation Code as those subdivisions read on October 1,
1983.



 



 



SEC. 21.6.5.  USE TAX.



 



   (a)   An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other
consumption in the City of Los Angeles of tangible personal property
purchased from any retailer on or after the operative date of this ordinance,
for storage, use or other consumption in the City at the rate of one per cent
(1%) of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall include
delivery charges when such charges are subject to State sales or use tax
regardless of the place to which delivery is made.



 




   (b)   (1)   Except as hereinafter provided, and except insofar as
they are inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.5 of Division 2 of the
said Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1, Division 2
of said Code, as amended and in force and effect on April 1, 1956, applicable
to use taxes are hereby adopted and made a part of this section as though
fully set forth herein.




 



   (2)   Wherever, and to the extent that, in Part 1 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code the State of California is named or referred to
as the taxing agency, the name of the City shall be substituted therefor.
Nothing in this subdivision shall be deemed to require the substitution of
the name of the City for the word “State” where the word is used as part
of the title of the State Controller, the State Treasurer, the State Board of
Control, the State Board of Equalization, or the name of the State Treasury,
or of the Constitution of the State of California, nor shall the name of the
City be substituted for that of the State in any section where the result of
that substitution would require action to be taken by or against the City or
any agency thereof rather than by or against the State Board of Equalization,
in performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of
this ordinance, and neither shall the substitution be deemed to have been
made in those sections, including but not necessarily limited to sections
referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the
result of the substitution would be to provide an exemption from the tax with
respect to certain storage, use or other consumption or tangible personal
property which would not otherwise be exempt from this tax while such
storage, use or other consumption remains subject to tax by the State under
the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the said Revenue and Taxation Code,
or to impose this tax with respect to certain storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax
by the State under the provisions of that Code, and in addition, the name of
the City shall not be substituted for that of the State in Sections 6701,
6702 (except in the last sentence thereof). 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 and 6828
of the said Revenue and Taxation Code as adopted and the name of the City
shall not be substituted for the word “State” in the phrase “retailer
engaged in business in this State” in Section 6203 nor in the definition of
that phrase in Section 6203. (Amended by Ord. No. 120,455, Eff. 12/22/61.)



 



   (3)   There shall be exempt from the tax due under this section:



 



   (i)   The amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the State of
California upon a retailer or consumer.



 



   (ii)   The storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal
property, the gross from the sales of which has been subject to sales tax
under a sales and use tax ordinance enacted in accordance with Part 1.5 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code by any city and county, county,
or city in this State. (Amended by Ord. No. 120,455, Eff. 12/22/61, Operative
1/1/62.)



 



   (iii)   The storage or use of tangible personal property in the
transportation or transmission of persons, property or communications, or in
the generation, transportation or distribution of electricity, or in the
manufacture, transportation or distribution of gas in intrastate, interstate
or foreign commerce by public utilities which are regulated by the Public
Utilities Commission of the State of California.



 



   (iv)   The use or consumption of property purchased by operators of
common carrier or waterborne vessels to be used or consumed in the operation
of such common carriers or waterborne vessels principally outside the City.



 



   (3.5)   (Amended by Ord. No. 158,588, Eff. 12/29/83, Oper. 1/1/84.)
There shall be exempt from the tax due under this section:



 



   (i)   The amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the State of
California upon a retailer or consumer.



 



   (ii)   The storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal
property, the gross receipts from the sale of which has been subject to sales
tax under a sales and use tax ordinance enacted in accordance with Part 1.5
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code by any city and county,
county, or city in this state.



 



   (iii)   In addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and
6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, the storage, use, or other
consumption of tangible personal property purchased by operators of aircraft
and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of
such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or
compensation under a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued
pursuant to the laws of this state, the United States, or any foreign
government.



 



   *(3.5)   There shall be exempt from the tax due under this section:



 



   (i)   The amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the State of
California upon a retailer or consumer.



 



   (ii)   The storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal
property, the gross receipts from the sale of which has been subject to sales
tax under a sales and use tax ordinance enacted in accordance with Part 1.5
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code by any city and county,
county, or city in this state.



 



   (iii)   The storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal
property purchased by operators of waterborne vessels and used or consumed by
such operators directly and exclusively in the carriage of persons or
property in such vessels for commercial purposes.



 



   (iv)   In addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and
6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, the storage, use, or other
consumption of tangible personal property purchased by operators of aircraft
and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of
such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or
compensation under a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued
pursuant to the laws of this state, the United States, or any foreign
government.



 



   *  The provisions of this Subparagraph (3.5) shall become operative on
the operative date of any act of the Legislature of the State of California
which amends or repeals and re-enacts Section 7202 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code to provide an exemption from city sales and use taxes for
operators of waterborne vessels in the same, or substantially the same,
language as that existing in subdivisions (i)(7) and (i)(8) of Section 7202
of the Revenue and Taxation Code as those subdivisions read on October 1,
1983.



 



 



SEC. 21.6.6.  AMENDMENTS.



 



   All amendments of said Revenue and Taxation Code enacted subsequent to
the effective date of this ordinance, including amendments adopted and
effective to and including September 18, 1959, which relate to the sales and
use tax and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.5 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this
ordinance. (Amended by Ord. No. 115,042, Eff. 1/1/60.)



 



 



SEC. 21.6.6.1.  APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS RELATING TO EXCLUSIONS AND
EXEMPTIONS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 145,139, Eff. 11/4/73, Operative 1/1/74.)



 



   (a)   Sections 21.6.4(b)(4.5), and 21.6.5(b)(3.5) of this article
shall become operative on January 1st of the year following the year in which
the State Board of Equalization adopts an assessment ratio for state assessed
property which is identical to the ratio which is required for local
assessments by Section 401 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, at which time
Sections 21.6.4(b)(4) and 21.6.5(b)(3) of this article shall become
inoperative.



 



   (b)   In the event that Sections 21.6.4(b)(4.5) and 21.6.5(b)(3.5)
of this article become operative and the State Board of Equalization
subsequently adopts an assessment ratio for state assessed property which is
higher than the ratio which is required for local assessments by Section 401
of the Revenue and Taxation Code, Sections 21.6.4(b)(4) and 21.6.5(b)(3) of
this article shall become operative on the first day of the month following
the month in which such higher ratio is adopted, at which time Sections
21.6.4(b)(4.5) and 21.6.5(b)(3.5) of this article shall become inoperative
until the first day of the month following the month in which the Board again
adopts an assessment ratio for state assessed property which is identical to
the ratio required for local assessments by Section 401 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, at which time Sections 21.6.4(b)(4.5) and 21.6.5(b)(3.5) shall
again become operative and Sections 21.6.4(b)(4) and 21.6.5(b)(3) shall
become inoperative.



 



 



SEC. 21.6.7.  ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN.



 



   No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process
shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the State
or this City, or against any officer of the State or this City, to prevent or
enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.5 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be
collected.



 



 



SEC. 21.6.8.  EXISTING SALES AND USE TAX ORDINANCES SUSPENDED.



 



   At the time this ordinance goes into operation, the provisions of
Section 21.199 and Article 1.5 of Chapter 2, Los Angeles Municipal Code,
shall be suspended and shall not again be of any force or effect until and
unless for any reason the State Board of Equalization ceases to perform the
functions incident to the administration and operation of the sales and use
tax hereby imposed; provided, however, that if for any reason it is
determined that the City of Los Angeles is without power to adopt this
ordinance, or that the State Board of Equalization is without power to
perform the functions incident to the administration and operation of the
taxes imposed by this ordinance, the provisions of Section 21.199 and Article
1.5 of Chapter 2, Los Angeles Municipal Code, shall not be deemed to have
been suspended, but shall be deemed to have been in full force and effect at
the rate of one percent (1%) continuously from and after April 1, 1956. Upon
the ceasing of the State Board of Equalization to perform the functions
incident to the administration and operation of the taxes imposed by this
ordinance, the provisions of Section 21.199 and Article 1.5 of Chapter 2, Los
Angeles Municipal Code, shall again be in full force and effect at the rate
of one percent (1%). Nothing in this ordinance shall be construed as
relieving any person of the obligation to pay the City of Los Angeles any
sales or use tax accrued and owing by reason of the provisions of Section
21.199 and Article 1.5 of Chapter 2. Los Angeles Municipal Code, in force and
effect prior to and including March 31, 1956.



 



 



SEC. 21.6.9.  SEVERABILITY.



 



   If any section, subsection, sentence clause, phrase or portion of this
ordinance, including but not limited to any exemption, is for any reason held
to be invalid or unconstitutional by the decision of any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions of this ordinance. The Council of the City of Los Angeles hereby
declares that it would have adopted this ordinance and each section,
subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion thereof, irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses, phrases
or portions be declared invalid or unconstitutional.



 



 



SEC. 21.6.10.  USE TAX INCENTIVE PROGRAM.



   (Title and Section amended by Ord. No. 177,216, Eff. 2/8/06.)



 



   Any person or entity that has a State of California (State) Sales and
Use Tax  Permit (Permit) shall be eligible to receive a rebate of 20% of the
net use tax gain, as described below, received by the City from a purchase,
lease, or any other transaction that is subject to use tax and in which the
City of Los Angeles (City) is properly identified as the jurisdiction in
which the property acquired under the permit is first functionally used,
stored or consumed.  A person or entity must file a claim for a use tax
rebate with the Director of Finance (Director) within one year from the
payment of the use tax to the State.  The claim must contain documentation
to substantiate the rebate.  The Director may request from the claimant any
other information necessary to substantiate the rebate claim.



 



   The Director shall issue the rebate after verification that the City
received the correct amount of funds from the State.  The use tax rebate
shall be 20% of the difference between the amount of use tax actually
received by the City because the Permit was used and the amount of use tax
the City would have received if the tax had been allocated to the Los Angles
Countywide pool.  The rebate shall be paid directly to the claimant but
shall be increased or decreased in accordance with any adjustment made by the
State to a prior use tax payment by the claimant.



 



   The City reserves the right to amend or discontinue any provision of
this program without voter approval.  Any amendment shall be made by
ordinance and shall be applicable to any transaction made subsequent to the
effective date of any ordinance.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 1.7
TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX



 




(Added by Ord. No. 127,757, Eff. 7/31/64, Operative 8/1/64.)




 



 



Section



21.7.1   Title.



21.7.2   Definitions.



21.7.3   Tax Imposed.



21.7.4   Exemptions.



21.7.5   Operator’s Duties.



21.7.6   Registration.



21.7.7   Reporting and Remitting.



21.7.8   Penalties and Interest.



21.7.9   Additional Powers and Duties of Director of Finance, Etc.



21.7.10   Assessment – Administrative Remedy.



21.7.11   Records.



21.7.12   Refunds.



21.7.13   Actions to Collect.



 



 



SEC. 21.7.1.  TITLE.



 



   This article shall be known as the Uniform Transient Occupancy Tax
Ordinance of The City of Los Angeles.



 



 



SEC. 21.7.2.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   Except where the context otherwise requires, the definitions given in
this section govern the construction of this article.



 



   (a)   Person.  “Person” means any individual, firm,
partnership, joint venture, association, social club, fraternal organization,
joint stock company, corporation, estate, trust, business trust, receiver,
trustee, syndicate or any other group or combination acting as a unit.



 



   (b)   Hotel. “Hotel” means any structure, or any portion of any
structure, which is occupied or intended or designed for occupancy by
transients for dwelling, lodging or sleeping purposes, and includes any
hotel, inn, tourist home or house, Short-Term Rental as defined in Section
12.22 A.31. of this Code, Home-Sharing as defined in Section 12.03 of this
Code, motel, studio, hotel, bachelor hotel, lodging house, rooming house,
apartment house, dormitory, public or private club, or other similar
structure or portion thereof, and shall further include any trailer court,
camp, park or lot where trailer spaces, or combinations of such spaces and
trailers, including mobile homes, are occupied or intended or designed for
occupancy by transients for dwelling, lodging or sleeping purposes. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 185,931, Eff. 7/1/19.)



 



   (c)   Occupancy. “Occupancy” means the use or possession, or the
right to the use or possession of any room or rooms or space or portion
thereof, in any hotel for dwelling, lodging or sleeping purposes. The use or
possession or right to use or possess any room or any suite of connecting
rooms as office space, banquet or private dining rooms, or exhibit, sample or
display space shall not be considered “occupancy” within the meaning of
this definition unless the person exercising occupancy uses or possesses, or
has the right to use or possess all or any portion of such room or suite of
rooms for dwelling, lodging or sleeping purposes.



 



   (d)   Transient.  (Amended by Ord. No. 164,961, Eff. 7/24/89, Oper.
8/1/89.)  “Transient” means:



 



   1.   Any person, other than an individual, who exercises occupancy
or is entitled to occupancy by reason of concession, permit, right of access,
license or other agreement, for any period of time, or



 



   2.   Any individual who personally exercises occupancy or is
entitled to occupancy by reason of concession, permit, right of access,
license or other agreement, for a period of 30 consecutive calendar days or
less, counting portions of calendar days as full days.  Any such individual
so occupying space in a hotel shall be deemed to be a transient until the
period of 30 days has expired unless there is an agreement in writing between
the operator and the occupant providing for a longer period of occupancy.



 



   Nothing in this definition or in this article shall be construed as
prohibiting the operator of a hotel from refunding or making an allowance of
credit to a person who has paid tax as required by this article where it is
established that the person was not a “transient” as defined in this
section or was exempt from the tax for any other reason, or had for any
reason overpaid the tax.



 



   (e)   Rent. “Rent” means the consideration charged, whether or
not received, for the occupancy of space in a hotel valued in money, whether
to be received in money, goods, labor or otherwise, including all receipts,
cash, credits and property and services of any kind or nature, without any
deduction therefrom whatsoever. Nothing in this definition shall be construed
to mean that rent is charged directly or indirectly for the occupancy of
space in a hotel when that space is provided to the occupant as a compliment
from the operator and where no consideration is charged to or received from
any other person.



 



   (f)   Operator.  "Operator" means the person who is either the
proprietor of the hotel or any other person who has the right to rent rooms
within the hotel, whether in the capacity of owner, lessee, mortgagee in
possession, licensee or any other capacity.  The owner or proprietor who is
primarily responsible for operation of the hotel shall be deemed to be the
principal operator.  If the principal operator performs or assigns its
functions, in whole or in part, through a managing agent, a booking agent, a
room seller or room reseller, or any other agent or contractee, including but
not limited to Hosting Platforms as defined in 12.03 of this Code, on-line
room sellers, on-line room resellers, and on-line travel agents, of any type
or character other than an employee, those persons shall be deemed to be
secondary operators.  (Amended by Ord. No. 185,931, Eff. 7/1/19.)



 



   A secondary operator shall be deemed an operator for purposes of this
article and shall have the same duties and liabilities as the principal
operator, including but not limited to the collection and remittance of the
full amount of the tax owed under the provisions of this article to the
City.  A secondary operator may satisfy its obligations under the provisions
of this article by submitting the full amount of tax due under this article,
with credit for any taxes remitted to any other operator, either directly to
the Director of Finance or through the principal operator.  The principal
operator may satisfy any potential liability it may have for taxes owed by a
secondary operator by entering into a legally binding agreement with that
secondary operator to remit the portion of the tax owed by the secondary
operator directly to the City.  Upon request, the principal operator shall
provide the Director of Finance with copies of any such agreements.



 



   Compliance with the provisions of this article by either the principal
operator or the secondary operator shall be deemed compliance by both and no
provision of this article shall be deemed to require the payment and/or
remittance of any amount other than the full amount of the tax owed by the
transient.



 



 



SEC. 21.7.3.  TAX IMPOSED.



 



   For the privilege of occupancy in any hotel, each transient is subject
to and shall pay a tax in the amount of four percent (4%) of the rent charged
by the operator on or after August 1, 1964, to and including October 31,
1967; and at the rate of five percent (5%) from that date to and including
February 28, 1971; and at the rate of six percent (6%) from that date to and
including June 30, 1978; and at the rate of seven and one-half percent (7.5%)
from that date to and including June 30, 1983; and at the rate of ten percent
(10%) from that date to and including December 31, 1985; and at the rate of
eleven percent (11%) from that date to and including December 31, 1987; and
at the rate of twelve percent (12%) from that date to and including August
31, 1990; and at the rate of twelve and one-half percent (12.5%) from that
date to and including July 31, 1993; and at the rate of fourteen percent
(14%) thereafter.(Amended by Ord. No. 168,850, Eff. 8/1/93.)  Said tax
constitutes a debt owed by the transient to the City which is extinguished by
the payment to the operator or to the City. The transient shall pay the tax
to the operator of the hotel at the time the rent is paid. If the rent is
paid in installments, or if an amount paid is less than the full amount of
rent and tax accrued at the time of payment, a proportionate share of the tax
shall be deemed to have been paid with each such payment or installment. The
unpaid tax shall be due upon the transient’s ceasing to occupy space in the
hotel. If for any reason the tax is not paid to the operator of the hotel,
the Director of Finance may require that such tax shall be paid directly to
the City.



 



 



SEC. 21.7.4.  EXEMPTIONS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 159,773, Eff. 5/25/85.)



 



   No tax shall be imposed upon:



 



   (a)   Any person as to whom, or any occupancy as to which, it is
beyond the power of the City to impose the tax herein provided;



 



   (b)   Any Federal or State of California officer or employee,
including employees of federal credit unions, who provides proof that he or
she is on official Federal or State business. (Amended by Ord. No. 172,773,
Eff. 9/25/99.)



 



   (c)   Any officer or employee of a foreign government who is exempt
by express provision of federal law or international treaty;



 



   (d)   Any person to whom rent is charged at the rate of $2.00 per
day or less;



 



   (e)   Any person as to whom, or any occupancy as to which, rent is
paid from funds administered by the Emergency Food and Shelter National Board
Program.



 



   No exemption shall be granted under Subsections (a), (b) or (c) except
upon a claim therefor made at the time rent is collected and under penalty of
perjury upon a form prescribed by the Director of Finance.



 



   It shall be the duty of an operator to keep and maintain for a period
of four (4) years written documentation in support of each exemption granted
under Subsection (e).



 



 



SEC. 21.7.5.  OPERATOR’S DUTIES.



 



   Each operator shall collect the tax imposed by this article to the same
extent and at the same time as the rent is collected from every transient.
The amount of tax shall be separately stated from the amount of the rent
charged and each transient shall receive a receipt for payment from the
operator. No operator of a hotel shall advertise or state in any manner,
whether directly or indirectly, that the tax or any part thereof will be
assumed or absorbed by the operator, or that it will not be added to the
rent, or that, if added, any part will be refunded except in the manner
herein provided.



 



 



SEC. 21.7.6.  REGISTRATION.



 



   (a)   Within 30 days after the operative date of this article, or
within 30 days after commencing business, whichever is later, each operator
of any hotel renting occupancy to transients shall register said hotel with
the Director of Finance and obtain from him a “Transient Occupancy
Registration Certificate” to be at all times posted in a conspicuous place
on the premises. Said certificate shall, among other things, state the
following:



 



   1.   The name of the operator;



 



   2.   The address of the hotel;



 



   3.   The date upon which the certificate was issued;



 



   4.   “This Transient Occupancy Registration Certificate signifies
that the person named on the face hereof has fulfilled the requirements of
the Uniform Transient Occupancy Tax Ordinance by registering with the
Director of Finance for the purpose of collecting from transients the
Transient Occupancy Tax and remitting said tax to the Director of Finance.
This certificate does not authorize any person to conduct any unlawful
business or to conduct any lawful business in an unlawful manner, nor to
operate a hotel without strictly complying with all local applicable laws,
including but not limited to those requiring a permit from any board,
commission, department or office of this City. This certificate does not
constitute a permit.”



 



 



SEC. 21.7.7.  REPORTING AND REMITTING.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 176,003, Eff. 7/7/04, Oper. 1/1/05.)



 



   Each operator shall, on or before the 25th day of each calendar month,
make a statement to the Director of Finance of the total rents charged and
received, and the amount of tax collected for transient occupancies during
the preceding calendar month.  At the time the statement is filed, the full
amount of the tax collected and tax not collected but required to be
collected, shall be remitted to the Director of Finance.  Except as provided
in Sec. 21.7.8, an operator shall not be required to remit to the Director of
Finance any amount of tax not collected and not required to be collected from
a transient.  All taxes collected and required to be collected by operators
pursuant to this article shall be held in trust for the account of the City
until payment thereof is made to the City.  The full amount of tax due,
whether collected or owed but not collected, under this Article shall be
deemed a debt owed to the City by the operator and shall be discharged only
upon payment to the City.



 



   Statements and payments are due immediately upon cessation of business
for any reason, at which time the operator shall furnish the Director of
Finance with the name and address of the successor operator.



 



   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the amount of taxes required to be
remitted by an operator to the City pursuant to this Section 21.7.7 shall be
automatically offset by the City in an amount equal to special taxes levied,
collected and satisfied, by a City Community Tax District, formed pursuant to
Division 6, Chapter 10 of the Los Angeles Administrative Code, against the
operator's property during the preceding calendar month.  The sum of the
operator's monthly transient occupancy tax remittance to the City and the
operator's monthly special tax payment shall equal the amount of transient
occupancy tax required to be collected pursuant to this Article.  The City
may request from the applicable operator or the legislative body of the
Community Taxing District documentation or other information necessary to
substantiate the special tax payment.  (Added by Ord. No. 177,052, Eff.
11/20/05.)



 



   The automatic tax offset of the transient occupancy taxes due pursuant
to this Article shall not exceed the rate of transient occupancy tax levied
by the City, and no tax offset shall be provided for the amount of special
taxes paid by an operator in excess of the rate of transient occupancy tax
levied by the City.  (Added by Ord. No. 177,052, Eff. 11/20/05.)



 



 



SEC. 21.7.8.  PENALTIES AND INTEREST.



 



   (a)   Taxes collected by an operator which are not remitted to the
Director of Finance on or before the due dates fixed in Sec. 21.7.7, or fixed
by the Director of Finance as provided therein, are delinquent.



 



   (b)   Interest and penalties for delinquency in remittance of any
tax collected or required to be collected, or any deficiency determination,
shall attach and be paid by the operator at the rates and in the same manner
as is provided in Section 21.05 of this Chapter for delinquency in the
payment of Business Tax, except that a month shall commence on the 26th day
of each calendar month and terminate on the 25th day of the succeeding
calendar month.  (Amended by Ord. No. 176,471, Eff. 3/22/05, Oper. 1/1/05.)



 



   (c)   The Director of Finance shall have power to impose additional
penalties upon an operator for fraud and negligence in reporting and
remitting in the same manner and at the same rates as are provided in Sec.
21.05 of this chapter for such penalties upon persons required to pay
Business Tax.



 



   (d)   For collection purposes only, every penalty imposed and such
interest as accrues under the provisions of this section shall become a part
of the tax herein required to be remitted.  (Amended by Ord. No. 174,085,
Eff. 8/19/01.)



 



 



SEC. 21.7.9.  ADDITIONAL POWERS AND DUTIES OF DIRECTOR OF FINANCE, ETC.



 



   (a)   The Director of Finance shall have the power and duty, and is
hereby directed to enforce each and all of the provisions of this article.



 



   (b)   In administering and enforcing the provisions of this article,
the Director of Finance shall have the same powers and duties with respect to
collecting the tax provided herein as he has under Sec. 21.15 of this chapter
with respect to collecting the Business Tax.



 



   (c)   The provisions of Sections 21.17, 21.20 and 21.21 of this
chapter shall apply to the administration and collection of the tax imposed
under the provisions of this article in the same manner as they apply to the
administration and collection of the Business Tax.



 



 



SEC. 21.7.10.  ASSESSMENT – ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDY.



 



   The Director of Finance may make an assessment for taxes not remitted
by an operator for any reason specified in Sec. 21.16 of this chapter for
making an assessment for unpaid Business Tax. The manner of making and
providing notice of such assessment; the right to a hearing and the conduct
of such hearing; the preparation and service of findings; filing exceptions;
and passing upon exceptions shall be the same as provided in Sec. 21.16 of
this chapter.



 



 



SEC. 21.7.11.  RECORDS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 173, 587, Eff. 12/7/00.)



 



   It shall he the duty of every operator liable for the collection and
payment to the City of any tax imposed by this article to keep and preserve,
for a period of three years, all records as may be necessary to determine the
amount of such tax as he may have been liable for the collection of and
payment to the City, which records the Office of Finance shall have the right
to inspect at all reasonable times.



 



 



SEC. 21.7.12.  REFUNDS.



 



   (a)   Whenever the amount of any tax has been overpaid or paid more
than once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the
City under this article it may be refunded as provided in this section.
Except as otherwise provided in this section, refunds of overpaid taxes shall
be made in the same manner as is provided in Sec. 21.07 of this chapter for
refunds of overpayments in Business Taxes.



 



   (b)   An operator may claim a refund or take as credit against taxes
collected and remitted the amount overpaid, paid more than once or
erroneously or illegally collected or received when it is established in a
manner prescribed by the Director of Finance that the person from whom the
tax has been collected was not a transient; provided, however, that neither a
refund nor a credit shall be allowed unless the amount of the tax so
collected has either been refunded to the transient or credited to rent
subsequently payable by the transient to the operator.



 



   (c)   A transient may obtain a refund of taxes overpaid or paid more
than once or erroneously or illegally collected or received by the City by
filing a claim in the manner provided in Sec. 21.07 of this chapter, but only
when the tax was paid by the transient directly to the Director of Finance,
or when the transient having paid the tax to the operator, establishes to the
satisfaction of the Director of Finance that the transient has been unable to
obtain a refund from the operator who collected the tax.



 



   (d)   No refund shall be paid under the provisions of this section
unless the claimant establishes his right thereto by written records showing
entitlement thereto.



 



 



SEC. 21.7.13.  ACTIONS TO COLLECT.



 



   Any tax required to be paid by any transient under the provisions of
this article shall be deemed a debt owed by the transient to the City. Any
such tax collected by an operator which has not been paid to the City shall
be deemed a debt owed by the operator to the City. Any person owing money to
the City under the provisions of this article shall be liable to an action
brought in the name of the City for the recovery of such amount. Any operator
who undertakes legal action to recover unpaid rent due from a transient may
include the amount of tax due from the transient in the amount sought to be
recovered.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 1.8
CIGARETTE TAX ORDINANCE



 




(Added by Ord. No. 127,689, Eff. 7/20/64, Operative 8/1/64.)




 



 



Section



21.8.1   Definitions.



21.8.2   Tax Imposed.



21.8.3   Tax Paid to the Retailer.



21.8.4   Retailer Remits Quarterly.



21.8.5   Registration.



21.8.6   Penalties and Interest.



21.8.7   Additional Powers and Duties of Director of Finance, Etc.



21.8.8   Assessment – Administrative Remedy.



21.8.9   Records.



21.8.10   Refunds.



21.8.11   Actions to Collect.



 



 



SEC. 21.8.1.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   (a)   “Cigarette” means any roll for smoking, made wholly or in
part of tobacco, irrespective of size or shape and irrespective of whether
the tobacco is flavored, adulterated or mixed with any other ingredient where
such roll has a wrapper or cover made of paper or any other material, except
where such wrapper is wholly or in the greater part made of tobacco and such
roll weighs over three pounds per thousand.



 



   (b)   “Use or consumption” includes the exercise of any right or
power over cigarettes incident to the ownership thereof other than the sale
of the cigarettes or the keeping or retention thereof for the purpose of sale.



 



   (c)   “Retailer” shall mean every person as defined in Sec.
21.00 of this chapter who sells cigarettes for any purpose other than resale.
Where cigarettes are offered for sale through the means of a vending machine,
the person holding title to the cigarettes in the machine shall be deemed the
retailer.



 



 



SEC. 21.8.2.  TAX IMPOSED.*



   (Amended by Ord. No. 135,144, Eff. 10/1/67.)



 



   An excise is hereby imposed upon the use or consumption in the City of
Los Angeles of cigarettes purchased from a retailer for use or consumption
within the City of Los Angeles at the rate of one mill ($0.001) per cigarette
on or after August 1,1964, and to and including September 30, 1966; and at
the rate of two mills ($0.002) per cigarette thereafter to and including
September 30, 1967. No excise shall be imposed under this section on or after
the period commencing October 1, 1967.



 



   *  It is the intention of the City Council in adopting this ordinance
to enable the City of Los Angeles to become eligible to participate in the
distribution of funds derived from State-collected cigarette taxes as
provided in Sec. 30462 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, as amended by
Chapter 963, Statutes of 1967.



 



 



SEC. 21.8.3.  TAX PAID TO THE RETAILER.



 



   The tax constitutes a debt owed by the purchaser to the City which is
extinguished only by payment of the tax to the Director of Finance or to the
retailer. When a purchase from a retailer is made within the City the tax
shall be paid to the retailer at the time the purchase price is paid. The tax
collected or required to be collected by the retailer constitutes a debt owed
by the retailer to the City. Should any remittance of tax be made by a
retailer prior to sale of cigarettes to a consumer, such remittance shall be
considered as an advance payment to be reimbursed by adding the amount of the
tax to the price of the cigarettes at the time of sale to the user or
consumer.



 



 



SEC. 21.8.4.  RETAILER REMITS QUARTERLY.



 



   Each retailer selling cigarettes within the City of Los Angeles shall
collect the tax imposed under Sec. 21.8.2 of this article, and on or before
the last day of the month following the close of a calendar quarter remit the
total amount so collected to the Director of Finance, together with a
statement on a form provided by the Director of Finance showing the number of
cigarettes sold to purchasers, the amount of tax collected, and such other
information as the Director of Finance shall require. Where the Director of
Finance determines that efficiency in the administration of the tax would be
promoted, he may establish reporting periods greater than quarterly, but not
to exceed one year. The Director of Finance may establish shorter reporting
periods for any retailer if he deems it necessary in order to insure
collection of the tax. Statements and payments are due immediately upon
cessation of the business of selling cigarettes for any reason. All taxes
collected by retailers pursuant to this article shall be held in trust for
the account of the City until payment thereof is made to the Director of
Finance.



 



 



SEC. 21.8.5.  REGISTRATION.



 



   (a)   Within 30 days after the operative date of this article, or
within 30 days after commencing business, whichever is later, each retailer
shall register with the Director of Finance and obtain from him a
“Cigarette Tax Registration Certificate” to be at all times posted in a
conspicuous place on the premises; provided, however, each retailer who does
not operate from a fixed place of business shall keep the registration
certificate upon his person at all times while engaging in the business of
being a retailer. No person shall engage in the business of being a retailer
without obtaining a registration certificate therefor. Said certificate
shall, among other things, state the following:



 



   1.   The name of the operator;



 



   2.   The address of the retailer’s place of business;



 



   3.   The date upon which the certificate was issued;



 



   4.   “This Cigarette Tax Registration Certificate signifies that
the person named on the face hereof has fulfilled the requirements of the
Cigarette Tax Ordinance by registering with the Director of Finance for the
purpose of collecting the Cigarette Tax from purchasers of cigarettes and
remitting said tax to the Director of Finance. This certificate does not
authorize any person to conduct any lawful business in an unlawful manner,
nor to operate a cigarette retailing business without complying with all
state and local applicable laws, including but not limited to those requiring
a permit from any board commission, department or office of this City. This
certificate does not constitute a permit.”



 



   (b)   All Cigarette Tax Registration Certificates shall be
countersigned by the City Controller.



 



   (c)   A retailer having more than one place of business within the
City at which cigarettes are sold shall be required to obtain a separate
registration for each such place of business.



 



 



SEC. 21.8.6.  PENALTIES AND INTEREST.



 



   (a)   Taxes collected by a retailer which are not remitted to the
Director of Finance on or before the due dates fixed in Sec. 21.8.4, or fixed
by the Director of Finance as provided herein, are delinquent.



 



   (b)   Interest and penalties for delinquency in remittance of any
tax collected, or any deficiency determination shall attach and be paid by
the retailer at the rates and in the same manner as is provided in Sec. 21.05
of this chapter for delinquency in payment of Business Tax.



 



   (c)   The Director of Finance shall have power to impose additional
penalties upon a retailer for fraud and negligence in reporting and remitting
in the same manner and at the same rates as are provided in Sec. 21.05 of
this Chapter for such penalties upon persons required to pay Business Tax.



 



   (d)   Every penalty imposed and such interest as accrues under the
provisions of this section shall become a part of the tax herein required to
be remitted.



 



 



SEC. 21.8.7.  ADDITIONAL POWERS AND DUTIES OF DIRECTOR OF FINANCE, ETC.



 



   (a)   The Director of Finance shall have the power and duty, and is
hereby directed to enforce each and all of the provisions of this article.



 



   (b)   In administering and enforcing the provisions of this article,
the Director of Finance shall have the same powers and duties with respect to
collecting the tax provided herein as he has under Sec. 21.15 of this chapter
with respect to collecting the Business Tax.



 



   (c)   The provisions of Sections 21.12, 21.17, 21.20, and 21.21 of
this chapter shall apply to the administration and collection of the tax
imposed under the provisions of this article in the same manner as they apply
to the administration and collection of the Business Tax.



 



   (d)   The provisions of Subsections (b) and (c) of Sec. 21.18 of
this chapter shall apply to the administration and collection of the tax
imposed under the provisions of this article in the same manner as they apply
to the administration and collection of the Business Tax.



 



 



SEC. 21.8.8.  ASSESSMENT – ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDY.



 



   The Director of Finance may make an assessment for taxes not remitted
by a retailer for any reason specified in Sec. 21.16 of this chapter for
making an assessment for unpaid Business Tax. The manner of making and
providing notice of such assessment; the right to a hearing and the conduct
of such hearing; the preparation and service of findings; filing exceptions;
and passing upon exceptions shall be the same as provided in Sec. 21.16 of
this chapter.



 



 



SEC. 21.8.9.  RECORDS.



 



   It shall be the duty of every retailer liable for the collection and
payment to the City of any tax imposed by this article to keep and preserve,
for a period of four years, all records as may be necessary to determine the
amount of such tax as he may have been liable for the collection of and
payment to the City, which records the Clerk shall have the right to inspect
at all reasonable times.



 



 



SEC. 21.8.10.  REFUNDS.



 



   (a)   Whenever the amount of any tax has been overpaid or paid more
than once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the
City under this article it may be refunded as provided in this section.
Except as otherwise provided in this section, refunds of overpaid taxes shall
be made in the same manner as is provided in Sec. 21.07 of this chapter for
refunds of overpayments in Business Taxes.



 



   (b)   A retailer may claim a refund or take as credit against taxes
collected and remitted the amount overpaid, paid more than once or
erroneously or illegally collected or received when it is established in a
manner prescribed by the Director of Finance that the person from whom the
tax has been collected was not a user or consumer as that term is defined in
Subsection (b) of Sec. 21.8.1; provided, however, that neither a refund nor a
credit shall be allowed unless the amount of the tax so collected has either
been refunded to the purchaser erroneously required to pay the tax or
otherwise credited to him.



 



   (c)   No refund shall be paid under the provisions of this section
unless the claimant establishes his right thereto by written records showing
entitlement thereto.



 



 



SEC. 21.8.11.  ACTIONS TO COLLECT.



 



   Any person using or consuming cigarettes within the City who has not
paid the tax required by the provisions of this article, and any retailer who
has failed to collect or who has collected but not remitted any tax required
to be paid by the provisions of this article, shall be liable to an action
brought in the name of the City for the recovery of such amount.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 1.9
REAL PROPERTY TRANSFER TAX



 




(Added by Ord. No. 132,932, Eff. 9/24/66, Operative 10/1/66;





Amended by Ord. No. 135,540, Eff. 12/16/67, Operative 1/1/68.)




 



 



Section



21.9.1   Title.



21.9.2   Tax Imposed.



21.9.3   Persons Liable.



21.9.4   Exemption – Debt Security.



21.9.5   Exemption – Governmental Agencies.



21.9.6   Exemptions – Bankruptcy, Receivership, Etc.



21.9.7   Exemptions – Orders of S.E.C.



21.9.8   Exemption – Certain Partnership Transfers.



21.9.9   Recorder Administers.



21.9.10   Refunds.



21.9.11   Duties of Clerk.



21.9.12   Exemption-exchanges with the City.



21.9.13   Exemption – Certain Non-profit Corporation Transfers.



 



 



SEC. 21.9.1.  TITLE.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 166,976, Eff. 7/3/91, Oper. 7/1/91.)



 



   This article shall be known as the “Real Property Transfer Tax
Ordinance of the City of Los Angeles.”  It is adopted pursuant to the
authority contained in Part 6.7 (commencing with Section 11901) of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California.  It is also
enacted under the authority of Subdivision (d) of Subsection (11) of Section
2 of the Los Angeles City Charter and other authority held as a Charter City.



 



 



SEC. 21.9.2.  TAX IMPOSED.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 166,976, Eff. 7/3/91, Oper. 7/1/91.)



 



   There is hereby imposed on each deed, instrument or writing by which
any lands, tenements, or other realty sold within the City of Los Angeles
shall be granted, assigned, transferred or otherwise conveyed to, or vested
in, the purchaser or purchasers, or any other person or persons, by his or
their direction, when the consideration or value of the interest or property
conveyed (exclusive of the value of any lien or encumbrance remaining thereon
at the time of sale) exceeds $100.00, a tax at the rate of $2.25 for each
$500.00 or fractional part thereof.



 



 



SEC. 21.9.3.  PERSONS LIABLE.



 



   Any tax imposed pursuant to Sec. 21.9.2 hereof shall be paid by any
person who makes, signs or issues any document or instrument subject to the
tax, or for whose use or benefit the same is made, signed or issued.



 



 



SEC. 21.9.4.  EXEMPTION – DEBT SECURITY.



 



   Any tax imposed pursuant to this article shall not apply to any
instrument in writing given to secure a debt.



 



 



SEC. 21.9.5.  EXEMPTION – GOVERNMENTAL AGENCIES.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 140,085, Eff. 5/11/70.)



 



   Any deed, instrument or writing to which the United States or any
agency or instrumentality thereof, any state or territory, or political
subdivision thereof, is a party shall be exempt from the tax imposed pursuant
to this article when the exempt agency is acquiring title.



 



 



SEC. 21.9.6.  EXEMPTIONS – BANKRUPTCY, RECEIVERSHIP, ETC.



 



   Any tax imposed pursuant to this article shall not apply to the making,
delivering or filing of conveyances to make effective any plan of
reorganization or adjustment:



 



   (a)   Confirmed under the Federal Bankruptcy Act, as amended;



 



   (b)   Approved in an equity receivership proceeding in a court
involving a railroad corporation, as defined in Subdivision (m) of Sec. 205
of Title 11 of the United States Code, as amended;



 



   (c)   Approved in an equity receivership proceeding in a court
involving a corporation, as defined in Subdivision (3) of Sec. 506 of Title
11 of the United States Code, as amended; or



 



   (d)   Whereby a mere change in identity, form or place of
organization is effected.



 



   Subdivisions (a) to (d), inclusive, of this section shall only apply if
the making, delivery or filing of instruments of transfer or conveyances
occurs within five years from the date of such confirmation, approval or
change.



 



 



SEC. 21.9.7.  EXEMPTIONS – ORDERS OF S.E.C.



 



   Any tax imposed pursuant to this article shall not apply to the making
or delivery of conveyances to make effective any order of the Securities and
Exchange Commission, as defined in Subdivision (a) of Sec. 1083 of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1954; but only if:



 



   (a)   The order of the Securities and Exchange Commission in
obedience to which such conveyance is necessary or appropriate to effectuate
the provisions of Sec. 79k of Title 15 of the United States Code, relating to
the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935;



   (b)   Such order specifies the property which is ordered to be
conveyed;



 



   (c)   Such conveyance is made in obedience to such order.



 



 



SEC. 21.9.8.  EXEMPTION – CERTAIN PARTNERSHIP TRANSFERS.



 



   (a)   In the case of any realty held by a partnership, no levy shall
be imposed pursuant to this article by reason of any transfer of an interest
in a partnership or otherwise, if:



 



   (1)   Such partnership (or another partnership) is considered a
continuing partnership within the meaning of Sec. 708 of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1954; and



 



   (2)   Such continuing partnership continues to hold the realty
concerned.



 



   (b)   If there is a termination of any partnership within the
meaning of Sec. 708 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, for purposes of
this article, such partnership shall be treated as having executed an
instrument whereby there was conveyed, for fair market value (exclusive of
the value of any lien or encumbrance remaining thereon), all realty held by
such partnership at the time of such termination.



 



   (c)   Not more than one tax shall be imposed pursuant to this
article by reason of a termination described in Subdivision (b), and any
transfer pursuant thereto, with respect to the realty held by such
partnership at the time of such termination.



 



 



SEC. 21.9.9.  RECORDER ADMINISTERS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 166,976, Eff. 7/3/91, Oper. 7/1/91.)



 



   The County Recorder shall administer this article in conformity with
the provisions of Part 6.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and
the provisions of any County ordinance adopted pursuant thereto.  The
Director of Finance of the City of Los Angeles is authorized to negotiate and
enter into a contract with the County of Los Angeles or one of its officials
for the administration of this article and payment to the County for its
costs of administration.



 



 



SEC. 21.9.10.  REFUNDS.



 



   Claims for refund of taxes imposed pursuant to this article shall be
governed by the provisions of Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 5096) of
Part 9 of Division 1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of
California.



 



 



SEC. 21.9.11.  DUTIES OF CLERK.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 166,976, Eff. 7/3/91, Oper. 7/1/91.)



 



   (a)   The Director of Finance, in his capacity of Tax Collector of
the City of Los Angeles, is hereby designated as the officer of the City
responsible for maintaining relations with the County of Los Angeles for the
purpose of administering the tax imposed under this article and receiving and
accounting for the funds collected thereunder.



 



   (b)   If the County of Los Angeles does not collect the tax due
under this article, then the Director of Finance shall have the power and
duty to enforce all of the provisions of this article.  In such case the
City tax is due prior to recordation with the County of Los Angeles of any
written instrument subject to the tax and the Director of Finance may make an
assessment for taxes not paid in the manner provided in Section 21.16 of this
Code, and make refunds as provided in Section 22.13 of this Code.



 



 



SEC. 21.9.12.  EXEMPTION-EXCHANGES WITH THE CITY.



   (Added by Ord. No. 170,326, Eff. 3/10/95.)



 



   Any deed, instrument or writing by which a person acquires real
property in an exchange with the City shall be exempt from the tax imposed
pursuant to this article where the real property received by the City is of
equal or greater value than the real property received by the other person.



 



 



SEC. 21.9.13.  EXEMPTION – CERTAIN NON-PROFIT CORPORATION TRANSFERS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 171,644, Eff. 8/2/97.)



 



   (a)   In the case of any realty held by a non-profit corporation, no
levy shall be imposed pursuant to this article by reason of any transfer of
the realty, if:



 



   (1)   The realty is transferred to a limited partnership, of which
the non-profit corporation is the general partner; and



 



   (2)   The City required such transfer to be made in order to
facilitate the use of tax credits and federal affordable housing development
assistance.



 



   (b)   Any person exempt from the tax imposed by this article because
of the provisions of Subsection (a) hereof shall pay to the County of Los
Angeles the tax that would be owed if such exemption did not exist, and
thereafter may apply to the Director of Finance for a refund, which refund
shall be made in the same manner as is provided in Section 21.07 of this
chapter for refunds of overpayments of Business Taxes.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 1.10
DWELLING UNIT CONSTRUCTION TAX



 




(Amended by 0rd. No. 145,220, Eff. 12/23/73.)*




 



 




   *  The provisions of this ordinance shall not be applicable to any
subdivision filed for the purpose of converting a presently existing
structure to a condominium, the Tentative Map for which has been filed prior
to the thirty-first day following the effective date hereof.




 



 



Section



21.10.1   Definitions.



21.10.2   Constitutional Exemptions.



21.10.3   Dwelling Unit Construction Tax.



21.10.4   Due Date.



21.10.5   Assessment – Administrative Remedy.



21.10.6   Refunds.



 



 



SEC. 21.10.1.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   The following words and phrases whenever used in this article shall be
construed as defined in this section:



 



   (a)   “Person” shall mean any individual, receiver,
administrator, executor, assignee, trustee in bankruptcy, trust, estate,
firm, partnership, joint venture, club, company, joint stock company,
business trust, domestic or foreign corporation, association, syndicate,
society, or any group of individuals acting as a unit, whether mutual,
cooperative, fraternal, nonprofit or otherwise, and shall include a municipal
corporation.  (Amended by Ord. No. 175,083, Eff. 3/25/03.)



 



   (b)   “Dwelling Unit” shall be defined as it is presently
defined in Section 12.03 of this Code except that it shall also include every
mobile home site.



 



   (c)   “Condominium” shall mean an estate in real property
consisting of an undivided interest in common in a portion of a parcel of
real property together with a separate interest in space in an apartment
building on such real property. A condominium may include in addition a
separate interest in other portions of such real property.



 



   (d)   “Apartment” shall be defined as a residential building
designed or used for five or more dwelling units.



 



 



SEC. 21.10.2.  CONSTITUTIONAL EXEMPTIONS.



 



   Nothing in this article shall be construed as imposing a tax upon any
person when imposition of such tax upon that person would be in violation of
the Constitution of the United States or that of the State of California.



 



 



SEC. 21.10.3.  DWELLING UNIT CONSTRUCTION TAX.



 



   (a)   There is hereby imposed an excise tax upon every person who
constructs or causes to be constructed any new dwelling unit in the City of
Los Angeles in which said person has an equity or title. The tax imposed by
this section shall be at the rate of two hundred dollars ($200.00) per
dwelling unit.



 



   1.   The tax imposed by this section shall be imposed regardless of
whether the new dwelling unit is created by new construction or by
modification of existing structures. The tax imposed shall apply to new
mobile home park sites regardless of whether they are part of a new mobile
home park or an addition to an existing park. The tax imposed shall also
apply to the conversion of an existing apartment building into a condominium
or condominiums if the construction of the apartment building did not subject
any person to the tax imposed by this article.



 



   (b)   Where, as a condition of approval of a subdivision of land or
of the finalization of a zone change to a zone which permits a multiple
residential use, which subdivision or zone change includes the land whereon
the new dwelling unit is to be constructed, a fee has been paid, or
improvements or recreational facilities have been installed, constructed, or
guaranteed to an existing City park or upon land being dedicated as a City
park, or land has been dedicated to the City of Los Angeles, all pursuant to
the provisions of Sections 12.22 or 17.12 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code,
or where a voluntary payment of such a sum, or dedication of such land, or
the installation or construction of such recreational facilities or
improvements has been made, or any combination thereof as would have been
required by Sections 12.33 or 17.12 of such Code, if applicable, has
occurred, a credit shall be allowed against the tax imposed by this article
in the amount of the fee so paid, or the fair market value of the land so
dedicated, or the value of the improvements or recreational facilities
installed, constructed or guaranteed, or a combination of any of the above.
As used herein the term “fair market value” shall mean the valuation of
the particular land by the Board of Recreation and Park Commissioners and
shall be based upon the proportionate portion of the appraised value of all
the land within the subdivision or zone change property which the area
dedicated bears to the area of all the land within the subdivision or zone
change property, which appraisal is prepared by a qualified real estate
appraiser, approved by the Real Estate Division of the Bureau of Engineering
of the City, and employed by the property owner at his own expense, and which
appraisal, after report and recommendation by the Real Estate Division of the
Bureau of Engineering is accepted as reasonable by the Board of Recreation
and Park Commissioners. The value of the improvements or the facilities
referred to in this section shall be established pursuant to Section 17.12F8
of the Los Angeles Municipal Code. A credit shall also be allowed where a
conversion of an existing apartment building into a condominium or
condominiums has resulted in the payment of a fee, the construction,
installation or guarantee of recreational facilities or improvements, or the
dedication of land, or any of the above, to the City of Los Angeles pursuant
to the provisions of Sections 12.33 or 17.12 of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code. A credit shall also be allowed for the amount of tax paid under this
article because of the modification of a structure when the structure is
subsequently converted from an apartment building into a condominium or
condominiums. Provided, however, that in no event shall the amount of credit
exceed the amount of tax; further provided that no credit against the tax
established hereby shall be allowed, and no set-off against said tax shall be
permitted, in those instances where a person received an exemption or credit
under the provisions of Subdivisions 1, 3, 4 or 5 of Subsection F of Section
17.12 or Section 12.33 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 163,797, Eff. 8/8/88.)



 



   (c)   The tax imposed by this article shall be paid to the
Department of Building and Safety. The Director of Finance is directed to
enforce each and all of the provisions of this article and may make such
rules and regulations as are not inconsistent with this article as may be
necessary or desirable to aid in the enforcement of these provisions. The
Director of Finance may demand statements in writing from any person subject
to tax calling for information as he may deem pertinent for the
administration and collection of the tax. It shall be the duty of any such
person receiving such a demand from the Director of Finance to furnish such
information. The Director of Finance may require any statement to be
verified.  (Amended by Ord. No. 175,083, Eff. 3/25/03.)



 



   (d)   The tax collected pursuant to this article shall be placed in
a “Park and Recreational Sites and Facilities Fund,” to be exclusively
for the acquisition and development of park and recreational sites and
facilities. Any refunds required or permitted by law, of taxes collected
under this article shall be made from that Fund.



 



   (e)   The tax imposed by this article shall not apply to
construction which is subsidized, in whole or part, by the federal or state
government, where a majority of the units are built for senior citizens or
disabled persons of low income by non-profit corporations, where the property
is exempt from County property taxes and any income therefrom is exempt from
federal and state income taxes, and the construction and development thereof
complies with the provisions of Section 17.12 of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 168,771, Eff. 7/9/93, Oper. 1/1/89.)



 



   (f)   The tax imposed by this article shall not apply to the
construction of any dwelling unit which qualifies a residential facility as a
“shelter for the homeless,” as that term is defined in Section 12.03 of
this Code.  (Added by Ord. No. 164,785, Eff. 6/5/89.)



 



   (g)   The tax imposed by this article shall not apply to the
reconstruction or replacement of a dwelling unit which was damaged or
destroyed as a result of the earthquake of January 17, 1994 and its
aftershocks, as determined by the Department of Building and Safety.  (Added
by Ord No. 169,952, Eff. 8/26/94.)



 



 



SEC. 21.10.4.  DUE DATE.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 148,246, Eff. 5/24/76.)



 



   The tax imposed by this article is due and payable prior to the
issuance of a building permit by the Department of Building and Safety;
provided, however, that when the tax imposed on the conversion of an existing
apartment building to a condominium or condominiums the tax is due and
payable prior to the approval of the Final Map by the City Engineer. The
Department of Building and Safety shall not issue a building permit until the
tax imposed by this article has been paid. Any person owing money to the City
under the provisions of this article shall be liable in any action brought in
the name of the City for the recovery of such amount.



 



   Any tax paid under the provisions of this article may be refunded if
the application for the building permit is not approved, or if approved, is
not used for construction of dwelling unit, or units, or where the final map
has been approved by the City Engineer for the conversion of an existing
apartment building to a condominium or condominiums and such apartment
building is not converted.



 



 



SEC. 21.10.5.  ASSESSMENT – ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDY.



 



   (a)   The provisions of Sections 21.17, 21.20 and 21.21 of this
chapter shall apply to the administration and collection of the tax imposed
under the provisions of this article in the same manner as they apply to the
administration and collection of the Business Tax.



 



   (b)   The Director of Finance may make an assessment for taxes not
remitted by a person required to remit under this article. The manner of
making and providing notice of such assessment; the right to a hearing and
the conduct of decision; filing exceptions; and passing upon exceptions shall
be the same as provided in Section 21.16 of this chapter.



 



 



SEC. 21.10.6.  REFUNDS.



 



   (a)   Whenever the amount of any tax has been overpaid or paid more
than once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the
City under this article, refund shall be made in the same manner as is
provided in Section 21.07 of this chapter for refunds of overpayments in
Business Taxes.



 



   (b)   No refunds shall be paid under the provisions of this section
unless the claimant establishes his right thereto by written records showing
entitlement thereto.



 



   (c)   The Director of Finance shall have the same power to
compromise claims for Dwelling Unit Construction Tax, and the same power to
accept and record underpayments or overpayments of such tax, as is granted to
him under Subsections (f) and (g) of Section 21.15 with respect to Business
Taxes.



 



   (d)   With respect to any tax paid pursuant to the provisions of
this article for the construction of any dwelling unit which qualifies a
residential facility as a “shelter for the homeless,” as that term is
defined in Section 12.03 of this Code, Subsection (f) of Section 21.10.3 of
this article shall be deemed to have been in effect and operative three years
prior to its actual effective date. (Added by Ord. No. 164,785, Eff. 6/5/89.)



 



   (e)   The City shall refund any tax collected under this article
which was paid after May 23, 1984 and prior to August 8, 1988, provided that
such tax would not have been required had Subsection (b) of Section 21.10.3
of this article, as amended by Ordinance No. 163,797, been in effect at the
time of payment thereof. Claims for such refund shall be made pursuant to
Subsection (a) of this section.  (Added by Ord. No. 166,422, Eff. 12/31/90.)



 



   (f)   The Director of Finance shall enforce the provisions of
Subsection (a) above as if Subsection (g) of Section 21.10.3 of the Los
Angeles Municipal Code was in effect on January 17, 1994.  (Added by Ord No.
169,952, Eff. 8/26/94.)



 



 



 



ARTICLE 1.11
PAYROLL EXPENSE TAX



 




(Repealed by Ord. No. 174,272, Eff. 11/26/01.)




 



 



 



ARTICLE 1.12
TAX PENALTY AMNESTY



 




(Article Amended by Ord. No. 182,637, Eff. 9/1/13.)




 



 



Section



21.12.1   Development and Administration of Program.



21.12.2   Duration and Application of Program.



21.12.3   Elements of Program.



21.12.4   Previous Assessments, Payments, and Litigation.



21.12.5   Requisites for Compliance with Program.



21.12.6   Subsequent Deficiencies.



21.12.7   Implementation of Article.



 



 



SEC. 21.12.1.  DEVELOPMENT AND ADMINISTRATION OF PROGRAM.



 



   The Director of Finance shall develop and administer a tax penalty
amnesty program as authorized and provided in this Article.



 



 



SEC. 21.12.2.  DURATION AND APPLICATION OF PROGRAM.



 



   The tax penalty amnesty program shall be conducted during the period of
September 1, 2013, through December 2, 2013.  The program shall apply to
penalties for delinquent tax liabilities for tax periods ending on or before
December 2, 2013, with respect to Business Taxes (Article 1), Telephone,
Electricity, and Gas Users Taxes (Article 1.1), Commercial Tenant's Occupancy
Taxes (Article 1.3), Transient Occupancy Taxes (Article 1.7) and Parking
Occupancy Taxes (Article 1.15).



 



 



SEC. 21.12.3.  ELEMENTS OF PROGRAM.



 



   For any taxpayer who meets the requirements of Section 21.12.5 of this
Article:



 



   (a)   The tax penalties imposed under Article 1 (Business Taxes),
Article 1.1 (Telephone, Electricity, and Gas Users Taxes), Article 1.3
(Commercial Tenant's Occupancy Tax), Article 1.7 (Transient Occupancy Tax)
and Article 1.15 (Parking Occupancy Tax) of this Chapter shall not apply to
any taxes for the tax periods for which tax penalty amnesty is requested.



 



   (b)   No criminal action based upon the nonreporting or
underreporting of tax liabilities or the nonpayment of any taxes shall be
brought against the taxpayer for any tax period for which the taxpayer has
complied with the provisions of Section 21.12.5 of this Article.



 



 



SEC. 21.12.4.  PREVIOUS ASSESSMENTS, PAYMENTS, AND LITIGATION.



 



   The tax penalty shall apply and no refund or credit shall be granted of
any penalty if, prior to the time the taxpayer makes a request for tax
penalty amnesty pursuant to Section 21.12.5 of this Article, the penalty has
been paid by the taxpayer.



 



 



SEC. 21.12.5.  REQUISITES FOR COMPLIANCE WITH PROGRAM.



 



   (a)   The provisions of this Article shall apply to any taxpayer
who, on or after September 1, 2013, and on or before December 2, 2013, files
an application for tax penalty amnesty and complies with the following
conditions:



 



   1.   Files completed tax statements or returns for all periods and
taxes for which the taxpayer has not previously filed a tax statement or
return, and files completed amended tax statements or returns for all periods
for which the taxpayer underreported the taxes due;



 



   2.   Pays in full all taxes and interest due; and



 



   3.   Pays all costs and fees incurred and due with respect to the
collection of any delinquent taxes.



 



   (b)   For any taxes subject to amnesty under this program, the
Director of Finance may enter into an installment payment agreement, as
provided for in Section 21.18 of Article 1 of this Chapter, in lieu of the
complete payment required under Subdivision 2. of Subsection (a) of this
section.  Failure of the taxpayer to fully comply with the terms of the
installment payment agreement shall render the waiver of any penalty
applicable thereto null and void, unless the Director of Finance determines
that the failure was due to reasonable cause.



 



 



SEC. 21.12.6.  SUBSEQUENT DEFICIENCIES.



 



   If, subsequent to December 2, 2013, the Director of Finance issues a
billing, deficiency determination or assessment based upon a statement or
return filed pursuant to Section 21.12.5 of this Article, penalties shall be
imposed only with respect to the difference between the amount paid and the
correct amount of tax.  This section shall not invalidate any waiver granted
under Section 21.12.3 of this Article.



 



 



SEC. 21.12.7.  IMPLEMENTATION OF ARTICLE.



 



   The Director of Finance shall adequately publicize the tax penalty
amnesty program, issue forms and instructions, and take other actions needed
to implement this Article.  No later than March 31, 2014, the Director of
Finance shall report to Council the number of taxpayers for whom penalties
were waived and the total amount of penalties waived pursuant to this Article.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 1.13
RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT TAX



 




(Art. 1.13, Added by Ord. No. 162,421, Eff. 6/29/87. Oper. 7/1/87.)




 



 



Section



21.13.1   Definitions.



21.13.2   Constitutional Exemptions.



21.13.3   Residential Development Tax.



21.13.4   Due Date.



21.13.5   Assessment – Administrative Remedy.



21.13.6   Refunds.



 



 



SEC. 21.13.1.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   The following words and phrases whenever used in this article shall be
construed as defined in this section.



 



   (a)   “Person” shall mean any individual, receiver,
administrator, executor, assignee, trustee in bankruptcy, trust, estate,
firm, partnership, joint venture, club, company, joint stock company,
business trust, domestic or foreign corporation, association, syndicate,
society, or any group of individuals acting as a unit, whether mutual,
cooperative, fraternal, nonprofit or otherwise, and shall include a municipal
corporation.  (Amended by Ord. No. 175,083, Eff. 3/25/03.)



 



   (b)   “Dwelling Unit” shall be defined as it is presently
defined in Section 12.03 of this Code except that it shall also include every
mobile home site.



 



   (c)   “Condominium” shall mean an estate in real property
consisting of an undivided interest in common in a portion of a parcel of
real property together with a separate interest in space in an apartment
building on such real property. A condominium may include in addition a
separate interest in other portions of such real property.



 



   (d)   “Apartment” shall be defined as a residential building
designed or used for five or more dwelling units.



 



 



SEC. 21.13.2.  CONSTITUTIONAL EXEMPTIONS.



 



   Nothing in this article shall be construed as imposing a tax upon any
person when imposition of such tax upon that person would be in violation of
the Constitution of the United States or that of the State of California.



 



 



SEC. 21.13.3.  RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT TAX.



 



   (a)   There is hereby imposed an excise tax upon every person who
constructs, or causes to be constructed, any new dwelling unit in the City of
Los Angeles in which said person has an equity or title. The tax imposed by
this section shall be at the rate of three hundred dollars ($300.00) per
dwelling unit.



 



   1.   The tax imposed by this section shall be imposed regardless of
whether the new dwelling unit is created by new construction or by
modification of existing structures. The tax imposed shall apply to new
mobile home park sites regardless of whether they are part of a new mobile
home park or an addition to an existing park. The tax imposed shall also
apply to the conversion of an existing apartment building into a condominium
or condominiums if the construction of the apartment building did not subject
any person to the tax imposed by this article.



 



   (b)   A credit against the tax shall be allowed for the amount of
tax paid under this article because of the modification of a structure when
the structure is subsequently converted from an apartment building into a
condominium or condominiums. Provided, however, that in no event shall the
amount of credit exceed the amount of tax.



 



   (c)   The tax imposed by this article shall be paid to the
Department of Building and Safety. The Director of Finance is directed to
enforce each and all of the provisions of this article and may make such
rules and regulations as are not inconsistent with this article as may be
necessary or desirable to aid in the enforcement of these provisions. The
Director of Finance may demand statements in writing from any person subject
to tax calling for information as he may deem pertinent for the
administration and collection of the tax. It shall be the duty of any such
person receiving such a demand from the Director of Finance to furnish such
information. The Director of Finance may require any statement to be
verified.  (Amended by Ord. No. 175,083, Eff. 3/25/03.)



 



   (d)   The tax imposed by this article shall not apply to
construction which is subsidized, in whole or part, by the federal or state
government, where a majority of the units are built for senior citizens or
disabled persons of low income by non-profit corporations, where the property
is exempt from County property taxes and any income therefrom is exempt from
federal and state income taxes, and the construction and development thereof
complies with the provisions of Section 17.12 of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 168,771, Eff. 7/9/93, Oper. 1/1/89.)



 



   (e)   The tax imposed by this article shall not apply to the
construction of any dwelling unit which qualifies a residential facility as a
“shelter for the homeless,” as that term is defined in Section 12.03 of
this Code. (Added by Ord. No. 164,785, Eff. 6/5/89.)



 



   (f)   The tax imposed by this article shall not apply to the
reconstruction or replacement of a dwelling unit which was damaged or
destroyed as a result of the earthquake of January 17, 1994 and its
aftershocks, as determined by the Department of Building and Safety.  (Added
by Ord No. 169,952, Eff. 8/26/94.)



 



 



SEC. 21.13.4.  DUE DATE.



 



   The tax imposed by this article is due and payable prior to the
issuance of a building permit by the Department of Building and Safety;
provided, however, that when the tax imposed on the conversion of an existing
apartment building to a condominium or condominiums the tax is due and
payable prior to the approval of the Final Map by the City Engineer. The
Department of Building Safety shall not issue a building permit until the tax
imposed by this article has been paid. Any person owing money to the City
under the provisions of this article shall be liable in any action brought in
the name of the City for the recovery of such amount.



 



   Any tax paid under the provisions of this article may be refunded if
the application for the building permit is not approved, or, if approved, is
not used for construction of a dwelling unit, or units, or where the final
map has been approved by the City Engineer for the conversion of an existing
apartment building to a condominium or condominiums and such apartment
building is not converted.



 



 



SEC. 21.13.5.  ASSESSMENT – ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDY.



 



   (a)   The provisions of Sections 21.17, 21.20 and 21.21 of this
chapter shall apply to the administrative and collection of the tax imposed
under the provisions of this article in the same manner as they apply to the
administration and collection of the Business Tax.



 



   (b)   The Director of Finance may make an assessment for taxes not
remitted by a person required to remit under this article. The manner of
making and providing notice of such assessment; the right to a hearing and
the conduct of such hearing; the preparation and service of the decision;
filing exceptions; and passing upon exceptions shall be the same as provided
in Section 21.16 of this Chapter.



 



 



SEC. 21.13.6.  REFUNDS.



 



   (a)   Whenever the amount of any tax has been overpaid or paid more
than once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the
City under this article, refund shall be made in the same manner as is
provided in Section 21.07 of this Chapter for refunds of overpayments in
Business Taxes.



 



   (b)   No refund shall be paid under the provisions of this section
unless the claimant establishes his right thereto by written records showing
entitlement thereto.



 



   (c)   The Director of Finance shall have the same power to
compromise claims for Residential Development Tax, and the same power to
accept and record underpayments or overpayments of such tax, as is granted to
him under Subsections (f) and (g) of Section 21.15 with respect to Business
Taxes.



 



   (d)   With respect to any tax paid pursuant to the provisions of
this article for the Construction of any dwelling unit which qualifies a
residential facility as a “shelter for the homeless,” as that term is
defined in Section 12.03 of this Code, Subsection (e) of Section 21.13.3 of
this article shall be deemed to have been in effect and operative three years
prior to its actual effective date. (Added by Ord. No. 164,785, Eff. 6/5/89.)



 



   (e)   The Director of Finance shall enforce the provisions of
Subsection (a) above as if Subsection (f) of Section 21.13.3 of the Los
Angeles Municipal Code was in effect on January 17, 1994.  (Added by Ord No.
169,952, Eff. 8/26/94.)



 



 



 



ARTICLE 1.14
SPECIAL FIRE SAFETY AND PARAMEDIC COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT TAX



 




(Art. 1.14, Added by Ord. No. 163,956, Eff. 11/30/88 adopted by the voters as
a Referendum Ordinance on November 8, 1988, Eff. 11/30/88.)




 



 



Section



21.14.1   Definitions.



21.14.2   Exemptions.



21.14.3   Special Tax.



21.14.4   Purpose.



21.14.5   Special Fund.



21.14.6   Tax Rate.



21.14.7   Adjustments and Refunds.



21.14.8   Amendments.



21.14.9   Savings Clause.



 



 



SEC. 21.14.1.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   The following words and phrases whenever used in this article shall be
construed as defined in this section:



 



   (a)   “parcel” shall mean a unit of real property as shown on
the last equalized assessment roll of Los Angeles County,



 



   (b)   “improvement to property” shall mean a building or other
improvement erected on or affixed to a parcel, and



 



   (c)   “building” shall mean any structure having a roof
supported by columns or walls, for the housing, shelter or enclosure of
persons, animals, chattels or property of any kind.



 



 



SEC. 21.14.2.  EXEMPTIONS.



 



   (a)   Nothing in this article shall be construed as imposing a tax
upon any person when imposition of such tax upon that person would be in
violation of either the Constitution of the United States or the Constitution
of the State of California.



 



   (b)   The tax imposed by this article shall not be levied upon the
federal government, the state government, any state agency, or any local
governmental agency.



 



   (c)   The tax imposed by this article shall not be levied upon a
parcel of property or improvement which is owned by an organization described
in Sections 401(a), 501(c), or 501(d) of Title 26 of the United States Code.
All sections of the United States Code shall mean those sections as they
exist on the effective date of this article and as they may be amended
thereafter.



 



 



SEC. 21.14.3.  SPECIAL TAX.



 



   (a)   There is hereby imposed a special tax on each parcel,
improvement to property, and the use of property within the City of Los
Angeles for purposes set forth in this article. The special tax shall be for
10 fiscal years, commencing with the fiscal year 1989-90 and ending with the
fiscal year 1998-99.



 



   (b)   This tax is enacted under the authority of Section 101 of the
Los Angeles City Charter, other authority held as a charter city, and,
independently thereof, under the authority of California Government Code
Sections 50075-50077.5.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,304, Eff. 6/30/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)



 



 



SEC. 21.14.4.  PURPOSE.



 



   (a)   The purpose of this special tax is to provide funds to the
City to pay:



 



   1.   lease payments to be made by the City pursuant to any lease of
fire safety and paramedic communications and dispatch equipment and systems
to be utilized by the Fire Department;



 



   2.   expenses incurred incident to the authorization, issuance or
sale of the bonds referred to below;



 



   3.   costs or expenses incurred by any lessor of any such
communications and dispatch equipment or systems in connection with the
execution, performance or enforcement of any such lease or any assignment
thereof, the ownership of any such communication and dispatch equipment or
systems or the lease thereof to the City, including but not limited to fees,
costs, expenses or administrative costs of any such lessor in connection with
any such communications equipment or systems;



 



   4.   costs or expenses (including attorneys’ fees and
disbursements) of any trustee under any trust agreement or indenture under
which any of such bonds are issued, including but not limited to compensation
and indemnification of any such trustee;



 



   5.   any insurance premiums payable on account of any such equipment
or systems (including amounts payable to any self–insurance fund) or its
use or operation;



 



   6.   any amounts payable incident to obtaining or maintaining, or
otherwise pursuant to, any credit enhancement or liquidity agreements or
arrangements with respect to any of such bonds or lease;



 



   7.   any amounts required to be paid to the United States of America
as a rebate in order for interest payments on any of such bonds to be exempt
from federal income taxes;



 



   8.   any amount required to be paid into any reserve fund created
under any such trust agreement or indenture; and



 



   9.   the costs of collecting and administering the tax.



 



   The lease payments will serve as collateral for and the source of
repayment of not to exceed $67,000,000 in lease revenue bonds (including
refunding bonds) to be issued as a single issue, or in two or more issues or
series of an issue, by a nonprofit corporation, joint powers authority or
other financing medium.



 



   The net proceeds of the lease revenue bonds are to be used to acquire
such communications and dispatch equipment and systems. The equipment and
systems are required by the Fire Department to provide more rapid, efficient
delivery of fire safety and paramedic services in the City of  Los Angeles.
In the event the City shall lease any of such communications and dispatch
equipment or systems under a lease that is payable from the General Fund as
well as from the special tax, and such lease provides for abatement of rent
or other payments either in whole or in part in the event of damage to or
destruction of any such equipment or systems, then, in the event there is any
such abatement, payments from the special tax permitted by this Section
21.14.4 shall be allocated first to, or in respect of, any component of the
equipment or systems for which payment from the General Fund has abated due
to such damage or destruction, and thereafter to the balance of the equipment
and systems. In the event the City Council does not authorize the leasing of
such equipment and systems, the tax shall not take effect.



 



   (b)   The taxes collected pursuant to this article shall not be used
to replace City General Fund money that would normally be appropriated to
finance fire safety or paramedic service.



 



   (c)   The Los Angeles City Council may provide for the collection of
the special tax in the same manner and subject to the same penalties as, or
with, other charges and taxes fixed and collected by the City, or by the
County of Los Angeles on behalf of the City of Los Angeles. If the special
tax is collected by the County on behalf of the City, the County may deduct
its reasonable costs incurred for such service.



 



   (d)   Director of Finance costs of enforcement and administration of
the tax, including refunds, shall be paid from the special tax revenues.



 



 



SEC. 21.14.5.  SPECIAL FUND.



 



   (a)   There is hereby established a special fund in the City
Treasury entitled Special Fire Safety and Paramedic Communications Equipment
Tax Fund. Money collected pursuant to this article shall be deposited into
said special fund and shall be used exclusively as provided in this article,
for the purpose for which the tax is imposed, and for no other purpose. Money
deposited into this special fund shall not be subject to reversion to the
Reserve Fund of the City of Los Angeles, established under Charter Section
302. Nothing in this section shall prevent disbursements from this special
fund to reimburse the General Fund when money has been advanced from the
General Fund to pay for the uses provided for in this article. (Amended by
Ord. No. 173,304, Eff. 6/30/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)



 



   (b)   Except as hereinafter provided in Subsection (c) of this
section, any money raised by the special tax that remains unencumbered at the
end of any fiscal year may only be used in a succeeding fiscal year for the
purposes stated in this article. The availability of a surplus for any
succeeding year shall be considered by the City Council when fixing the rates
of tax for that year.



 



   (c)   Any amount remaining in the Special Fire Safety and Paramedic
Communications Equipment Tax Fund after all lease revenue bonds issued to
finance the acquisition of fire safety and paramedic communications and
dispatch equipment and systems have been repaid in full, may be used solely
and exclusively for maintaining, replacing or improving such equipment and
systems.



 



 



SEC. 21.14.6.  TAX RATE.



 



   (a)   The tax imposed on each parcel, improvement to property, and
use of property shall be computed for each parcel by applying a rate to the
gross square footage area of any improvements on the parcel. If there are no
improvements on a parcel, the tax shall be computed by applying the rate
established for improvements to 500 square feet regardless of the size of the
parcel. For 10 fiscal years, commencing with fiscal year 1989-90 and
continuing through fiscal year 1998-99, the City Council, by ordinance, shall
impose a rate applicable to unimproved parcels and, for each parcel upon
which there is an improvement to property, shall impose a rate applicable to
the gross square footage area of such improvements, regardless of the use of
the parcel or improvements. The rate shall be established to provide revenue
for each fiscal year sufficient to make the payments estimated to be required
during that fiscal year for the purposes enumerated in Section 21.14.4(a),
and in setting the rate, the City Council shall take into account possible
delinquencies in payments, so that the amount expected to be collected net of
delinquencies will be sufficient to make the estimated required payments.



 



   (b)   Commencing with the 1989-90 fiscal year, and for each of the
nine succeeding fiscal years, the maximum tax rate for the area of
improvements on a parcel shall be $1.00 per one hundred square feet of
improvement area or fraction thereof.



 



   (c)   The maximum tax rate established in Subsection (b) of this
section shall be adjusted annually, commencing with the 1989-90 fiscal year,
to provide for changes in the cost of living and in population, as those
terms are defined in Article XIII B of the California Constitution,
calculated under State Department of Finance procedures applicable to
government spending limitations.



 



   (d)   For any fiscal year the City may, by ordinance, adjust the tax
rate below the maximum amount. Such a reduction shall not prevent a
subsequent levy of taxes for any succeeding fiscal year up to the limits set
forth in this section; however, except as provided in Subsection (c) of this
section, in no case shall the amount of the tax rate to be levied exceed the
maximum amount established by this article without the approval of the voters
by two-thirds of the votes cast by voters voting upon such change in the tax
rate maximum.



 



 



SEC. 21.14.7.  ADJUSTMENTS AND REFUNDS.



 



   (a)   Requests for adjustments involving imposition of this tax may
be filed with the Director of Finance. Upon sufficient evidence of error in
the computation of the tax the Director of Finance or a designee of the
Director of Finance shall cause the tax to be recalculated, and shall so
advise the Los Angeles County Tax Collector or other appropriate official.



 



   (b)   Whenever it is alleged that the amount of any tax has been
overpaid or paid more than once or has been erroneously or illegally
collected or received by the City under this article, the refund procedure
shall be as follows:



 



   1.   No claim for refund of tax payment shall be allowed in whole or
in part unless filed with the Director of Finance within a period of three
years from the date of the claimed overpayment. All such claims for refund of
the amount of the overpayment must be filed on forms furnished, and in the
manner prescribed, by the Director of Finance. Refunds may be made from the
Special Fire Safety and Paramedic Communications Equipment Tax Fund.



 



   2.   In the event the Director of Finance or the City Council denies
the claim, the Director of Finance shall notify the claimant pursuant to
California Government Code Section 913.



 



   (c)   The Director of Finance shall have the same power to
compromise claims involving the special tax, and the same power to accept and
record underpayments or overpayments of such tax, as granted to the Director
of Finance under Subsections (f) and (g) of Section 21.15 of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code with respect to Business Taxes. The Director of Finance shall
have the same authority to make refunds of this tax as is provided in
Sections 22.12 and 22.13 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.



 



   (d)   If the County of Los Angeles does not collect any tax due
under this article, then the Director of Finance shall have the power and
duty to enforce all of the provisions of this article. In such cases the
Director of Finance, for taxes not paid, may make an assessment against the
owner of a parcel and improvements, or against the owner of improvements on
another’s land, in the manner provided in Section 21.16 of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code. Any unpaid tax due under this article shall be subject to
Sections 21.19, 21.20, and 21.21 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.



 



   (e)   The special tax shall be due in two equal installments in
accordance with the collection procedures of the Los Angeles County Tax
Collector with the first installment due November 1, and the second
installment due the next succeeding February 1, in each fiscal year. The
owner of the land, land and improvements, or improvements, at the time set
forth in California Revenue and Taxation Code Sections 405 and 2192 for each
fiscal year, shall have a personal obligation to the City of Los Angeles
until the tax is paid for each fiscal year.



 



   (f)   The Director of Finance may prepare a questionnaire to be
served on the owner of a parcel or improvements subject to the tax imposed by
this article. The questionnaire may request information which would be useful
to the Director of Finance in the enforcement or administration of this
article. The failure by an owner to provide the information requested within
30 days of receipt of the request, or the act of an owner in knowingly
providing false information, shall be a misdemeanor.



 



   (g)   In determining the gross square footage area of improvements
the Director of Finance may use County Assessor’s records, City records,
questionnaires and any other records the Director of Finance deems reliable.



 



 



SEC. 21.14.8.  AMENDMENTS.



 



   Procedural provisions of this article may be amended by ordinance
passed by the City Council.



 



 



SEC. 21.14.9.  SAVINGS CLAUSE.



 



   If any section, subsection, part, clause, sentence or phrase of this
article or the application thereof is for any reason held to be invalid or
unconstitutional by the decision of any court of competent jurisdiction, the
validity of the remaining portions of the article, the application thereof,
and the tax imposed shall not be affected thereby but shall remain in full
force and effect, it being the intention of the City Council and the voters
to adopt each and every section, subsection, part, clause, sentence or phrase
regardless of whether any other section, subsection, part, clause, sentence
or phrase or the application thereof is held to be invalid or
unconstitutional.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 1.15
PARKING OCCUPANCY TAX



 



 



Section



21.15.1   Definitions.



21.15.2   Tax Imposed.



21.15.3   Occupant to Pay Tax to the Operator.



21.15.4   Operator’s Duties.



21.15.5   Exemptions.



21.15.6   Registration of Operators.



21.15.7   Reporting and Remitting.



21.15.8   Penalties and Interest.



21.15.9   Additional Powers and Duties of Director of Finance.



21.15.10   Assessment – Administrative Remedy.



21.15.11   Records.



21.15.12   Refunds.



21.15.13   Actions to Collect.



21.15.14   Savings Clause.



 



 



SEC. 21.15.1.  DEFINITIONS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 165,949, Eff. 7/5/90.)



 



   Except where the context otherwise requires, the definitions given in
this section shall govern the construction of this article.



 



   (a)   Motor Vehicle.  “Motor vehicle” means every
self-propelled vehicle operated or suitable for operation on the highway.



 



   (b)   Occupancy.  “Occupancy” means the use or possession or
the right to the use or possession of any space for the parking of a motor
vehicle or any other purpose in a parking facility.



 



   (c)   Occupant.  “Occupant” means a person who, for a
consideration, uses, possesses or has the right to use or possess any space
for the parking of a motor vehicle in a parking facility under any lease,
concession, permit, right of access, license to use or other agreement or
otherwise, whether voluntarily or involuntarily. Occupant shall be deemed to
include any person required to pay any valet or service labor charge in
connection with the parking of motor vehicles on public or private property
and any person required to pay a charge for the occupancy of parking space by
another person by means of validation or otherwise.



 



   (d)   Operator.  “Operator” means the person who conducts a
parking facility, whether in the capacity of owner, lessee, mortgagee in
possession, licensee, valet or other service supplier or any other capacity.
When the operator performs his functions through a managing agent of any type
or character other than an employee, the managing agent shall also be deemed
an operator for purposes of this article and shall have the same duties and
liabilities as his principal. When the managing agent collects parking fees
and tax on behalf of his principal and deposits the same into the
principal’s account in a financial institution, such principal shall be
responsible for reporting and remitting the tax to the City. It shall be the
duty of the managing agent to provide the Director of Finance with the name
and address of each principal who will be responsible for reporting and
remitting the tax to the City. Compliance with the provisions of this article
by either the principal or the managing agent shall be considered to be
compliance by both. A person who qualifies as an operator shall not, by
reason of being exempt from the tax imposed in this article, be exempt from
the duties and liabilities of an operator imposed under this article.



 



   (e)   Parking Meter.  “Parking meter” means any device which,
when the recording device thereof is set in motion, or immediately following
the deposit of any coin, shall register the period of time that any motor
vehicle may be parked adjacent thereto.



 



   (f)   Parking Facility.  “Parking facility” means any outdoor
space or uncovered plot, place, street, lot, parcel, yard or enclosure, or
any portion thereof, or any building or structure, or any portion thereof,
where or in which a motor vehicle may be parked, stored, housed or kept, for
which any charge is made.



 



   (g)   Person.  “Person” means any natural person, partnership,
joint venture, joint stock company, corporation, estate, trust, business
trust, receiver, administrator, executor, assignee, trustee in bankruptcy,
firm, company, association, club, syndicate, society, municipal corporation,
the State of California, political subdivision of the State of California,
the United States, instrumentality of the United States, or any group or
combination acting as a unit, whether mutual, cooperative, fraternal,
nonprofit or otherwise.



 



   (h)   Parking Fee.  “Parking fee” means the consideration
charged, whether or not received, for the occupancy or use of space in a
parking facility valued in money, whether received in money, goods, labor or
otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits and property and services of
any kind or nature, without any deduction therefrom. The parking fee shall be
deemed to include the total charges required to be paid by an occupant,
including, but not limited to, any valet or service labor charge in
connection with the use or occupancy of parking space on public or private
property. Nothing shall be construed to mean that a parking fee is charged to
the occupant of space in a parking facility for the sale of petroleum
products, automobile parts or other tangible personal property, the rendering
of services, including car wash services, totally unconnected with the use or
occupancy of parking space, or where parking space is provided to the
occupant as a compliment from the operator and where no consideration is
charged to or received from any other person.



 



 



SEC. 21.15.2.  TAX IMPOSED.



 



   For the privilege of occupying space in any parking facility in the
City of Los Angeles, each occupant is subject to and shall pay a tax in the
amount of ten percent (10%) of the parking fee. The tax imposed by this
article shall be paid upon any occupancy on and after August 1, 1990,
although such occupancy is pursuant to a contract, lease or other arrangement
made prior to such date. Where the parking fee is paid, or charged or billed,
or falls due on either a weekly, monthly or other term basis, the parking fee
so paid, charged, billed or fallen due shall be subject to the tax herein
imposed to the extent that it covers any portion of the period occurring on
or after August 1, 1990 and such payment, charge, bill or parking fee due
shall be apportioned on the basis of the proration of the number of days
covered thereby. In computing the tax herein imposed, the fractional part of
one cent shall be disregarded unless it amounts to one-half of one cent or
more, in which case the amount shall be increased to the next highest cent.
The tax herein imposed constitutes a debt owed by the occupant to the City,
which is extinguished by payment to the operator or the City.



 



 



SEC. 21.15.3.  OCCUPANT TO PAY TAX TO THE OPERATOR.



 



   Unless prohibited by the laws of the United States or the State of
California or exempted by the provisions of this article, every occupant
occupying parking space in a parking facility shall be required to pay the
tax imposed herein to the operator along with the parking fee for occupancy.
If the parking fee is paid in installments, or if an amount paid is less than
the full amount of parking fee and tax accrued at the time of payment, a
proportionate share of the tax shall be deemed to have been paid with each
such payment or installment. Any unpaid tax shall be due upon the
occupant’s ceasing to occupy parking space in the parking facility. If for
any reason the tax is not paid to the operator, the Director of Finance shall
require that such tax shall be paid directly to the City. Payment of the tax
to the operator does not relieve the occupant of liability for the tax to the
City until the tax has been remitted to the City by the operator, unless the
occupant has a receipt for the parking fee and tax issued by the operator.



 



 



SEC. 21.15.4.  OPERATOR’S DUTIES.



 



   Each operator shall collect the tax imposed by this article to the same
extent and at the same time as the parking fee is collected from every
occupant. In all cases in which the tax is not collected by the operator from
the occupant, the operator shall be liable to the City for the amount of tax
due on the amount of the taxable parking fee collected from the occupant
under the provisions of this article the same as though the tax were paid by
the occupant. The amount of tax shall be separately stated from the amount of
the parking fee charged, and each occupant, upon demand, shall be given a
receipt for payment. No operator shall advertise or hold out or state to the
public or any occupant, directly or indirectly, that the tax or any part
thereof will be assumed or absorbed by the operator or that it will not be
added to the parking fee for the parking space, or that, if added, it or any
part thereof will be refunded.



 



 



SEC. 21.15.5.  EXEMPTIONS.



 



   No tax shall be imposed upon:



 



   (a)   Any person as to whom or any occupancy as to which it is
beyond the power of the City to impose the tax herein provided;



 



   (b)   The parking fee for any occupancy of parking space in a
parking facility which is paid by the deposit of a coin or coins in a parking
meter owned or operated by the City and located adjacent to said parking
space.



 



   (c)   The parking fee for any occupancy of parking space in a
parking facility which is part of residential or hotel premises if the
occupant of said parking space is a resident of, or a registered guest for
dwelling, lodging or sleeping purposes at, said premises for a period of at
least a full calendar month or 30 or more consecutive calendar days, counting
portions of calendar days as full days, or the parking fee for any occupancy
of parking space by a registered hotel guest for dwelling, lodging or
sleeping purposes for a period of at least a full calendar month or 30 or
more consecutive calendar days, counting portions of calendar days as full
days, in a parking facility not located on the hotel premises if the parking
fee is added to the room bill of the registered guest and paid by said
registered guest to the hotel. For purposes of this subsection, “hotel”
shall have the same meaning as is provided in Subsection (b) of Section
21.7.2 of this chapter. Any occupant described in this subsection shall not
be deemed exempt until the period of at least a full calendar month or 30
consecutive calendar days has expired unless there is an agreement in writing
between the operator and the occupant providing for a period of occupancy of
at least a full calendar month or 30 or more consecutive calendar days. 
(Added by Ord. No. 166,309, Eff. 11/16/90, Oper. 8/1/90.)



 



   (d)   The parking fee for occupancy by a local resident of parking
space in any parking facility, which space, as a condition of a City permit,
is dedicated for occupancy exclusively by local residents.  (Added by Ord.
No. 168,618, Eff. 4/4/93, Oper. 6/1/93.)



 



   (e)   The parking fee for the occupancy of parking space in a
parking facility by any new unregistered motor vehicle subsequent to its
importation into the United States or prior to its exportation from the
United States.  No person shall be entitled to a refund for any tax year
prior to 2002 due to the application of the exemption set forth herein. 
(Added by Ord. No. 174,373, Eff. 1/26/02.)



 



   (f)   The parking fee for occupancy by a mobile food facility stored
at or within a commissary as required by California Health and Safety Code
Section 114295.  (Added by Ord. No. 182,291, Eff. 12/12/12.)



 



 



SEC. 21.15.6.  REGISTRATION OF OPERATORS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 182,283, Eff. 11/19/12.)



 



   (a)   Prior to commencing business, or within 15 days after the
effective date of this Section, whichever is later, each operator of any
parking facility providing parking space to occupants and not exempted by
Section 21.15.5 shall register each parking facility with the Director of
Finance and obtain a "Parking Occupancy Registration Certificate" (PORC)
which shall be at all times posted in a conspicuous place on the premises. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the certificate for any unattended parking
facility may be maintained at any other business location of the operator. 
Said certificate shall among other things state the following:



 



   1.   The name of the operator;



 



   2.   The address of the parking facility;



 



   3.   The date upon which the certificate was issued; and



 



   4.   "This Parking Occupancy Registration Certificate signifies that
the person named on the face hereof has fulfilled the requirements of Article
1.15 of Chapter II of the Los Angeles Municipal Code by registering with the
Director of Finance for the purpose of collecting from parking space
occupants the Parking Occupancy Tax and remitting said tax to the Director of
Finance.  This certificate does not authorize any person to conduct any
unlawful business or to conduct any lawful business in an unlawful manner,
nor to operate a parking facility without strictly complying with all local
applicable laws, including but not limited to those requiring a permit from
any board, commission, department or office of this City."



 



   The PORC will expire on a date certain set by the Director of
Finance.  The operator must apply for renewal of the PORC before it expires
if the operator intends to continue to engage in business in the City. 
Except as provided below, the Director of Finance may renew a PORC annually
without issuing a new PORC.



 



   The PORC may not be assigned or transferred.  The operator shall
immediately surrender to the Director of Finance the PORC for that location
upon the operator's cessation of business at that location or upon the sale
or transfer of the business.



 



   The PORC shall not be issued until the operator has obtained and filed
a bond in accordance with subsection (d) below.



 



   (b)   The holder of the PORC shall remain presumptively liable for
the collection of the Parking Occupancy Tax at the location named in the
certificate, and for the reporting and remittance of such taxes to the
Director of Finance as set forth in Section 21.15.4 unless and until the
holder of the PORC both: (i) notifies the Director of Finance in writing that
the holder has ceased to conduct a parking business at such location and pays
all Parking Occupancy Taxes then due to the City; and (ii) surrenders the
PORC for that location to the Director of Finance.



 



   (c)   The Director of Finance may refuse to issue, or may revoke,
the PORC at any time if the Director of Finance determines that the operator,
or any signatory to the application, or any person holding a legal or
beneficial interest, whether direct or indirect, actual or constructive, in
said operator ("Beneficial Owner") is not in compliance with any provision of
the Los Angeles Municipal Code, including without limitation any provision
relating to the payment of Business Taxes or Parking Occupancy Taxes
(including the bond requirement as set forth below) for any other location or
business.



 



   Solely for purposes of determining under this Section whether any such
operator, signatory, or Beneficial Owner is not in compliance with any
provision of the Los Angeles Municipal Code, the Director of Finance may
disregard any corporation or association or other entity owned or controlled,
directly or indirectly,  by any such operator, signatory, or Beneficial
Owner and consider such corporation, association, or other entity's
operations and liabilities as conducted by or as owned by any one or more of
such corporation, association, or other entity's officers, directors,
partners, members, or owners.  For purposes of this Section, (i) the term
"owned" means ownership of 50 percent (50%) or more of the outstanding
ownership interests in such corporation, association, or other entity; and
(ii) the term "controlled" includes any kind of control, whether direct or
indirect, actual or constructive, whether legally enforceable and however
exercisable or exercised over such corporation, association, or other
entity.  A presumption of control arises if the operator, signatory, or
Beneficial Owner is (or was at any relevant time) an officer, director,
partner, or member of such corporation, association, or entity.



 



   (d)   Bond Requirement.



 



   1.   Effective January 1, 2013, auto park operators will be required
to file a bond with the Office of Finance, naming the City of Los Angeles as
exclusive beneficiary, at all times the operator engages in such business. 
The bond shall be in the following amounts:



 



 




If the annual gross receipts for the parking facility, or the estimated
annual gross receipts for a new parking facility, are:

 

Then the bond amount shall be:



Less than $50,000
 

$5,000



$50,000 - $100,000
 

$10,000



$100,000.01 - $150,000
 

$15,000



$150,000.01 - $200,000
 

$20,000



$200,000.01 - $250,000
 

$25,000



$250,000.01 - $300,000
 

$30,000



$300,000.01 - $350,000
 

$35,000



$350,000.01 - $400,000
 

$40,000



$400,000.01 - $450,000
 

$45,000



$450,000.01 - $500,000
 

$50,000



$500,000.01 - $600,000
 

$60,000



$600,000.01 - $700,000
 

$70,000



$700,000.01 - $800,000
 

$80,000



$800,000.01 - $900,000
 

$90,000



$900,000.01 - $1,000,000
 

$100,000



$1,000,000.01 - $1,250,000
 

$125,000



$1,250,000.01 - $1,500,000
 

$150,000



$1,500,000.01 - $1,750,000
 

$175,000



$1,750,001.01 - $2,000,000
 

$200,000



$2,000,000.01 - $2,250,000
 

$225,000



$2,250,000.01 - $2,500,000
 

$250,000



$2,500,000.01 - $3,000,000
 

$300,000



$3,000,000.01 - $3,500,000
 

$350,000



$3,500,000.01 - $4,000,000
 

$400,000



$4,000,000.01 - $4,500,000
 

$450,000



$4,500,000.01 - $5,000,000
 

$500,000



$5,000,000.01 - $6,000,000
 

$600,000



Greater than $6,000,000.01
 

$700,000





 



   2.   A bond, in the applicable amount as prescribed above, must be
filed no later than February 28, 2013, for each parking facility conducted by
an operator prior to January 1, 2013.  For every parking facility commencing
business on or after January 1, 2013, each operator must file the applicable
bond no later than the close of business on the last day of the month
following the month in which the operator commences operation of the parking
facility.



 



   3.   The Director of Finance, or the Director's designee, may
independently establish the annual gross receipts for a parking facility and
set the bond amount pursuant to the above schedule, based on that
determination.  If, at the end of the calendar year, the gross receipts for
a parking facility have increased to at least five percent above the amount
that would be required for the next larger bond under the above schedule, the
operator, as defined herein, shall obtain a new bond in the increased amount
by the following February month-end.  If at the end of any calendar year the
gross receipts for the parking facility have decreased by at least five
percent below the amount that would be required for the next smaller bond
under the above schedule, the operator may apply to the Office of Finance for
a reduction of the bond amount.



 



   4.   This bond requirement does not apply to an operator that is a
governmental entity or an Official Police Garage as defined by Section
80.77.4 of Chapter VIII of this Code.  However, this bond requirement is
applicable to a non-governmental applicant operating a parking facility on
behalf of a governmental entity.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,961, Eff.
5/16/14.)



 



   5.   This bond requirement is applicable for each parking facility
conducted by the operator, whether in the capacity of owner, lessee,
mortgagee in possession, licensee, valet or other service supplier or any
other capacity.



 



   6.   The bond shall be executed by the operator as principal, and by
a corporation or association which is licensed by the Insurance Commissioner
of the State of California to transact the business of fidelity and surety
insurance, as surety.  The operator shall keep the bond in full force and
effect for the duration of the PORC and all renewals thereof issued to such
operator.  If the bond provides that the term thereof shall be continuous
until canceled, the operator shall provide the Director of Finance, or the
Director's designee, with certification from the surety of the renewal or
continuation of the bond at the same time that the applicant files its annual
renewal of its PORC.



 



   7.   The bond shall contain conditions that require the operator to
comply fully with all the provisions of Articles 1 and 1.15 of Chapter 2 of
the Los Angeles Municipal Code.  The bond shall be payable to the City of
Los Angeles in the amount of all unpaid Parking Occupancy Taxes on amounts of
taxable parking fees collected by the applicant or operator, together with
all administrative collection costs, interest, penalties, and other costs and
charges applicable thereto; provided however, the aggregate liability of the
surety for any and all claims which may arise under such bond shall in no
event exceed the face amount of such bond regardless of the amount due and
owing to the City of Los Angeles.  The City may bring an action upon the
bond for recovery of any unpaid Parking Occupancy Taxes, administrative
collection costs, interest, penalties and other costs and charges at any time
prior to the expiration of the period of limitations applicable to the
collection of such unpaid taxes by the Director of Finance or the Director's
designee.



 



   8.   The surety may cancel the bond(s) at any time by filing with
the Principal, thirty (30) days written notice of its desire to be relieved
of liability with mandatory copy sent to the Office of Finance.  The surety
shall not be discharged from any liability already accrued under the bond(s),
or which shall accrue before the expiration of the thirty (30) day period.



 



   9.   The operator and the surety have the express duty to notify the
Office of Finance no later than thirty (30) days prior to the termination of
a bond agreement.



 



   10.   When there is an assessment of Parking Occupancy Taxes against
an operator, the Director of Finance, or the Director's designee, shall issue
the assessment against the operator, and the operator's surety.  The
liability of the surety shall not exceed the face value of the bond(s).  The
Director of Finance, or the Director's designee, shall provide notice of such
assessment to the operator and the surety.  An operator's request for an
administrative hearing shall be construed by the Director of Finance, or the
Director's designee, as a request on behalf of both the operator and the
surety.  The surety may request an administrative hearing pursuant to LAMC
Section 21.15.10.  The taxpayer and surety hearing may be consolidated at
the discretion of the Director of Finance.  Upon the exhaustion of the
administrative appeals process, the operator and the surety shall be liable
to the City of Los Angeles in the amount of the determination or decision
reached by the Assessment Review Officer or by the Board of Review.  In the
event that the amount of the determination exceeds the amount of the bond(s),
the surety shall be liability for the amount of the bond(s) and the operator
shall remain liable for the full determination.  If neither the operator nor
the surety request an administrative hearing, the operator and the surety
shall be liable to the City of Los Angeles in the amount of the assessment,
provided that the surety's liability shall not exceed the face amount of the
bond.



 



   The surety shall be subject to the same requirements as the operator
with regard to payment of the tax liability and exhaustion of administrative
remedies prior to seeking judicial relief.  The Director of Finance may
exercise all remedies against the surety that are available to the Director
of Finance as to an operator or any other person determined to be liable for
a tax.



 



   11.   Interest and penalty shall continue to accrue on all unpaid
Parking Occupancy Taxes that are determined to be owed and due at the
exhaustion of the administrative appeals process.



 



   12.   An operator that fails to qualify for the issuance of a bond
by a surety will be required to establish a deposit account in favor of the
City of Los Angeles in the amount of fifty percent of the prescribed bond
amount for each parking facility conducted by the operator.  The same time
periods prescribed for the filing of a bond with the Office of Finance will
be applicable for the establishment of such deposit account.



 



   13.   Funds placed into an applicant's or operator's deposit account
in favor of the City of Los Angeles are subject to collection by the Office
of Finance as partial or full satisfaction for delinquent Parking Occupancy
Taxes as determined at the exhaustion of the administrative appeals process.



 



   14.   An operator that either fails to renew a bond or has received
thirty (30) day notice from the surety that the bond will be canceled must
file a new bond or evidence of a deposit account with the Office of Finance
no later than thirty (30) days after the bond's termination.



 



   15.   An operator that fails to submit the bond filing(s) to the
Office of Finance or fails to establish a deposit account within the
prescribed time periods will also be subject to the revocation or denial of a
Police Auto Park Permit.



 



   16.   Effective tax year 2017, this bond requirement does not apply
to an operator that offers its daily customers the option to pay by credit
cards widely used by or generally available to the public, provided the
operator continues to report timely and accurately and provides access to
electronic records of credit card transactions to the Office of Finance. 
(Added by Ord. No. 184,483, Eff. 10/24/16.)



 



 



SEC. 21.15.7.  REPORTING AND REMITTING.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 176,004, Eff. 7/7/04, Oper. 12/1/04.)



 



   Each operator shall, on or before the 25th day of each calendar month,
make a statement to the Director of Finance of the total fees charged and
received, and the amount of tax collected for parking occupancies during the
preceding calendar month.  At the time the statement is filed, the full
amount of the tax collected, and tax not collected but required to be
collected, shall be remitted to the Director of Finance.  Except as provided
in Sec. 21.15.8, an operator shall not be required to remit to the Director
of Finance any amount of tax not collected and not required to be collected
from an occupant.  All taxes collected and required to be collected by
operators pursuant to this article shall be held in trust for the account of
the City until payment thereof is made to the City.  The full amount of tax
due, whether collected or owed but not collected, under this Article shall be
deemed a debt owed to the City by the operator and shall be discharged only
upon payment to the City.



 



   Statements and payments are due immediately upon cessation of business
for any reason, at which time the operator shall furnish the Director of
Finance with the name and address of the successor operator.



 



   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the amount of taxes required to be
remitted by an operator to the City pursuant to this Section 21.15.7 shall be
automatically offset by the City in an amount equal to special taxes levied,
collected and satisfied, by a City Community Tax District, formed pursuant to
Division 6, Chapter 10 of the Los Angeles Administrative Code, against the
operator's property during the preceding calendar month.  The sum of the
operator’s monthly parking occupancy tax remittance to the City and the
operator’s monthly special tax payment shall equal the amount of parking
occupancy tax required to be collected pursuant to this article.  The City
may request from the applicable operator or the legislative body of the
Community Taxing District documentation or other information necessary to
substantiate the special tax payment.  (Para. Added by Ord. No. 179,937,
Eff. 7/14/08.)



 



   The automatic tax offset of the parking occupancy taxes due pursuant to
this article shall not exceed the rate of parking occupancy tax levied by the
City, and no tax offset shall be provided for the amount of special taxes
paid by an operator in excess of the rate of parking occupancy tax levied by
the City.  (Para. Added by Ord. No. 179,937, Eff. 7/14/08.)



 



 



SEC. 21.15.8.  PENALTIES AND INTEREST.



 



   (a)   Taxes collected or required to be collected by an operator
which are not remitted to the Director of Finance on or before the due dates
fixed in Section 21.15.7 of this article, or fixed by the Director of Finance
as provided therein, are delinquent.



 



   (b)   Interest and penalties for delinquency in remittance of any
tax collected or required to be collected, or any deficiency determination,
shall attach and be paid by the operator at the rates and in the same manner
as is provided in Section 21.05 of this Chapter for delinquency in the
payment of Business Tax, except that a month shall commence on the 26th day
of each calendar month and terminate on the 25th day of the succeeding
calendar month.  (Amended by Ord. No. 176,471, Eff. 3/22/05, Oper. 12/1/04.)



 



   (c)   The Director of Finance shall have the power to impose
additional penalties upon an operator for fraud and negligence in reporting
and remitting in the same manner and at the same rates as are provided in
Section 21.05 of this chapter for such penalties upon persons required to pay
Business Tax.



 



   (d)   For collection purposes only, every penalty imposed and such
interest as accrues under the provisions of this section shall become a part
of the tax herein required to be remitted.  (Amended by Ord. No. 174,085,
Eff. 8/19/01.)



 



 



SEC. 21.15.9.  ADDITIONAL POWERS AND DUTIES OF DIRECTOR OF FINANCE.



 



   (a)   The Director of Finance shall have the power and duty, and is
hereby directed to enforce each and all of the provisions of this article.



 



   (b)   In administering and enforcing the provisions of this article,
the Director of Finance shall have the same powers and duties with respect to
collecting the tax provided herein as he has under Section 21.15 of this
chapter with respect to collecting the Business Tax.



 



   (c)   The provisions of Sections 21.17, 21.20 and 21.21 of this
chapter shall apply to the administration and collection of the tax provided
herein in the same manner as they apply to the administration and collection
of the Business Tax.



 



 



SEC. 21.15.10.  ASSESSMENT – ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDY.



 



   Whenever the Director of Finance determines that any tax is or may be
due to the City under the provisions of this article, the Director of Finance
may make and give notice of an assessment for such tax. The manner of making
and providing notice of such assessment, the right to a hearing, the manner
of providing for and conducting such hearing, the preparation and service of
the decision, and the manner of filing and passing upon exceptions shall be
the same as are provided in Section 21.16 of this chapter.



 



 



SEC. 21.15.11.  RECORDS.



 



   It shall be the duty of every operator liable for the collection and
payment to the City of any tax imposed by this article to keep and preserve,
for a period of four years, all records as may be necessary to determine the
amount of such tax as he may have been liable for the collection of and
payment to the City, which records the Director of Finance shall have the
right to inspect at all reasonable times.



 



 



SEC. 21.15.12.  REFUNDS.



 



   (a)   Whenever the amount of any tax has been overpaid or paid more
than once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the
City under this article, it may be refunded as provided in this section.
Except as otherwise provided in this section, refunds of overpaid taxes shall
be made in the same manner as is provided in Section 21.07 of this chapter
for refunds of overpayments of Business Tax.



 



   (b)   An operator may claim a refund or take as credit against taxes
collected and remitted the amount overpaid, paid more than once or
erroneously or illegally collected or received when it is established in a
manner prescribed by the Director of Finance that the person from whom the
tax has been collected was not liable for the tax; provided, however, that
neither a refund nor a credit shall be allowed unless the amount of the tax
so collected has either been refunded to such person or credited to rent
subsequently payable by such person to the operator.



 



   (c)   An occupant may obtain a refund of taxes overpaid or paid more
than once or erroneously or illegally collected or received by the City by
filing a claim in the manner provided in Section 21.07 of this chapter, but
only when the tax was paid by the occupant directly to the Director of
Finance, or when the occupant having paid the tax to the operator,
establishes to the satisfaction of the Director of Finance that the occupant
has been unable to obtain a refund from the operator who collected the tax.



 



   (d)   No refund shall be paid under the provisions of this section
unless the claimant establishes his right thereto by written records showing
entitlement thereto.



 



 



SEC. 21.15.13.  ACTIONS TO COLLECT.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 182,283, Eff. 11/19/12.)



 



   Any tax required to be paid by any occupant under the provisions of
this Article shall be deemed a debt owed by the occupant to the City.  Any
such tax collected by an operator which has not been paid to the City shall
be deemed a debt owed by the operator to the City.  In addition to the
operator itself, the Director of Finance may collect an operator's
liabilities, including interest and penalties, from any person or persons the
Director of Finance determines was responsible for performing the acts of
collecting, accounting for, and remitting the Parking Occupancy Taxes to the
City and failed to do so, or who had the power to control the financial
decision-making process by which the operator allocates funds to creditors in
reference to the operator's obligation to remit the Parking Occupancy Taxes
to the City.  When it is not clear who the person or persons responsible to
the City are, the Director of Finance may presume the President, Chief
Executive Officer, and/or Chief Financial Officer of a corporation or any
managing partner or member of an association to be a person responsible for
performing such acts.  The Director of Finance is authorized to name all
such persons potentially responsible for performing such acts in a notice of
assessment pursuant to Section 21.15.10 and may send such notice to the same
address to be used for the operator's assessment as set forth in Sections
21.15.10 and 21.16 in this chapter and such persons shall have the same
rights as the operator to appeal the assessment as set forth in said
sections.  The liability of such persons shall be joint and several with
each other and with the operator.  Any person owing money to the City under
the provisions of this Article shall be liable to an action brought in the
name of the City for the recovery of such amount.  Any operator who
undertakes legal action to recover any unpaid parking fee from an occupant
may include the amount of tax due from the occupant in the amount sought to
be recovered.



 



 



SEC. 21.15.14.  SAVINGS CLAUSE.



 



   If any section, subsection, part, clause, sentence or phrase of this
article or the application thereof is for any reason held to be invalid or
unconstitutional by the decision of any court of competent jurisdiction, the
validity of the remaining portions of this article, the application thereof
and the tax imposed shall not be affected thereby, but shall remain in full
force and effect, it being the intention of the City Council to adopt each
and every section, subsection, part, clause, sentence or phrase regardless of
whether any other section, subsection, part, clause, sentence or phrase or
the application thereof is held to be invalid or unconstitutional.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 1.16
SPECIAL POLICE COMMUNICATIONS / 911 SYSTEM TAX



 




(Art. 1.16, Chapter II, approved by the voters of Los Angeles, Nov. 3, 1992,
Special Municipal Election, Added by Ord. No. 168,368, Eff. 12/4/92.)




 



 



Section



21.16.1   Definitions.



21.16.2   Exemptions.



21.16.3   Special Tax.



21.16.4   Purpose.



21.16.5   Special Fund.



21.16.6   Tax Rate.



21.16.7   Adjustments and Refunds.



21.16.8   Amendments.



21.16.9   Savings Clause.



 



 



SEC. 21.16.1.  DEFINITIONS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 168,368, Eff. 12/4/92.)



 



   The following words and phrases whenever used in this article shall be
construed as defined in this section:



 



   (a)   “building” shall mean any structure having a roof
supported by columns or walls, for the housing, shelter or enclosure of
persons, animals, chattels or property of any kind;



 



   (b)   “improvement to property” shall mean a building or other
improvement erected on or affixed to a parcel;



 



   (c)   “parcel” shall mean a unit of real property as shown on
the last equalized assessment roll of Los Angeles County; and



 



   (d)   “system” shall mean a police dispatch system, known as the
Police Emergency Command Control Communications System, which includes the
following:  a replacement and enhanced voice and digital radio system
component; a replacement for the Police Department’s computer-aided
dispatch system and the associated police dispatch center located in the
metropolitan area; hand-held radios and mobile data terminals; and the
addition of a new police/fire 9-1-1 communications component, and a new
police communications and dispatch center to be located in the San Fernando
Valley.



 



 



SEC. 21.16.2.  EXEMPTIONS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 168,368, Eff. 12/4/92.)



 



   (a)   Nothing in this article shall be construed as imposing a tax
upon any person when imposition of such tax upon that person would be in
violation of either the Constitution of the United States or the Constitution
of the State of California.



 



   (b)   The tax imposed by this article shall not be levied upon the
federal government, the state government, any state agency, or any local
governmental agency.



 



   (c)   The tax imposed by this article shall not be levied upon a
parcel of property or improvement which is owned by an organization described
in Sections 401(a), 501(c), or 501(d) of Title 26 of the United States
Code.  All sections of the United States Code shall mean those sections as
they exist on the effective date of this article and as they may be amended
thereafter.



 



 



SEC. 21.16.3.  SPECIAL TAX.



   (Added by Ord. No. 168,368, Eff. 12/4/92.)



 



   (a)   There is hereby imposed a special tax on each parcel,
improvement to property, and the use of property within the City of Los
Angeles (hereafter “City”) for the purposes set forth in this article. 
The special tax shall be for a period not greater than 20 fiscal years,
commencing with the fiscal year 1993-94 as set forth in Section 21.16.6
hereof.



 



   (b)   This tax is enacted under the authority of Section 101 of the
Los Angeles City Charter, other authority held as a charter city, and,
independently thereof, under the authority of California Government Code
Sections 50075-50077.5 and California Government Code Sections 53970-53979.
(Amended by Ord. No. 173,304, Eff. 6/30/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)



 



 



SEC. 21.16.4.  PURPOSE.



   (Added by Ord. No. 168,368, Eff. 12/4/92.)



 




   (a)   (i)   The purpose of this special tax is to provide funds
to the City to pay or fund:




 



   1.   lease payments to be made by the City pursuant to any lease of
the System or any component thereof, including any land or building to be
acquired or constructed;



 



   2.   expenses incurred incident to the authorization, issuance or
sale of the bonds referred to below (including refunding bonds);



 



   3.   costs or expenses incurred by any lessor of any component of
the System in connection with the execution, performance or enforcement of
any such lease or any assignment thereof, the acquisition, construction or
ownership of any such component or the lease thereof to the City, including,
but not limited to, fees, costs, expenses or administrative costs of any such
lessor in connection with any such component;



 



   4.   costs or expenses (including attorneys’ fees and
disbursements) of any trustee under any trust agreement or indenture under
which any of the bonds referred to below are issued, including but not
limited to compensation and indemnification of any such trustee;



 



   5.   any amounts required to be paid into any reserve fund created
under any such trust agreement or indenture, or amounts to be set aside for
deposit into reserve funds for bonds referred to below (including refunding
bonds) theretofore or thereafter issued;



 



   6.   any insurance premiums payable on account of any component of
the System or its use or operation, as well as amounts paid to or to be set
aside in any self-insurance fund or risk retention account, or amounts to be
set aside to provide for payment of any deductible under any insurance policy;



 



   7.   any amounts payable incident to obtaining or maintaining, or
otherwise pursuant to, any credit enhancement or liquidity agreements or
arrangements with respect to any of such bonds or lease;



 



   8.   any amounts payable



 



   (a)   incident to obtaining or maintaining, or otherwise pursuant
to, any surety bond, letter of credit or other credit arrangement obtained to
fund initially or at any later date any reserve fund or part thereof created
under any such trust agreement or otherwise in respect of such bonds, or



 



   (b)   to reimburse for any payment made under any such surety bond,
letter of credit or other credit arrangement, including interest thereon;



 



   9.   any amounts payable pursuant to any contract entered into
pursuant to Section 21.16.4 (a)(iii);



 



   10.   any amounts required to be paid to the United States of
America as a rebate in order for interest payments on any of such bonds to be
exempt from federal income taxes;



 



   11.   any amounts to be set aside for payment or prepayment of
future lease payments in respect of any component of the System (whether then
leased or expected to be leased thereafter) or for the defeasance, payment,
prepayment or redemption of any of the bonds referred to below (including
refunding bonds), including the payment of any prepayment penalty or premium;



 



   12.   the costs of collecting and administering the tax; and



 



   13.   any amounts required to reimburse the General Fund of the City
for amounts withdrawn from the General Fund and used for any of the purposes
set forth in this Section 21.16.4.



 



   (ii)   The lease payments referred to in Section 21.16.4(a)(i) will
serve as collateral for and the source of repayment of not to exceed
$235,000,000 aggregate principal amount of lease revenue bonds to be issued
as a single issue, or in two or more issues or series of an issue, by a
nonprofit corporation, joint powers authority or other financing medium. 
Such lease payments may also serve as collateral for and the source of
repayment of refunding bonds issued to refund lease revenue bonds; provided,
however, that unless approved by a vote of not less than two-thirds of the
votes cast by voters voting on a proposition to increase the bonding
authority, refunding bonds shall not be issued if the total net interest cost
to maturity on the refunding bonds plus the principal amount of the refunding
bonds exceeds the total net interest cost to maturity on the bonds to be
refunded plus the principal amount of the bonds to be refunded.



 



   The net proceeds of the lease revenue bonds (excluding refunding bonds)
are to be used to acquire, construct or install components of the System. 
The System is required to provide more rapid, efficient delivery of response
of police, fire, paramedic and other emergency services in the City.  In the
event the City shall lease any components of the System under a lease that is
payable from the General Fund as well as from the special tax, and such lease
provides for abatement of rent or other payments either in whole or in part
in the event of damage to or destruction of any such components, then, in the
event there is any such abatement, payments from the special tax permitted by
this Section 21.16.4 shall be allocated first to, or in respect of, any
component of the System for which payment from the General Fund has abated
due to such damage or destruction, and thereafter to the balance of the
components.



 



   (iii)   In connection with or incident to the entering into or
maintaining any lease of the System or any component thereof or the issuance
or maintenance of any lease revenue bonds contemplated by this ordinance, the
City may enter into any contracts which it determines to be necessary or
appropriate to place the obligations under any lease of the System or any
component thereof, or to place the obligations under the lease revenue bonds,
in whole or in part, on the interest rate, currency, cash flow or other basis
desired by the City, including without limitation, contracts commonly known
as interest rate swap agreements, currency swap agreements, forward payment
conversion agreements, futures, or contracts providing for payments based
upon levels of, or changes in, interest rates, currency exchange rates, stock
or other indices, or contracts to exchange cash flows or a series of
payments, or contracts, including without limitation, interest rate floors or
caps, options, puts or calls to hedge payment, currency, rate, spread or
similar exposure.  These contracts may be entered into with the parties,
selected by the means, contain the payment, security, default, remedy and
other terms and conditions, determined by the City, after giving due
consideration to the creditworthiness of the counter-parties where
applicable, including any rating by a nationally-recognized rating agency or
other criteria as may be appropriate.  The City shall not enter into any of
the foregoing contracts unless the City Council first determines that the
contract is designed to result in a lower payment by the City incident to the
lease of the System or any component thereof.  Contracts or arrangements
authorized by the foregoing shall comply with the provisions of Section
5922(b) of the California Government Code (as in effect on the date this
Ordinance is approved by a vote of not less than two-thirds of the votes cast
by the voters voting on the special tax set forth herein) to the extent
applicable.



 



   (b)   The Los Angeles City Council (hereafter “City Council”)
may provide for the collection of the special tax in the same manner and
subject to the same penalties as, or with, other charges and taxes fixed and
collected by the City, or by the County of Los Angeles on behalf of the City
of Los Angeles.  If the special tax is collected by the County on behalf of
the City, the County may deduct its reasonable costs incurred for such
service.



 



   (c)   Director of Finance of Los Angeles (hereafter “Director of
Finance”) costs and other costs of enforcement and administration of the
tax, including refunds, shall be paid from the special tax revenues.



 



   (d)   No more than $235,000,000 of lease revenue bonds shall be
issued under the authority of this Ordinance, unless a greater amount shall
be approved by a vote of not less than two-thirds of the votes cast by voters
voting on a proposition to increase the bonding authority; provided, however,
that without such voter approval, refunding bonds may be issued as specified
in Section 21.16.4 (a) hereof; and provided further that approval for
additional bonding authority shall not constitute approval of any increase in
the maximum tax rate authorized by Section 21.16.6 hereof, nor shall it
extend the period during which the tax may be imposed, unless expressly
approved by a vote of not less than two-thirds of the votes cast by voters
voting on a proposition to so change the tax rate or to extend the period
during which the tax may be imposed.



 



 



SEC. 21.16.5.  SPECIAL FUND.



   (Added by Ord. No. 168,368, Eff. 12/4/92.)



 



   (a)   There is hereby established a special fund in the City
Treasury entitled Special Police Communications/9-1-1 System Tax Fund. 
Money collected pursuant to this article shall be deposited into said special
fund and shall be used exclusively as provided in this article for the
purpose for which the tax is imposed, and for no other purpose.  Money
deposited into this special fund shall not be subject to reversion to the
Reserve Fund of the City, established under Charter Section 302.  Nothing in
this section shall prevent disbursements from this special fund to reimburse
the General Fund when money has been advanced from the General Fund to pay
the uses provided for in this article. (Amended by Ord. No. 173,304, Eff.
6/30/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)



 



   (b)   The City Treasurer and Controller shall establish within the
Special Police Communications/9-1-1 System Tax Fund separate accounts or
accounting controls so as to enable the City Treasurer and Controller to
account for the uses for which the moneys deposited into the Special Police
Communications/9-1-1 System Tax Fund are to be used.



 



   (c)   Except as hereinafter provided in Subsection (d) of this
section,  (i)  during each fiscal year, any money raised by the special tax
that remains or (by resolution of the City Council) becomes unencumbered for
any of the purposes set forth in Section 21.16.4 hereof may be reallocated to
other purposes authorized by this article by resolution of the City Council
and  (ii)  at the end of any fiscal year any money raised by the special
tax that remains unencumbered for any of the purposes set forth in Section
21.16.4 hereof may only be used in succeeding fiscal years for the purposes
stated in this article as authorized by resolution by the City Council;
provided, however, that the Director of the Office of Administrative and
Research Services may reallocate moneys raised by the special tax to other
purposes set forth in Section 21.16.4 hereof and may authorize the use of
moneys raised by the special tax that are unencumbered or unallocated for any
of the purposes set forth in Section 21.16.4 hereof so long as the amount so
reallocated or authorized shall not be greater than the amount referred to in
Charter Section 343 (as amended from time to time) as the amount which the
Director of the Office of Administrative and Research Services is empowered
to authorize the Controller to transfer without the approval of the Mayor and
the City Council upon the request of the head of any department.  The
availability of unencumbered moneys for any succeeding year shall be
considered by the City Council when fixing the rates of tax for that year.
(Amended by Ord. No. 173,304, Eff. 6/30/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)



 



   (d)   Any amount remaining in the Special Police
Communications/9-1-1 System Tax Fund after all lease revenue bonds issued to
finance the System have been repaid in full, shall be used solely and
exclusively for maintaining, replacing or improving police communications and
dispatch equipment and systems.



 



 



SEC. 21.16.6.  TAX RATE.



   (Added by Ord. No. 168,368, Eff. 12/4/92.)



 



   (a)   The tax imposed on each parcel, improvement to property, and
use of property shall be computed for each parcel by applying a rate to the
gross square footage area of any improvements on the parcel.  If there are
no improvements on a parcel, the tax shall be computed by applying the rate
established for improvements to 500 square feet regardless of the size of the
parcel.  For a period of not more than 20 fiscal years, commencing with
fiscal year 1993-94 and continuing through fiscal year 2012-13, the City
Council, by ordinance, shall impose a rate applicable to unimproved parcels
and, for each parcel upon which there is an improvement to property, shall
impose a rate applicable to the gross square footage area of such
improvements, regardless of the use of the parcel or improvements.  The rate
shall be established to provide revenue for each fiscal year sufficient to
make the payments estimated to be needed, or to fund amounts to be set aside,
for the purposes enumerated in Section 21.16.4 hereof prior to receipt of tax
revenues derived from the tax to be imposed in the subsequent fiscal year,
and in setting the rate, the City Council shall take into account possible
delinquencies in payments, so that the amount expected to be collected, net
of delinquencies, will be sufficient to make the estimated needed payments.



 



   (b)   Commencing with the 1993-94 fiscal year, and for each of the
succeeding fiscal years during which the special tax may be imposed, the
maximum tax rate for the improvements on a parcel shall be $1.75 per one
hundred gross square feet of improvement area or fraction thereof.



 



   (c)   For any fiscal year the City may, by ordinance, adjust the tax
rate below the maximum amount.  Such a reduction shall not prevent a
subsequent levy of taxes for any succeeding fiscal year up to the limits set
forth in this Section 21.16.6; however, in no case shall the amount of the
tax rate to be levied exceed the maximum amount established by this article
without the approval of the voters by two-thirds of the votes cast by voters
voting upon such change in the tax rate maximum.



 



 



SEC. 21.16.7.  ADJUSTMENTS AND REFUNDS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 168,368, Eff. 12/4/92.)



 



   (a)   Requests for adjustments involving imposition of this tax may
be filed with the Director of Finance.  Upon sufficient evidence of error in
the computation of the tax the Director of Finance or a designee of the
Director of Finance shall cause the tax to be recalculated, and shall so
advise the Los Angeles County Tax Collector or other appropriate official.



 



   (b)   Whenever it is alleged that the amount of any tax has been
overpaid or paid more than once or has been erroneously or illegally
collected or received by the City under this article, the refund procedure
shall be as follows:



 



   1.   No claim for refund of tax payment shall be allowed in whole or
in part unless filed with the Director of Finance within a period of three
years from the date of the claimed overpayment.  All such claims for refund
of the amount of the overpayment must be filed on forms furnished, and in the
manner prescribed, by the Director of Finance.  Refunds may be made from the
Special Police Communications/9-1-1 System Tax Fund.



 



   2.   In the event the Director of Finance or the City Council denies
the claim, the Director of Finance shall notify the claimant pursuant to
California Government Code Section 913.



 



   (c)   The Director of Finance shall have the same power to
compromise claims involving the special tax, and the same power to accept and
record underpayments or overpayments of such tax, as granted to the Director
of Finance under Subsections (f) and (g) of Section 21.15 of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code with respect to Business Taxes.  The Director of Finance
shall have the same authority to make refunds of this tax as is provided in
Sections 22.12 and 22.13 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.



 



   (d)   If the County of Los Angeles does not collect any tax due
under this article, then the Director of Finance shall have the power and
duty to enforce all of the provisions of this article.  In such cases the
Director of Finance, for taxes not paid, may make an assessment against the
owner of a parcel and improvements, or against the owner of improvements on
another’s land, in the manner provided in Section 21.16 of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code.  Any unpaid tax due under this article shall be subject to
Sections 21.19, 21.20, and 21.21 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.



 



   (e)   The special tax shall be due in two equal installments in
accordance with the collection procedures of the Los Angeles County Tax
Collector with the first installment due November 1, and the second
installment due the next succeeding February 1, in each fiscal year.  The
owner of the land, land and improvements, or improvements, at the time set
forth in California Revenue and Taxation Code Sections 405 and 2192 for each
fiscal year, shall have a personal obligation to the City until the tax is
paid for each fiscal year.



 



   (f)   The Director of Finance may prepare a questionnaire to be
served on the owner of a parcel or improvements subject to the tax imposed by
this article.  The failure by an owner to provide the information requested
within 30 days of receipt of the request, or the act of an owner in knowingly
providing false information, shall be a misdemeanor.



 



   (g)   In determining the gross square footage area of improvements
the City may use County Assessor’s records, City records, questionnaires
and any other records the Director of Finance deems reliable.



 



 



SEC. 21.16.8.  AMENDMENTS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 168,368, Eff. 12/4/92.)



 



   Procedural provisions of this article may be amended by ordinance
passed by the City Council.



 



 



SEC. 21.16.9.  SAVINGS CLAUSE.



   (Added by Ord. No. 168,368, Eff. 12/4/92.)



 



   If any section, subsection, part, clause, sentence or phrase of this
article or the application thereof is for any reason held to be invalid or
unconstitutional by the decision of any court of competent jurisdiction, the
validity of the remaining portions of this article, the application thereof,
and the tax imposed shall not be affected thereby but shall remain in full
force and effect, it being the intention of the City Council and the voters
to adopt each and every section, subsection, part, clause, sentence or
phrase, regardless of whether any other section, subsection, part, clause,
sentence or phrase or the application thereof is held to be invalid or
unconstitutional.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 1.17
ENTERPRISE ZONE HIRING TAX CREDIT VOUCHER APPLICATION FEES



 




(Added by Ord. No. 176,632, Eff. 6/14/05.)




 



 



Section



21.17.1   General.



21.17.2   Fees for Application.



21.17.3   Reduction of Fees.



21.17.4   Notice of Fee Increases.



21.17.5   Hold Harmless.



21.17.6   Expenditures of Unencumbered, Previously Collected Enterprise
Zone Hiring Tax Credit Voucher Fees.



 



 



SEC. 21.17.1.  GENERAL.



 



   All applicants seeking an Enterprise Zone Hiring Tax Credit Voucher as
authorized by Sections 17053.74 and 23622.7 of the California Revenue and
Taxation Code shall pay a service fee to the Community Development
Department, the City's Enterprise Zone Administrator for processing such
applications.



 



 



SEC. 21.17.2.  FEES FOR APPLICATION.



 



   The State of California has established a fee of ten dollars ($10.00)
for each application submitted to the State by the local Enterprise Zone
Administrator effective November 1, 2004 pursuant to the provisions of
California Government Code Section 7086.  The City has determined that an
additional twenty-five dollar fee ($25.00) is required to offset the cost of
processing such applications by the City.  Applicants for an Enterprise Zone
Hiring Tax Credit Voucher shall pay a service fee of thirty-five dollars
($35.00) to the Community Development Department.  The Department shall
submit ten dollars ($10.00) of this fee to the State of California as
required by State law.  The balance of fees collected shall be used to
offset costs of administering the program by the Community Development
Department.



 



 



SEC. 21.17.3.  REDUCTION OF FEES.



 



   In the event that the State law authorizing the collection of the ten
dollar ($10.00) fee for the State should no longer be in effect, the fee to
be charged by the Community Development Department for each application shall
be twenty-five dollars ($25.00).



 



 



SEC. 21.17.4.  NOTICE OF FEE INCREASES.



 



   If the State determines that the fee to be collected by the Enterprise
Zone Administration is to be increased above the ten dollars ($10.00)
currently authorized, the General Manager of the Community Development
Department or an authorized representative shall issue adequate public notice
of the fee increase and shall adjust its collection of the fee in conformity
with the State requirements.



 



 



SEC. 21.17.5.  HOLD HARMLESS.



 



   Neither the adoption of this ordinance which provides authority for the
collection of the State's Enterprise Zone Tax Credit Voucher Application Fee,
nor any action by any representative of the City in carrying out this
ordinance shall constitute City approval of or ratification of the State's
law.



 



 



SEC. 21.17.6.  EXPENDITURES OF UNENCUMBERED, PREVIOUSLY COLLECTED ENTERPRISE
ZONE HIRING TAX CREDIT VOUCHER FEES.



   (Added by Ord. No. 186,337, Eff. 11/27/19.)



 



   The Economic and Workforce Development Department (EWDD) shall have the
authority to utilize all unencumbered Enterprise Zone Hiring Tax Credit
Voucher fees, previously collected pursuant to this Article, for economic
development activities which are consistent with its mission.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 2
DEFINITIONS – AUTHORITY AND PROCEDURE – REVOCATION OF PERMITS



 



 



Section



22.00   Permits – Board of Police Commissioners.



22.01   Permit Requirements Limited to Original Permits.



22.02   Power to Revoke and Suspend Permits or Certificates – Procedure.



22.03   Board to Notify Permittee.



22.04.1   Failure to Pay Fee Due Under Article 1 of this Chapter.



22.05   Suspended or Revoked Permits – Permittee Not to Engage in
Business.



22.06   Misstatement in Application – Grounds for Revocation.



22.11   Licenses – Veteran’s Exemptions.



22.11.1   Veterans’ Exemptions – Subterfuge Prohibited.



22.12   Refunds – Tax, License and Permit Fees in Excess of $5,000.



22.13   Refunds of Tax, License, Permit or Application Fees by Heads of
Departments.



 



 



SEC. 22.00.  PERMITS – BOARD OF POLICE COMMISSIONERS.



 



   (a)   Definition. For the purposes of this chapter, “Board”
shall mean the Board of Police Commissioners unless otherwise specifically
provided.



 



   (b)   Applications.  Notwithstanding any provision of this Code to
the contrary, every person desiring to conduct, manage, carry on or engage in
any business for which a permit is required from the Board under this Code,
shall file the application for such permit with the Director of Finance upon
forms provided. Applications for change of location, change of ownership,
additional locations, or for special officer commission shall be filed with
the Director of Finance. Upon receipt of the application for a permit or
applications for change of location, change of ownership, additional
locations or for special police officer commissions, the Director of Finance
shall send such applications to the Board. (Amended by Ord. No. 137,438, Eff.
11/7/68.)



 



   (c)   Permit Fees.  Notwithstanding any provision of this Code to
the contrary, all fees for permits from the Board, annual police permit fees,
change of location fees, change of ownership fees and special fees for
additional locations shall be collected by the Director of Finance. Upon
receipt of said fees provided by this Code, the Director of Finance shall
deposit such fees with the City Treasurer.  (Amended by Ord. No. 137,438,
Eff. 11/7/68.)



 



 



SEC. 22.01.  PERMIT REQUIREMENTS LIMITED TO ORIGINAL PERMITS.



 



   All provisions of this Code and of any other ordinance of this city
which provide that no person shall conduct, carry on, or engage in any
business, profession, trade or occupation or do or allow to be done any act,
without first obtaining a permit from the Board so to do, shall be deemed to
apply only to those cases wherein original permits are sought. In cases
involving revocation or suspension proceedings before the Board, the
permittee may, upon paying the annual police permit fee, continue the
activity authorized by their permits pending action of the Board upon such
proceedings. (Amended by Ord. No. 137,438, Eff. 11/7/68.)



 



 



SEC. 22.02.  POWER TO REVOKE AND SUSPEND PERMITS OR CERTIFICATES –
PROCEDURE.



 



   Any permit or certificate granted pursuant to the provisions of this
Code to any person to conduct, carry on or engage In any business,
profession, trade or occupation by any Board, Commission or other person
having authority to do so, unless provision is otherwise specifically made,
shall not be revoked or suspended except as provided in this section.



 



   No such permit or certificate shall be revoked or suspended until a
hearing upon written notice to the permittee or certificate holder shall have
been had by the Board, Commission or other person having authority to do so.
Written notice of such hearing shall be served upon the permittee or
certificate holder in the manner provided for the giving of notice in Section
11.00 of this Code.



 



   Such notice shall state:



 



   (a)   The grounds for complaint or reasons for the revocation or
suspension in clear and concise language.



 



   (b)   The time when and the place where such hearing is to be held.



 



   If a verified complaint is required to be filed with the Board,
Commission or other person having authority to revoke or suspend such permit
or certificate, or if any Board or Commission shall have power to initiate
its own complaint, then a true and correct copy of such complaint shall be
served on the permittee or certificate holder in lieu of stating the grounds
of complaint. However, notice of the time when and the place where such
hearing is to be held shall be served with such complaint.



 



   Such notice or copy of complaint shall be served or given to the
permittee or certificate holder at least five (5) and not more than ten (10)
days prior to the date set for said hearing.



 



   At any such hearing the permittee or certificate holder shall be given
an opportunity to be heard and defend himself, and he may call witnesses in
his behalf.



 



   The Board, Commission or other person conducting such hearings may
continue such hearings from time to time upon good cause being shown therefor.



 



   After conducting such hearing the Board, Commission or other person
having authority may suspend or revoke any such permit or certificate upon
such terms and conditions as, in the exercise of a reasonable and sound
discretion, it shall determine.



 



   Revocation of permit granted by it by a municipal board is a proper
exercise of police power.



   Vaughn v. Board of Police Commissioners, 59 Cal. App. 2d 771, 775.



 



 



SEC. 22.03.  BOARD TO NOTIFY PERMITTEE.



 



   The Board, Commission or other person having authority to revoke or
suspend such permits or certificates shall, orally or in the manner provided
in Section 11.00 for giving notice, notify permittee or certificate holder of
any finding, suspension or revocation made by it or any conditions attached
thereto.



 



 



SEC. 22.04.1.  FAILURE TO PAY FEE DUE UNDER ARTICLE 1 OF THIS CHAPTER.



 



   Whenever under any provision of this Code a regulatory permit is
required for the conduct of any business or occupation upon which a business
tax is imposed by Article 1 of this chapter, or upon which a parking
occupancy tax is imposed by Article 1.15 of this chapter, the failure to pay
that business tax or parking occupancy tax will be grounds for the suspension
or revocation of the permit, but the procedure outlined in Section 22.02
shall be followed.  (Amended by Ord. No. 180,488, Eff. 3/7/09.)



 



 



SEC. 22.05.  SUSPENDED OR REVOKED PERMITS – PERMITTEE NOT TO ENGAGE IN
BUSINESS.



 



   No person whose permit or certificate has been revoked or suspended
pursuant to Section 22.02, or pursuant to any other provision of this Code,
shall engage in or carry on any business or do any act permitted to be done
pursuant to such permit or certificate during the period of suspension or
after revocation thereof, until a new permit or certificate shall have been
granted.



 



 



SEC. 22.06.  MISSTATEMENT IN APPLICATION – GROUNDS FOR REVOCATION.



 



   No person shall make any false, misleading or fraudulent statement or
misrepresent any fact in any application for a permit or in any notice or
record required to be filed with any Board, Commission or other authorized
person of this City. In addition to any other penalties provided in this
Code, such conduct shall be grounds for suspending or revoking any permit
issued to such person.



 



 



SEC. 22.11.  LICENSES – VETERAN’S EXEMPTIONS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 173, 587, Eff. 12/7/00.)



 



   (a)   (Amended by Ord. No. 127,508, Eff. 6/29/64.) Every honorably
discharged soldier, sailor or marine of the United States who is unable to
obtain his livelihood by manual labor shall have the right to hawk, peddle
and vend any goods, wares or merchandise, except spirituous, malt, vinous,
mixed or other intoxicating liquors, without payment of any license or fees
required by this code or ordinance of this city providing for the payment of
such license fee. A certificate of disability by a surgeon of the United
States Army or Navy, or by the police surgeon of this city, or any physician
regularly employed in the receiving hospital of this city, shall be
sufficient proof of such disability. A certificate of honorable discharge
from the United States Army or Navy, or an exemplified copy thereof, shall be
sufficient proof of such service and honorable discharge, and upon
presentation of the same it shall be the duty of the Office of Finance to
issue a license without cost to such a soldier, sailor or marine.



 



   The fact that Section 22.11 exempts a person from having to pay for a
license does not excuse one from obtaining a license.



   People v. Fitzgerald, CR A 1942.



 



   (b)   Each and every license issued under the provisions of this
section shall not be transferable and shall be for the exclusive use of the
person whose name is inserted therein. Such person shall be required to write
his name on the margin of such license and on the stub retained by the Office
of Finance at the time such license is issued. Such person shall be required
to furnish to the Office of Finance at the time of application for such
license, two copies of a photograph of himself. It shall be and hereby is
made the duty of the Office of Finance to satisfy himself by proper
examination and investigation that the same photograph is a true likeness of
the person who makes the application and whose name appears in the discharge
and in the physician’s certificate. One copy of said photograph shall be
attached to the license and the other shall be attached to the stub written
by the Office of Finance. The photograph shall at all times be kept attached
to the license, and any license found without such photograph attached
thereto shall be taken up and be forfeited and the person to whom said
license is issued, and the holder thereof, shall forthwith surrender all
rights thereunder and shall not again be entitled to any license.



 



   Such person shall identify himself by his signature whenever required
so to do by any police officer, license inspector, license collector or other
officer of the City. Should any such license be found in the possession of
any person other than the person named therein it shall be taken up,
surrendered to the Office of Finance and cancelled, and the holder thereof
shall not again be entitled to a license under this section.



 



   Whenever the holder of any license uses any wagon, cart, tray, basket
or other vehicle or receptacle in vending any goods, wares or merchandise
such license shall be inserted, held and carried in a license holder to be
furnished by the Office of Finance, and in the manner prescribed by law.



 



   Every license issued under the provisions of this section shall be
issued for a period of one year from date of issuance thereof. Upon the
expiration of any license, as herein provided, a new license shall be issued
under the provisions of this section. Not more than one license shall be
issued to any discharged soldier, sailor or marine during any one calendar
year from the date of the original license.



 



   (c)   No person, except the person named in such license, shall use
or have in his possession any license issued under the provisions of this
section.



 



   (d)   No person shall sell, purchase or transfer any license issued
under the provisions of this section or transfer or convey the discharge or
certificate mentioned herein to any other person for the purpose of securing
the license herein provided for.



 



 



SEC. 22.11.1.  VETERANS’ EXEMPTIONS – SUBTERFUGE PROHIBITED.



 



   (a)   Purpose of Section. A veteran’s license to hawk, peddle and
vend goods, wares and merchandise issued pursuant to Section 22.11 shall not
be deemed to authorize the license to solicit charitable contributions by
subterfuge or without the permission of the Board of Police Commissioners, as
required by Article 4 of Chapter 4 of this Code. (Amended by Ord. No.
173,283, Eff. 6/26/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)



 



   (b)   Free License – Summary Revocation. Any police officer or
other person charged with the duty of enforcing the license provisions of
this Code shall summarily take away the free license of any person holding
such a license who is observed to violate any provision of Article 2 Chapter
4 of this Code, relating to “Soliciting-Begging.” Any license so taken up
shall be delivered to the Director of Finance who shall mark it
“cancelled.” No subsequent free license shall be issued to the same
licensee.



 



 



SEC. 22.12.  REFUNDS – TAX, LICENSE AND PERMIT FEES IN EXCESS OF $5,000.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 173, 587, Eff. 12/7/00.)



 



   (a)   (Amended by Ord. No. 170,745, Eff. 12/3/95.) Whenever any
money is excess of $29,457.00, including any tax administered by the City,
license or permit fee, or fee for the renewal or transfer thereof, is
collected or received by this City, it may be refunded as herein provided,
and not otherwise, if a verified claim in writing therefor is filed with the
City Clerk within 12 months after the date of payment. The claim shall be
audited in the manner provided for in the Charter and shall be made on forms
prescribed by the Controller. Such refund may be made only under the
following conditions:



 



   1.   In any of the conditions specified under Subsection (a) of
Section 22.13 of this Code;



 



   2.   Where the money paid was not required by law, or, was
erroneously or illegally collected or received by this City through mistake,
inadvertence or error of law or of fact, and whether paid or charged under
color of any provision of this Code, or otherwise.



 



   (b)   This section is remedial in purpose; its terms and
requirements shall not be deemed to limit or qualify the lawful right of any
person to bring or maintain any action or proceeding based upon the general
law of this state for any remedy provided by that law. (Added by Ord. No.
79,588, Eff. 5/21/38.)



 



   (c)   The monetary limitations in Subsection (a) above shall be
subject to an adjustment at the beginning of each fiscal year after 1995-96
based upon the Consumer Price Index for all urban consumers for the Los
Angeles area published by the United States Department of Labor, Bureau of
Labor Statistics.  The Controller shall calculate the adjustment in
accordance with the methodology used to calculate monetary limits for intra
departmental fund transfers pursuant to Los Angeles City Charter Section
343(c) and shall notify department heads in writing of the adjusted monetary
limit. (Amended by Ord. No. 173,304, Eff. 6/30/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)



 



 



SEC. 22.13.  REFUNDS OF TAX, LICENSE, PERMIT OR APPLICATION FEES BY HEADS OF
DEPARTMENTS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 173, 587, Eff. 12/7/00.)



 



   (a)   The head of any department or office in which there is
collected or received for and on behalf of the City any tax administered by
the City, license fee, permit fee or application fee may, upon written
application of the person who paid such tax or fee, filed with such
department or office, refund all or part of such payment as herein provided,
and not otherwise, without the necessity of first receiving the approval of
the City Council therefor, if such refund does not exceed the sum of
$29,457.00, and if the head of such department or office is satisfied, upon
such proof as may be presented to or required by him or her, that any of the
following conditions exist: (First Sentence Amended by Ord. No. 174,174, Eff.
9/21/01.)



 



   1.   Where a refund is specifically authorized by the provision of
law requiring payment of the tax, license, permit or application fee.



 



   2.   Where the money is paid to secure a business tax registration
certificate, license or permit not required by law.



 



   3.   Where the amount paid was in excess of the amount required by
law.



 



   4.   Where the money paid was not required by law.



 



   5.   Where the applicant for any business tax registration
certificate, license or permit has not, at any time after the commencement of
the period or term during which the requested certificate, license or permit
would have been effective, commenced or engaged in the business or
occupation, or performed any act, for which the certificate, license or
permit was required; or where a person has filed an application or appeal and
subsequently has withdrawn said application or appeal; provided, however,
that the City has not made any physical inspection or examination of real
property, held or conducted any hearing, performed any tests, or done any
similar work, whether required or contemplated by law or not, as a result of
the filing or issuance of any of the foregoing; and, provided further, that
the certificate, license, or permit, if the same has in fact been issued,
must be surrendered for cancellation and a written request for such
cancellation must be filed with the department of the City issuing the same
on or before the date of refund. In case of refunds made under this
condition, 20 percent of the amount paid shall be deducted and retained by
the City to cover clerical and other overhead costs and expenses entailed in
the transaction.



 



   (b)   The provisions of this section shall not relieve any person
from compliance with the provisions of Section 350 of the Charter relating to
the presentation of claims prior to the bringing of a suit or action thereon,
or be deemed to limit or qualify the lawful right of any person to bring or
maintain any action or proceeding based upon the general law of this state
for any remedy provided by that law. (Amended by Ord. No. 173,304, Eff.
6/30/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)



 



   (c)   The head of any department or office making any refund of
taxes or fees hereunder is hereby authorized to cause a demand to be drawn on
the general fund or such other fund in which such tax, license, permit or
application fee may have been deposited.  (Amended by Ord. No. 174,174, Eff.
9/21/01.)



 



   (d)   The head of any department or office, authorizing any refund
of taxes or fees hereunder, shall cause a detailed report thereof to be made,
showing the names and addresses of the persons receiving such refunds, the
amounts thereof, the kinds of taxes or fees refunded, and the reasons why
said refunds were made.  Such report shall be transmitted to the Council and
the Controller at such times as the Council may require, but not less
frequently than annually.  (Amended by Ord. No. 174,174, Eff. 9/21/01.)



 



   (e)   The monetary limitations in Subsection (a) above shall be
subject to an adjustment at the beginning of each fiscal year after 1995-96
based upon the Consumer Price Index for all urban consumers for the Los
Angeles area published by the United States Department of Labor, Bureau of
Labor Statistics.  The Controller shall calculate the adjustment in
accordance with the methodology used to calculate monetary limits for intra
departmental fund transfers pursuant to Los Angeles City Charter Section
343(c) and shall notify department heads in writing of the adjusted monetary
limit.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,304, Eff. 6/30/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)



 



 



 



ARTICLE 6
BICYCLES AND VEHICLES



 



 



Section



26.31   Repossessor of Property – False Personation of Police –
Prohibited.



 



 



SEC. 26.01.  BICYCLES – LICENSES.



   (Repealed by Ord. No. 180,743, Eff. 7/25/09.)



 



 



SEC. 26.31.  REPOSSESSOR OF PROPERTY – FALSE PERSONATION OF POLICE –
PROHIBITED.



 



   It shall be unlawful for any person, when making or attempting to make
any repossession of any motor vehicle or any other personal property, to
represent himself as a policeman, or a member of the Police Department of
this City, or to be connected with the Department, whether expressly or by
implication, or by the use of display of any emblem, badge, insignia or
uniform calculated to indicate that the wearer is a policeman, or a member of
the Police Department, or connected therewith in any way.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 8
ADVERTISING



 



 



Section



28.00   Definitions.



28.01   Handbills – Distribution.



28.01.1   Hand-bills and Tip Sheets – Distribution.



28.02   Hand-bills – Permission Premises.



28.03   Hand-bills, Signs – Buildings Permission.



28.04   Hand-bills, Signs – Public Places and Objects.



28.05   Hand-bills, Signs – Beach or Tideland of City – Exception.



28.08   Hand-bills – Name and Address of Distributor.



28.09   Advertising – Goods as Dealers – Exception.



28.10   Balloon – Use for Advertising.



28.11   Captive Balloons and Similar Devices.



28.12   Airplanes – Loud Speakers On.



28.13   Animals – Use for Advertising.



28.15   Signs – Liquor Establishments.



28.16   Signs – Gasoline Prices – Posting.



28.16.1   Signs – Gasoline Sales – Volume.



28.17   Signs – Gasoline Prices – Uniformity.



28.20   Advertising – Kosher Meat Products.



 



 



SEC. 28.00.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   For the purpose of this article the following words and phrases are
defined, and shall be construed as hereinafter set out, unless it shall be
apparent from the context that they have a different meaning.



 



   “Hand-bill” shall mean any hand-bill, dodger, commercial
advertising circular, folder, booklet, letter, card, pamphlet, sheet, poster,
sticker, banner, notice or other written, printed or painted matter
calculated to attract attention of the public.



 



   “Tip Sheet” shall mean any written or printed form, chart, sheet or
card giving or purporting to give any list or probable list of entries of any
horse race or other contest and having in connection therewith any tip,
information, prediction, selection, key or cipher, indicating the probable
winner or loser, or the result or probable result, of such race or contest,
or the actual or probable state of the wagering or betting upon or against
any horse or other contestant in such list.



 



 



SEC. 28.01.  HANDBILLS – DISTRIBUTION.



   (Amended by Ord. 168,321, Eff. 12/13/92.)



 



   (a)   No person shall distribute or cause or direct the distribution
of any handbill to passengers on any streetcar or throw, place or attach any
handbill to or upon any vehicle.



 



   (b)   For the purposes of this section, there shall be a presumption
that the business, commercial activity or person whose name appears on any
handbill so thrown, placed or attached, threw, placed or attached such
handbill, or caused or directed that such handbill be thrown, placed or
attached to or upon any vehicle.  Said business, commercial activity or
person may rebut the foregoing presumption by the presentation of competent
evidence that it, him or her did not cause or direct that any handbill be
thrown, placed or attached to or upon any vehicle.  In lieu of the use of
this presumption, criminal liability may be established by direct evidence
that the business, commercial activity or person whose name appears on the
handbill caused or directed that such handbill be thrown, placed or attached
to or upon any vehicle.



 



   The freedom of press guaranteed by the First Amendment of the Federal
Constitution, and made applicable to the states by the Fourteenth Amendment
has no application to the distribution of hand-bills on the streets for
purely commercial advertising.



   Valentine v. Chrestensen, 316 U. S. 52, 54; 86 L. Ed. 1262.



   Jamison v. Texas, 318 U. S. 413, 417; 87 L. Ed. 869.



   Murdock v. Pennsylvania, 319 U. S. 105, 108; 87 L. Ed. 1292; 146 A. L.
R.



 



   The rule as regards purely commercial advertising is the same under
Article 1, Section 9 of the California Constitution.



   In re Porterfield, 28 Cal. 2d 91,101; 167 A. L. R. 675.



 



   A City ordinance making it unlawful to deposit advertising matter in or
on motor vehicles parked on streets does not violate the constitutional
guaranties of freedom of speech and of the press, and does not constitute an
arbitrary and unreasonable restraint on the conduct of a lawful business.



   People v. Uffindell 90 Cal. App. 2d Supp. 881. (ordinance reading “it
shall be unlawful to deposit . . . in or on any motor vehicle parked on any
street in the City of San Diego . . . any . . . advertising matter.”)



 



 



SEC. 28.01.1.  HAND-BILLS AND TIP SHEETS – DISTRIBUTION.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 159,222, Eff. 9/3/84.)



 



   (a)   No person shall sell to, or distribute among, pedestrians, or
persons in vehicles, any tip sheet, on any street or sidewalk, or in any park.



 



   (b)   No person shall cast, throw or deposit any tip sheet or
hand-bill onto any street, sidewalk or park.



 



   (c)   No person shall distribute any hand-bill on public property:



 



   (1)   on the roadway, center divider or median of a street;



 



   (2)   to any person in an unparked vehicle;



 



   (3)   within ten feet of an entrance to a building;



 



   (4)   within ten feet of a marked or unmarked crosswalk;



 



   (5)   along or within ten feet of a construction fence; or



 



   (6)   on any portion of a driveway.



 



   (d)   No person who distributes any hand-bill on a public sidewalk
or in a public park shall neglect to remove any hand-bill which is
distributed by that person or another person also distributing copies of the
same hand-bill, which hand-bill is then thrown, cast or deposited on the
ground by another person within one hundred feet from the location of the
particular distribution by said person.



 



 



SEC. 28.02.  HAND-BILLS – PERMISSION PREMISES.



 



   No person shall distribute, deposit, throw, place or attach any
hand-bill to, in or upon any porch, yard, steps or mail-box located upon any
premises not in the possession of or under the control of the person
distributing the said hand-bill, which premises has posted thereon in a
conspicuous place, a sign of at least twelve inches in area bearing the
works, “No Advertising,” unless the person distributing the hand-bills
has first received the written permission of the person occupying or having
possession of such premises authorizing him so to do.



 



   Advertising is a lawful occupation and as such is a property right
secured by the constitutional guarantees against deprivation of property
without due process of law, however such occupation may be regulated by
forbidding its distribution in places where it might result in the littering
of public places.



   People v. St. John, 108 Cal. App. 779.



 



   The ordinance may lawfully prohibit the acts described therein.



   People v. Lockett, CR A 1145.



 



 



SEC. 28.03.  HAND-BILLS, SIGNS – BUILDINGS PERMISSION.



 



   No person shall paint, mark or write on or post or otherwise affix or
attach any hand-bill or sign to or upon any building, wall or part thereof,
or upon any private property without the consent of the owner, agent or
occupant thereof.



 



 



SEC. 28.04.  HAND-BILLS, SIGNS – PUBLIC PLACES AND OBJECTS.



 



   (a)   No person shall paint, mark or write on, or post or otherwise
affix, any hand-bill or sign to or upon any sidewalk, crosswalk, curb,
curbstone, street lamp post, hydrant, tree, shrub, tree stake or guard,
railroad trestle, electric light or power or telephone or telegraph or
trolley wire pole, or wire appurtenant thereof or upon any fixture of the
fire alarm or police telegraph system or upon any lighting system, public
bridge, drinking fountain, life buoy, life preserver, life boat, or other
life saving equipment, street sign or traffic sign.



 



   The prohibition of the ordinance applies to telephone poles owned by
public utilities as well as poles owned by some political entity, and is a
valid exercise of the police power.



   People v. Kaplan, CR A 1623.



 



   (b)   Nothing in this section contained shall apply to the
installation of terrazo sidewalks or sidewalks of similar construction,
sidewalks permanently colored by an admixture in the material of which the
same are constructed, and for which the Board of Public Works has granted a
written permit.



 



   (c)   Removal of Signs – Costs and Penalties.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 180,998, Eff. 1/4/10.)



 



   (1)   Any hand-bill or sign found posted or otherwise affixed upon
any public or utility property contrary to the provisions of this section may
be removed by any company, utility, organization, or individual owning or
responsible for maintaining that property, the Police Department or the
Department of Public Works.  The person responsible for any such illegal
posting shall be liable for an administrative penalty and for the cost
incurred in the removal thereof, and the Department of Public Works is
authorized to effect the collection of said administrative penalty and costs
incurred by the City of Los Angeles.  The first violation of Subsection (a)
in a calendar year is subject to an administrative monetary penalty not to
exceed $100.00.  Subsequent violations in the same calendar year will result
in a second penalty not to exceed $250.00.  The penalty for the third
administrative violation in a calendar year is $500.00.  More than three
administrative fines in one calendar year shall result in the violation being
charged as a misdemeanor in Superior Court and subject to all penalties
applicable to criminal violations.  The Bureau of Street Services is
authorized assess a processing fee established by the Board of Public Works,
subject to the approval of the City Council for all citations with an
administrative monetary penalty.



 



   (2)   For purposes of this subsection, there shall be a presumption
that:



 



   (i)   the real estate agent, broker, brokerage firm or other person
whose name or telephone number appears on the hand-bill or sign is the person
responsible for posting a hand-bill or sign advertising property for sale,
lease or rent;



 



   (ii)   the candidate seeking office is the person responsible for
posting a hand-bill or sign promoting the candidate for public office;



 



   (iii)   the owner, or lessee if the property is leased, of property
used for a yard or garage sale is the person responsible for posting a
hand-bill or sign advertising a yard or garage sale;



 



   (iv)   the owner, or lessee if the property is leased, of property
used for a commercial activity or event is the person responsible for posting
a hand-bill or sign advertising the subject commercial activity or event;



 



   (v)   the person whose name, telephone number or address appears as
the sponsor for a sporting event, concert, theatrical performance, or similar
activity or event is the person responsible for posting a hand-bill or sign
advertising the subject activity or event; and;



 



   (vi)   the person whose name, telephone number or address appears as
the person to contact on any hand-bill or sign posted is the person
responsible for having posted the same.



 



   For purposes of this subsection, the person presumed to be responsible
for posting a hand-bill or sign on public or utility property may rebut such
presumption by declaring under penalty of perjury or swearing under oath that
the person did not cause, authorize, allow or permit the posting of the
hand-bill or sign on public or utility property.




   (3)   With the concurrence of the City Administrative Officer, the
Board of Public Works shall determine the verifiable costs to the City of Los
Angeles incurred in removing hand-bills and signs pursuant to this section. 
Such costs shall include, but not be limited to, direct labor, material and
equipment costs, as well as departmental and general City overhead costs
attributable to the removal of signs.  Prior to the beginning of each fiscal
year, the Board shall adopt a schedule of charges which persons responsible
for the illegal posting of hand-bills and signs are required to pay pursuant
to this subsection, based on those costs.  The schedule of charges shall be
subject to approval by the City Council.



 



   (4)   All administrative penalties collected pursuant to this
section shall be used for enforcement activities by the Bureau of Street
Services, Investigation and Enforcement Division.



 



   (5)   Persons billed for the costs and penalties of removing
hand-bills or signs may appeal such costs and charges to the Board of Public
Works in accordance with rules adopted by the Board.



 



   (d)   Nothing in this section shall apply to the installation of a
metal plaque or plate or individual letters or figures in a sidewalk
commemorating an historical, cultural, or artistic event, location or
personality for which the Board of Public Works, with the approval of the
City Council, has granted a written permit. (Amended by Ord. No. 109,896,
Eff. 9/28/57.)



 



   (e)   Nothing in this section shall apply to the painting of house
numbers upon curbs done under permits issued by the Board of Public Works
under and in accordance with the provisions of Section 62.96 of this Code.
(Added by Ord. No. 122,905, Eff. 10/26/62.)



 



   (f)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the installation of
signs on street lighting posts provided the sign is a part of a program
sponsored by a City Department having specific responsibility for public
safety and such signs and locations are approved by the Department of Public
Works and are installed and maintained as authorized in Section 80.07 of this
Code. Any fees previously paid for such installation shall be refunded upon
application to the Department of Transportation for such refund by the person
or persons who made the payment to the City. Such person or persons shall
declare under penalty of perjury that any money received by he, she, or them,
shall, in turn, be paid to those persons who provided funds to the applicant
to make such payment to the City and further that if the applicant is not
able, for any reason, to make such reimbursement to any such person, the
applicant, shall return, within 60 days said respective sum to the City.
(Amended by Ord. No. 158,469, Eff. 12/23/83.)



 



   (g)   (Added by Ord. No. 173,343, Eff. 7/15/00.)  Nothing in this
section shall prohibit the installation of signs on street lighting posts
relating to the operation of the street lighting system.



 



 



SEC. 28.05.  HAND-BILLS, SIGNS – BEACH OR TIDELAND OF CITY – EXCEPTION.



 



   No person shall paint, mark or write on or post, or otherwise affix or
attach any hand-bill or sign to or on any land belonging to this City
fronting on the Pacific Ocean or upon any tideland or submerged lands granted
to this City by the State or heretofore or hereafter acquired by this City by
annexation or consolidation.



 



   Provided, however, that nothing in this section contained shall be
deemed or construed to prohibit any person lawfully occupying any portion of
any tideland or submerged land by virtue of any lease or permit from placing
upon such portion thereof advertising or advertisements pertaining
exclusively to the business conducted or maintained upon such portion thereof
pursuant to said lease or permit.



 



 



SEC. 28.08.  HAND-BILLS – NAME AND ADDRESS OF DISTRIBUTOR.



 



   It shall be unlawful for any person to post or otherwise affix on
public property, or distribute in any public place any hand-bills, placard,
poster, pamphlet, or other printed matter that does not bear upon the face
thereof the name and address of the person who caused the same to be
distributed. This section does not in any way affect the provisions of
Section 28.01.1 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.



 



 



SEC. 28.09.  ADVERTISING – GOODS AS DEALERS – EXCEPTION.



 



   No person engaged in the business of selling goods, wares or
merchandise shall advertise the sale of said goods, wares or merchandise, or
any part thereof, in any newspaper, periodical, magazine or in or upon any
advertising medium unless it shall be stated in the advertisement of the sale
of said goods, wares or merchandise, clearly and unequivocally that said
person, advertising the sale of said goods, wares or merchandise, is a dealer
of the same, or unless it is stated in said advertisement that said person,
is engaged in the business of selling said goods, wares or merchandise or
unless the word “dealer” is used conspicuously in said advertisement;
provided, however, that the advertisement of the sale of any goods, wares or
merchandise in any advertising medium, in such form or with such display as
to prices, quality and description of said goods, wares or merchandise and
the character of the business engaged in as to make it plainly apparent that
such person thus advertising the sale of said goods, wares or merchandise, is
actually engaged in such sale as a business, shall be deemed a sufficient
compliance with the terms of this section.



 



 



SEC. 28.10.  BALLOON – USE FOR ADVERTISING.



 



   No person shall release or allow the release of any free balloon, toy
balloon or any group of the same which has attached thereto any substance,
matter or material used, designated or intended for any advertising purpose.



 



 



SEC. 28.11.  CAPTIVE BALLOONS AND SIMILAR DEVICES.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,944, Eff. 6/18/01.)



 



   It shall be unlawful to permit a balloon or similar device which floats
in the air and is restrained, attached or held in place by a cord, rope,
cable or similar means, to float, ascend, rise or remain aloft at a vertical
height of five feet or more above the surface of the ground measured to the
highest point of the balloon or similar device.



 



 



SEC. 28.12.  AIRPLANES – LOUD SPEAKERS ON.



 



   No person, while flying any type of aircraft over this City, shall
operate thereon any loud speaker, siren or other device, except the unmuffled
exhaust of each aircraft, which makes any noise or sound sufficiently loud to
attract attention of persons on the ground; provided that the Board of Police
Commissioners may issue a temporary permit for a period of time not to exceed
twenty-four hours to persons to operate a loud speaker, siren or other noise
making device on aircraft, if the Board determines that such operation may be
necessary in connection with any important celebration in this City.



 



 



SEC. 28.13.  ANIMALS – USE FOR ADVERTISING.



 



   No person shall lead, ride or drive upon any street or sidewalk any
animal upon which is carried or to which is attached any advertising banner,
flag, board, placard, sign, transparency or other device commanding,
announcing, publishing or calling attention to any goods, wares or
merchandise or any place of business or entertainment or any business,
occupation, show, exhibition, entertainment or event.



 



 



SEC. 28.15.  SIGNS – LIQUOR ESTABLISHMENTS.



 



   (a)   No person shall place, maintain, suspend, affix or attach any
banner, flag, marquee, canopy or awning bearing any words or figures
referring in any manner to any malt, vinous, fermented or spiritous liquors
to or upon any building or premises occupied by any place of business where
food is served or prepared for consumption on the premises where malt,
vinous, fermented or spiritous liquor or any admixture thereof is sold,
offered for sale, and served and consumed on said premises.



 



   Provided that signs, other than banners, flags, marquees, canopies or
awnings, referring to malt, vinous, fermented or spiritous liquor may be
placed or attached to or on the front, sides or back of any such building or
premises, providing that no area of the building upon which such sign is
maintained abuts or faces property used for residential purposes, and further
provided that no such sign shall be affixed, attached or painted so as to
conceal or obstruct the clear view through the doorway or windows of any such
premises occupied as aforesaid.



 



   (b)   No person shall place, maintain, affix or attach on, in, over
or upon any window on any premises or building mentioned in this section, any
substance which in any way obstructs the clear vision or view through any
door or window of the interior of such place from the exterior thereof above
a line parallel to the lower sill thereof and distant four feet from the
highest point of the surface of the sidewalk adjacent to and immediately in
front in such building and premises. Provided that the provisions of this
subsection shall not apply to any bona fide permanently constructed window
display, shelving or housing which does not substantially obstruct the clear
vision or view through any such window of the interior of such place from the
exterior thereof.



 



   The provisions of this subsection with respect to obscuring windows at
places where alcoholic beverages are sold may not be enforceable, as it had
been held that a municipality may not by ordinance prohibit maintenance of a
public eating place where alcoholic beverages are served because it had a
window so obscured that one may not look into said place from the street.
Such matters are exclusively within the jurisdiction of the State Board of
Equalization.



   People v. Fine, CR AP 2521



   Citing: People v. Leaf, CR AP 2337; People v. Steponovich, CR AP 2183;
ART. XX, Sec. 22, Constitution of the State of California.



 



 



SEC. 28.16.  SIGNS – GASOLINE PRICES – POSTING.



   (Added by Ord. No. 145,634, Eff. 3/8/74.)



 



   (a)   Every person, firm, partnership, association, trustee or
corporation which owns, operates, manages, leases or rents a gasoline service
station or other facility offered for sale, selling or otherwise dispensing
gasoline or other motor vehicle fuel to the public from such a facility
abutting or adjacent to a street or highway shall post or cause to be posted
or displayed and maintain at said premises at least one sign, banner or other
advertising medium which is clearly visible from all traffic lanes in each
direction on such street or highway.



 



   Each said sign, banner or advertising medium shall be readable from
said traffic lanes and shall indicate thereon the actual price per gallon,
including all taxes, at which each grade of gasoline or other motor vehicle
fuel is currently being offered for sale, sold or otherwise dispensed, if at
all, at said facility on said date.



 



   (b)   No person, firm, partnership, association, trustee or
corporation which owns, operates, manages, leases or rents a gasoline service
station or other facility offered for sale, selling or otherwise dispensing
gasoline or other motor vehicle fuel to the public shall advertise, either in
connection with any signs, banners or other advertising medium utilized to
satisfy the requirements of this section or otherwise, the price of any grade
of gasoline or other motor vehicle fuel which is not immediately available to
be sold or dispensed to the public at said premises.



 



   (c)   Each sign, banner or other advertising medium posted,
displayed or maintained pursuant to the requirements of this section shall
not be inconsistent with the provisions of Article 8, Chapter 7 of Division 8
(Sections 20880 et seq.) of the State of California Business and Professions
Code.



 



 



SEC. 28.16.1.  SIGNS – GASOLINE SALES – VOLUME.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 152,387, Eff. 5/17/79.)



 



   (a)   Every person, firm, partnership, association, trustee, or
corporation which owns, operates, manages, leases or rents a gasoline service
station or other facility offering for sale, selling, or otherwise dispensing
gasoline or other motor vehicle fuel to the public from such a facility
abutting or adjacent to a street or highway shall post, or cause to be posted
or displayed, and maintain and shall keep current at the premises from which
said retailer offers sale, sells or otherwise dispenses gasoline or other
motor vehicle fuel, at least one sign, banner or other advertising medium
which is clearly visible from all traffic lanes in each direction on such
street or highway.



 



   Each said sign, banner or other advertising medium shall be readable
from said traffic lanes and shall accurately indicate thereon the minimum and
maximum limits, if any, of gasoline or other motor vehicle fuel which will be
sold thereat to any one purchaser at any one time for use in a motor vehicle
and shall further set forth the hours and days said service facility will be
open to the public for said purposes.



 



   No changes in such availability of gasoline or other motor vehicle fuel
shall be made with respect to the hours or days the facility will be open as
above provided, or as to maximum or minimum limits or amounts to be sold,
without such change or changes being first shown on such posted sign, banner
or advertising medium.



 



   (b)   Each sign, banner or other advertising medium posted,
displayed or maintained pursuant to requirements of this section shall not be
inconsistent with the provisions of Article 8 of Chapter 7 of Division 8
(Sections 20880, et seq.) of the State of California Business and Professions
Code.



 



 



SEC. 28.17.  SIGNS – GASOLINE PRICES – UNIFORMITY.



 



   No person shall keep, maintain or display on the premises of any motor
vehicle service station, motor vehicle garage, gasoline service station or
filling station, any sign, banner, streamer or card, or other advertising
medium indicating or showing the price of gasoline or other motor vehicle
fuel sold, offered for sale or advertised for sale, unless the price per
gallon, including all taxes, is quoted or shown on the sign, banner,
streamer, card or other advertising medium, together with the brand name or
trade name of such gasoline or other motor vehicle fuel sold, offered for
sale or advertised for sale, from such premises, provided, that if the
gasoline or other motor vehicle fuel sold, offered for sale or advertised for
sale is not sold under any trade name or brand name, then the same must be
designated as “No Brand.”



 



   Each and all letters, words, figures, numerals used, placed or
indicated on any such sign, banner, streamer, or other advertising medium
shall be uniform in size, provided that the provisions of this section shall
not apply to signs required to be placed on pumps or other gasoline or motor
vehicle fuel dispensing apparatus referred to in Section 28.16.



 



 



SEC. 28.20.  ADVERTISING – KOSHER MEAT PRODUCTS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 86,898.)



 



   (a)   Definitions:



 



   1.   Kosher:  this term is used herein as defined in Section 383b
of the Penal Code of California;



 



   2.   Kosher Shop:  any place of business where meat, meat products
or any foodstuffs are sold, and where, or in connection with which, the word
“Kosher” in English or any other language or any word or expression of
similar import or effect, or any six pointed star, or any other
advertisement, token, symbol or representation calculated to indicate that
Kosher products are sold therein, is used or displayed; any place of business
where oral representations are made, expressly or by implication or
insinuation, that Kosher products are there handled; and any place of
business advertised as handling Kosher products, or advertised in a manner
calculated to indicate that Kosher products are there available.



 



   (b)   Sale of Non-Kosher Products Prohibited – When.  It shall be
a misdemeanor for any person who operates any Kosher shop to sell, offer for
sale, or display therein any non-Kosher meat, meat products or food products
containing meat, unless all such non-Kosher articles are kept in one or more
display cases, vessels or containers which are physically separated from
those containing Kosher articles, and which are clearly marked and identified
as required by Section 383b of the Penal Code.



 



   (c)   It shall be a misdemeanor for any person who operates a Kosher
shop, or who makes any sale therein, to sell any non-Kosher meat or meat
products unless at the time of such sale he informs the purchaser that the
article is not Kosher. Provided, however, that the requirement of this
subsection shall be deemed complied with if the package or wrapper enclosing
the non-Kosher article sold has affixed thereto, or printed thereon, so as to
be plainly visible to the purchaser at the time of the sale, the word
“non-Kosher” in letters of a stroke at least one inch high and at least
one-eighth of an inch wide, together with the equivalent thereof in clearly
legible English or any other language.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 9
REPOSSESSION OF MOTOR VEHICLES – PERMIT REQUIREMENTS



 



 



Section



29.02   Auto Wreckers – Notification Required.



 



 



SEC. 29.02.  AUTO WRECKERS – NOTIFICATION REQUIRED.



 



   Any Automobile Wrecker licensed by the State of California who obtains
actual possession as a transferee of a vehicle which is subject to
registration under the California Vehicle Code for the purpose of wrecking or
dismantling the vehicle shall forward, within 24 hours, notification of
acquiring such vehicle to the Records and Identification Division of the Los
Angeles Police Department on a form specified by the Los Angeles Police
Department. (Added by Ord. No. 122,360, Eff. 8/9/62.)



 



 



 



 


Disclaimer:
The information published on this website is updated periodically.
Consequently, there may be delays of up to three (3) months between the
passage of legislation and its posting. Please visit the City of Los Angeles
website at www.lacity.org to see more recently-enacted legislation.

