
Los Angeles Municipal Code


CHAPTER XII
THE WATER CONSERVATION PLAN OF THE CITY OF LOS ANGELES



 




(Title amended, Ord. No. 166,080, Eff. 7/25/90.)




 



 



   Article



 




   I   Emergency Water Conservation Plan










   II   Water Closet, Urinal and Showerhead Regulations










   III   [Reduction of Sewer Flows]










   IV   Large Turf Water Conservation Regulations










   V   Water Efficiency Requirements for New Development and Renovation
of Existing Buildings




 



 



 



ARTICLE I
EMERGENCY WATER CONSERVATION PLAN



 




(Amended in Entirety by Ord. No. 184,250, Eff. 5/3/16.)




 



 



Section



121.00   Scope and Title.



121.01   Declaration of Policy.



121.02   Declaration of Purpose.



121.03   Definitions.



121.04   Authorization.



121.05   Application.



121.06   Water Conservation Phases.



121.07   Conservation Phase Implementation.



121.08   Water Conservation Phases.



121.09   Unreasonable Use of Water.



121.10   Failure to Comply.



121.11   General Provisions.



121.12   Severability.



 



 



SEC. 121.00.  SCOPE AND TITLE.



 



   This Article shall be known as The Emergency Water Conservation Plan of
the City of Los Angeles.



 



 



SEC. 121.01.  DECLARATION OF POLICY.



 



   It is hereby declared that because of the conditions prevailing in the
City of Los Angeles and in the areas of this State and elsewhere from which
the City obtains its water supplies, the general welfare requires that the
water resources available to the City be put to the maximum beneficial use to
the extent to which they are capable, and that the waste or unreasonable use
or unreasonable method of use of water be prevented, and the conservation of
such waters is to be exercised with a view to the reasonable and beneficial
use thereof in the interests of the people of the City and for the public
welfare.



 



 



SEC. 121.02.  DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.



 



   The purpose of this Article is to provide a mandatory water
conservation plan to minimize the effect of a shortage of water to the
Customers of the City and, by means of this Article, to adopt provisions that
will significantly reduce the consumption of water over an extended period of
time, thereby extending the available water required for the Customers of the
City while reducing the hardship of the City and the general public to the
greatest extent possible, voluntary conservation efforts having proved to be
insufficient.



 



 



SEC. 121.03.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   The following words and phrases, whenever used in this Article, shall
be construed as defined in this section unless from the context a different
meaning is intended or unless a different meaning is specifically defined
within individual sections of this Article:



 



   a.   "Article" means the ordinance providing for "The Emergency
Water Conservation Plan of the City of Los Angeles."



 



   b.   "Baseline Water Usage" means the amount of water necessary for
existing landscape based on a water budget developed by the Department.



 



   c.   "Billing Unit" means the unit amount of water used to apply
water rates for purposes of calculating commodity charges for Customer water
usage and equals one hundred (100) cubic feet or seven hundred forty-eight
(748) gallons of water.



 



   d.   "City" means the City of Los Angeles.



 



   e.   "City Council" means the Council of the City of Los Angeles.



 



   f.   "Conservation Phase" means that level of mandatory water
conservation presently required from Customers pursuant to this Article.



 



   g.   "Customer" means any person, persons, association, corporation
or governmental agency supplied or entitled to be supplied with water service
by the Department.



 



   h.   "Department" means the Los Angeles Department of Water and
Power.



 



   i.   "Drip Irrigation" means an efficient and targeted form of
irrigation in which water is delivered in drops directly to the plants roots
where no emitter produces more than four (4) gallons of water per hour.



 



   j.   "Even-numbered" means street addresses ending with the
following numerals: 0 (Zero), 2 (Two), 4 (Four), 6 (Six), 8 (Eight). Street
addresses ending in 1/2 or any fraction shall conform to the permitted uses
for the last whole number in the address.



 



   k.   "Gray Water" means a Customer's second or subsequent use of
water supplied by the Department on the Customer's premises, such as the use
of laundry or bathing water for other purposes.



 



   l.   "Irrigate" means any exterior application of water, other than
for firefighting purposes, dust control, or as process water, including, but
not limited to, the watering of any vegetation whether it be natural or
planted.



 



   m.   "Large Landscape Area" means an area of vegetation at least
three acres in size supporting a business necessity or public benefit uses
such as parks, golf courses, schools and cemeteries.



 



   n.   "Mayor" means the Mayor of the City of Los Angeles.



 



   o.   "Notice to the Department" means written communication
documenting compliance with all requirements and directed to the Department.



 



   p.   "Odd-numbered" means street addresses ending with the following
numerals: 1 (One), 3 (Three), 5 (Five), 7 (Seven), 9 (Nine). Street addresses
ending in 1/2 or any fraction shall conform to the permitted uses for the
last whole number in the address.



 



   q.   "Officer" means every person designated in Section 200 of the
Los Angeles City Charter as an officer of the City of Los Angeles.



 



   r.   "Potable Water" means water supplied by the Department which is
suitable for drinking and excludes recycled water from any source.



 



   s.   "Private Golf Course" means a facility with a business license
where play is restricted to members and their guests, and does not include
personal use facilities such as backyard golf greens or courses.



 



   t.   "Process Water" means water used to manufacture, alter,
convert, clean, heat or cool a product, or the equipment used for such
purpose; water used for plant and equipment washing and for transporting of
raw materials and products; and water used for community gardens, or to grow
trees, plants, or turf for sale or installation.



 



   u.   "Recycled Water" means water which, as a result of treatment of
wastewater, is suitable for a direct beneficial use or a controlled use as
approved by the California Department of Public Health.



 



   v.   "Section" means a section of this Article unless some other
ordinance or statute is specifically mentioned.



 



   w.   "Single-Family Residential Customer" means a customer who is
currently subject to Rate Schedule A of the LADWP water rate ordinance.



 



   x.   "Single Pass Cooling Systems" means equipment where water is
circulated only once to cool equipment before being disposed.



 



   y.   "Sports Field" means a public or private facility supporting a
business necessity or public benefit use that provides turf areas as a
playing surface for individual and team sports, and does not include a
facility on a residential property.



 



   z.   "Station" means those sprinklers or other water-emitting
devices controlled by a single valve.



 



 



SEC. 121.04.  AUTHORIZATION.



 



   The various officers, boards, departments, bureaus and agencies of the
City are hereby authorized and directed to immediately implement the
applicable provisions of this Article upon the effective date hereof.



 



 



SEC. 121.05.  APPLICATION.



 



   The provisions of this Article shall apply to all Customers and
property served by the Department wherever situated, and shall also apply to
all property and facilities owned, maintained, operated or under the
jurisdiction of the various officers, boards, departments, bureaus or
agencies of the City.



 



 



SEC. 121.06.  WATER CONSERVATION PHASES.



 



   A.   No Customer of the Department shall make, cause, use or permit
the use of water from the Department for any residential, commercial,
industrial, agricultural, governmental, or any other purpose in a manner
contrary to any provision of this Article. The waste or unreasonable use of
water is prohibited.



 



   B.   For the purposes of this Article, a use of water by a tenant or
by an employee, agent, contractor or other acting on behalf of a Customer
whether with real or ostensible authority shall be imputed to the Customer.
Nothing contained in this Article shall limit the remedies available to a
Customer under law or equity for the actions of a tenant, agent, contractor
or other acting on behalf of a Customer.



 



 



SEC. 121.07.  CONSERVATION PHASE IMPLEMENTATION.



 



   A.   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Article, the
provisions of Section 121.08 A. shall take effect immediately upon the
effective date of this Article, shall be permanent, and shall not be subject
to termination pursuant to the provisions of this Article providing for the
termination of a conservation phase.



 



   B.   The Department shall monitor and evaluate the projected supply
and demand for water by its Customers monthly, and shall recommend to the
Mayor and Council by concurrent written notice the extent of the conservation
required by the Customers of the Department in order for the Department to
prudently plan for and supply water to its Customers. The Mayor shall, in
turn, independently evaluate such recommendation and notify the Council of
the Mayor's determination as to the particular phase of water conservation,
Phase II through Phase VI, that should be implemented. Thereafter, the Mayor
may, with the concurrence of the Council, order that the appropriate phase of
water conservation be implemented in accordance with the applicable
provisions of this Article. Said order shall be made by public proclamation
and shall be published one time only in a daily newspaper of general
circulation and shall become effective immediately upon such publication. The
prohibited water uses for each phase shall take effect with the first full
billing period commencing on or after the effective date of the public
proclamation by the Mayor.



 



   In the event the Mayor independently recommends to the Council a phase
of conservation different from that recommended by the Department, the Mayor
shall include detailed supporting data and the reasons for the independent
recommendation in the notification to the Council of the Mayor's
determination as to the appropriate phase of conservation to be implemented.



 



   C.   Phase Termination.



 



   1.   At such time as the Department reports an April 1 forecast of
annual Owens Valley and Mono Basin Runoff equal to or exceeding 110 percent
of normal and the Metropolitan Water District of Southern California
officially states that the sum of its Colorado River and State Water Project
supplies exceeds 100 percent of projected demand, the Mayor shall forthwith
recommend to the Council the termination of any Customer curtailment phase
then in effect. Said recommendation to terminate shall take effect upon
concurrence of the Council.



 



   2.   The provisions of Subsection C.1., above, shall not preclude
the Department on the basis of information available to it from recommending
to the Mayor the termination of a water conservation phase then in effect.
The Mayor shall forward said recommendation to the Council, and it shall take
effect upon concurrence by the Council.



 



 



SEC. 121.08.  WATER CONSERVATION PHASES.



 



   A.   PHASE I - Prohibited Uses Applicable to All Customers.



 



   1.   No Customer of the Department shall use a water hose to wash
any paved surfaces, including, but not limited to, sidewalks, walkways,
driveways and parking areas, except to alleviate immediate safety or
sanitation hazards. This section shall not apply to Department-approved
water-conserving spray cleaning devices. Use of water-pressure devices for
graffiti removal is exempt. A simple spray nozzle does not qualify as a
water-conserving spray cleaning device.



 



   2.   No Customer of the Department shall use water to clean, fill or
maintain levels in decorative fountains, ponds, lakes or similar structures
used for aesthetic purposes unless such water is part of a recirculating
system.



 



   3.   No restaurant, hotel, café, cafeteria, or other public place
where food is sold, served or offered for-sale, shall serve drinking water to
any person unless expressly requested.



 



   4.   No Customer of the Department shall permit water to leak from
any pipe or fixture on the Customer's premises. Failure or refusal to affect
a timely repair of any leak of which the Customer knows or has reason to know
shall subject said Customer to all penalties provided herein for a prohibited
use of water.



 



   5.   No Customer of the Department shall wash a vehicle with a hose
if the hose does not have a self-closing water shut-off or device attached to
it, or otherwise allow a hose to run continuously while washing a vehicle.



 



   6.   No Customer of the Department shall irrigate during periods of
rain and within 48 hours after a measurable rain event.



 



   7.   No Customer of the Department shall water or irrigate lawn,
landscape or other vegetated areas between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 4:00
p.m. During these hours, public and private golf course greens and tees and
professional Sports Fields may be irrigated in order to maintain play areas
and accommodate event schedules. Supervised testing or repairing of
irrigation systems is allowed anytime with proper signage.



 



   8.   All irrigating of landscape with potable water using spray head
sprinklers and bubblers shall be limited to no more than ten (10) minutes per
watering day per station. All irrigating of landscape with potable water
using standard rotors and multi-stream rotary heads shall be limited to no
more than fifteen (15) minutes per cycle and up to two (2) cycles per
watering day per station. Exempt from these landscape irrigation restrictions
are irrigation systems using very low-flow drip-type irrigation when no
emitter produces more than four (4) gallons of water per hour and
micro-sprinklers using less than fourteen (14) gallons per hour.



 



   9.   No Customer of the Department shall use water in a manner that
causes or allows excess or continuous water flow or runoff onto an adjoining
sidewalk, driveway, street, gutter or ditch.



 



   10.   No installation of single pass cooling systems shall be
permitted in buildings requesting new water service.



 



   11.   No installation of non-recirculating systems shall be
permitted in new conveyor car wash and new commercial laundry systems.



 



   12.   Operators of hotels and motels shall provide guests with the
option of choosing not to have towels and linens laundered daily. The hotel
or motel shall prominently display notice of this option in each bathroom
using clear and easily understood language. The Department shall make
suitable displays available.



 



   13.   No Large Landscape Areas shall have irrigation systems without
rain sensors that shut off the irrigation systems. Large Landscape Areas with
approved weather-based irrigation controllers registered with the Department
are in compliance with this requirement.



 



   B.   PHASE II.



 



   1.    Prohibited Uses Applicable to All Customers. Should Phase II
be implemented, uses applicable to Phase I of this section shall continue to
be applicable, except as specifically provided below.



 



   2.   Non-Watering Days. No landscape irrigation shall be permitted
on any day other than Monday, Wednesday or Friday for odd-numbered street
addresses, and Tuesday, Thursday or Sunday for even-numbered street
addresses. Street addresses ending in 1/2 or any fraction shall conform to
the permitted uses for the last whole number in the address. Watering times
shall be limited to:



 



   (a)   Non-conserving nozzles (spray head sprinklers and bubblers) -
no more than eight (8) minutes per watering day per station for a total of 24
minutes per week.



 



   (b)   Conserving nozzles (standard rotors and multi-stream rotary
heads) - no more than fifteen (15) minutes per cycle and up to two (2) cycles
per watering day per station for a total of 90 minutes per week.



 



(With the above watering times, water consumption used for both types of
nozzles is essentially equal.)



 



   3.   Upon written Notice to the Department, irrigation of Sports
Fields may deviate from the non-watering days to maintain play areas and
accommodate event schedules; however, to be eligible for this means of
compliance, a Customer must reduce their overall monthly water use by the
Department's Board of Water and Power Commissioners (Board)-adopted degree of
shortage plus an additional five percent from the Customer Baseline Water
Usage within 30 days.



 



   4.   Upon written Notice to the Department, Large Landscape Areas
may deviate from the non-watering days by meeting the following requirements:
1) must have approved weather-based irrigation controllers registered with
the Department (eligible weather-based irrigation controllers are those
approved by the Metropolitan Water District of Southern California or the
Irrigation Association Smart Water Application Technologies [SWAT]
initiative); 2) must reduce overall monthly water use by the Department's
Board-adopted degree of shortage plus an additional five percent from the
Customer Baseline Water Usage within 30 days; and 3) must use recycled water
if it is available from the Department.



 



   5.   These provisions do not apply to drip irrigation supplying
water to a food source or to hand-held hose watering of vegetation, if the
hose is equipped with a self-closing water shut-off device, which is allowed
everyday during Phase II except between the hours of 9:00 am and 4:00 pm.



 



   C.   PHASE III.



 



   1.    Prohibited Uses Applicable to All Customers. Should Phase III
be implemented, uses applicable to Phases I and II of this section shall
continue to be applicable, except as specifically provided below.



 



   2.   Non-Watering Days. No landscape irrigation shall be permitted
on any day other than Monday or Friday for odd-numbered street addresses, and
Sunday or Thursday for even-numbered street addresses. Street addresses
ending in 1/2 or any fraction shall conform to the permitted uses for the
last whole number in the address. Watering times shall be limited to:



 



   (a)   Non-conserving nozzles (spray head sprinklers and bubblers) -
no more than eight (8) minutes per watering day per station for a total of 16
minutes per week.



 



   (b)   Conserving nozzles (standard rotors and multi-stream rotary
heads) - no more than fifteen (15) minutes per cycle and up to two (2) cycles
per watering day per station for a total of 60 minutes per week.



 



(With the above watering times, water consumption used for both types of
nozzles is essentially equal.)



 



   3.   Recommend use of pool covers to decrease water loss from
evaporation.



 



   4.   Recommend washing of vehicles at commercial car wash facilities.



 



   5.   Upon written Notice to the Department, irrigation of Sports
Fields may deviate from the non-watering days to maintain play areas and
accommodate event schedules; however, to be eligible for this means of
compliance, a Customer must reduce their overall monthly water use by the
Department's Board-adopted degree of shortage plus an additional five percent
from the Customer Baseline Water Usage within 30 days.



 



   6.   Upon written Notice to the Department, Large Landscape Areas
may deviate from the non-watering days by meeting the following requirements:
1) must have approved weather-based irrigation controllers registered with
the Department (eligible weather-based irrigation controllers are those
approved by the Metropolitan Water District of Southern California or the
Irrigation Association Smart Water Application Technologies [SWAT]
initiative); 2) must reduce overall monthly water use by the Department's
Board-adopted degree of shortage plus an additional five percent from the
Customer Baseline Water Usage within 30 days; and 3) must use recycled water
if it is available from the Department.



 



   7.   These provisions do not apply to drip irrigation supplying
water to a food source or to hand-held hose watering of vegetation, if the
hose is equipped with a self-closing water shut-off device, which is allowed
every day during Phase III except between the hours of 9:00 am and 4:00 pm.



 



   D.   PHASE IV.



 



   1.   Prohibited Uses Applicable to All Customers. Should Phase IV be
implemented, uses applicable to Phase I, II, and III of this Section shall
continue to be applicable, except as specifically provided below.



 



   2.   Non-Watering Days. No landscape irrigation shall be permitted
on any day other than Monday for odd-numbered street addresses and Tuesday
for even-numbered street addresses. Street addresses ending in 1/2 or any
fraction shall conform to the permitted uses for the last whole number in the
address. Watering times shall be limited to:



 



   (a)   Non-conserving nozzles (spray head sprinklers and bubblers) -
no more than eight (8) minutes per watering day per station for a total of 8
minutes per week.



 



   (b)   Conserving nozzles (standard rotors and multi-stream rotary
heads) - no more than fifteen (15) minutes per cycle and up to two (2) cycles
per watering day per station for a total of 30 minutes per week.



 



   3.   Mandate use of pool covers on all residential swimming pools
when not in use.



 



   4.   No washing of vehicles allowed except at commercial car wash
facilities.



 



   5.   No filling of decorative fountains, ponds, lakes, or similar
structures used for aesthetic purposes, with potable water.



 



   6.   Upon written Notice to the Department, irrigation of Sports
Fields may deviate from the specific non-watering days. To be eligible for
this means of compliance, a Customer must reduce overall monthly water use by
the Department's Board-adopted degree of shortage plus an additional ten
percent from the Customer Baseline Water Usage within 30 days.



 



   7.   Upon written Notice to the Department, Large Landscape Areas
may deviate from the specific non-watering days by meeting the following
requirements: 1) must have approved weather-based irrigation controllers
registered with the Department (eligible weather-based irrigation controllers
are those approved by the Metropolitan Water District of Southern California
or the Irrigation Association Smart Water Application Technologies [SWAT]
initiative); 2) must reduce overall monthly water use by the Department's
Board-adopted degree of shortage plus an additional ten percent from the
Customer Baseline Water Usage within 30 days; and 3) must use recycled water
if it is available from the Department.



 



   8.   These provisions do not apply to drip irrigation supplying
water to a food source or to hand-held hose watering of vegetation, if the
hose is equipped with a self-closing water shut-off device, which is allowed
everyday during Phase IV except between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m.



 



   E.    PHASE V.



 



   1.   Prohibited Uses Applicable to All Customers. Should Phase V be
implemented, uses applicable to Phases I, II, III and IV of this section
shall continue to be applicable, except as specifically provided below.



 



   2.   Non-Watering Days. No landscape irrigation allowed.



 



   3.   No filling of residential swimming pools and spas with potable
water.



 



   4.   Upon written notice to the Department, golf courses and
professional Sports Fields may apply water to sensitive areas, such as greens
and tees, during non-daylight hours and only to the extent necessary to
maintain minimum levels of biological viability.



 



   F.   PHASE VI.



 



   1.   Prohibited Uses Applicable to All Customers. Phases I, II, III,
IV and V of Section 121.08 shall continue to remain in effect.



 



   2.   Additional Prohibited Uses. The Board is hereby authorized to
implement additional prohibited uses of water based on the water supply
situation. Any additional prohibition shall be published at least once in a
daily newspaper of general circulation and shall become effective immediately
upon such publication and shall remain in effect until cancelled.



 



   3.   Penalty Authority. The Board is hereby authorized to establish
appropriate penalties for this phase.



 



   G.   Exception. The prohibited uses of water provided for by
Subsections A., B., C., D., E. and F. of this section are not applicable to
the uses of water necessary for public health and safety, or for essential
government services such as police, fire and other similar emergency services.



 



   H.   Variance. If, due to unique circumstances, a specific
requirement of this Section would result in undue hardship to a Customer
using water or to property upon which water is used, that is disproportionate
to the impacts to water users generally or to similar property or classes of
water uses, then the Customer may apply for a variance from the requirements.
Unique circumstances include, but are not limited to, physical disabilities
which prevent compliance with the Water Conservation Plan. The Department
shall adopt procedures for variance applications, review and decision.



 



 



SEC. 121.09.  UNREASONABLE USE OF WATER



 



   It shall be unlawful for any Customer to waste, or engage in the
unreasonable use of water. If any Single Family Residential Customer enters
the Department's highest rate tier during Phase II-VI, that Customer may be
subject to a Water Use Analysis performed by the Department. Department will
use available resources, including, but not limited to, water consumption
history, land use data, and aerial photographs, to analyze the reasonableness
of a Customer's water use.



 



   A.   Notification. Department may issue a notification to a Customer
requesting access to the property for purposes of completing a Water Use
Analysis. Within thirty (30) days following written notification by the
Department, to the Customer's billing address, the Customer shall provide the
Department reasonable access to the property for purposes of completing a
Water Use Analysis and for verifying compliance with any existing Customer
Conservation Plan.



 



   B.   Cooperation. Customer, or his designated representative, shall
be present and fully cooperate with the Department in the Water Use Analysis,
including, but not limited to, providing water use information relating to
landscaping, agriculture, fixtures, ponds, cooling towers and other water
features and uses located on the property.



 



   C.   Customer Conservation Plan. Upon completion of the Water Use
Analysis, Department may prepare a Customer Conservation Plan that includes
an evaluation of all water uses on the property, directions to reduce waste
and unreasonable use of water, and a water budget based on the reasonable use
of water on the property. Department will discuss with the Customer the
findings of the Water Use Analysis and explain the Customer Conservation Plan.



 



   D.   The Department shall adopt criteria and process for
implementing the Water Use Analysis. When possible the Department will use
approved industry standards and methodologies to calculate indoor and outdoor
water use.



 



   E.   Customer shall comply with all terms of the Department's
Customer Conservation Plan, including any water budget provided by
Department, and failure to comply shall be deemed an unreasonable use of
water that is a threat to public health, safety and welfare and is deemed a
nuisance pursuant to Government Code § 38771.



 



   F.   Violation. Customer failure to (1) provide reasonable access to
property following notice, (2) cooperate with Department in the development
of a Customer Conservation Plan, or (3) comply with Customer Conservation
Plan shall be deemed a new violation of this section, and shall be noticed by
the Department by written citation. Violation of this section shall subject
Customer to penalties as described in Section 121.10 A.3.



 



 



SEC. 121.10.  FAILURE TO COMPLY.



 



   A.   Penalties. It shall be unlawful for any Customer of the
Department to fail to comply with any of the provisions of this Article.
Notwithstanding any other provision of the Los Angeles Municipal Code, the
penalties set forth herein shall be exclusive and not cumulative with any
other provisions of this Code. The penalties for failure to comply with any
of the provisions of this Article shall be as follows:



 



   1.   Violations of any of the provisions of Subsection A., B., C.,
D., E., and F. of Section 121.08 during the preceding twelve (12) calendar
months, shall result in imposition of an administrative civil penalty
pursuant to Penalty Schedule A and shall be included on the Customer's
regular water bill issued by the Department.



 




Penalty Schedule A




 



 


Water meter smaller than two (2") inches





 

Phase 1

 

Phase 2

 

Phase 3

 

Phase 4

 

Phase 5

 

Phase 6




1st Written Warning

 

$0

 

$0

 

$0

 

$0

 

$0

 

Board Authority




2nd Written Violation

 

$50

 

$100

 

$200

 

$300

 

$400

 

Board Authority




3rd Written Violation

 

$100

 

$200

 

$400

 

$600

 

$800

 

Board Authority




4th Written Violation

 

$150

 

$300

 

$600

 

$900

 

$1,200

 

Board Authority




 



 


Water meter two (2") inches and larger





 

Phase 1

 

Phase 2

 

Phase 3

 

Phase 4

 

Phase 5

 

Phase 6




1st Written Warning

 

$0

 

$0

 

$0

 

$0

 

$0

 

Board Authority




2nd Written Violation

 

$100

 

$200

 

$400

 

$600

 

$800

 

Board Authority




3rd Written Violation

 

$200

 

$400

 

$800

 

$1,200

 

$1,600

 

Board Authority




4th Written Violation

 

$300

 

$600

 

$1,200

 

$1,800

 

$2,400

 

Board Authority




 



   (a)   After a fifth or subsequent violation, the Department may
install a flow-restricting device of one-gallon-per-minute (1 GPM) capacity
for services up to one and one-half inch (1-1/2") size and comparatively
sized restrictors for larger services or terminate a Customer's service, in
addition to the financial surcharges provided for herein. Such action shall
be taken only after a hearing held by the Department where the Customer has
an opportunity to respond to the Department's information or evidence that
the Customer has repeatedly violated this Article or Department rules
regarding the conservation of water and that such action is reasonably
necessary to assure compliance with this Article and Department rules
regarding the conservation of water.



 



   Any such restricted or terminated service may be restored upon
application of the Customer made not less than 48 hours after the
implementation of the action restricting or terminating service and only upon
a showing by the Customer that the Customer is ready, willing and able to
comply with the provisions of this Article and Department rules regarding the
conservation of water. Prior to any restoration of service, the Customer
shall pay all Department charges for any restriction or termination of
service and its restoration as provided for in the Department's rules
governing water service, including, but not limited to, payment of all past
due bills and fines.



 



   2.   Violations of Section 121.09 shall result in imposition of
administrative civil penalties pursuant to Penalty Schedule B and shall be
included on the Customer's regular water bill issued by the Department:



 




Penalty Schedule B




 



 


Number of Consecutive Months with Violation

 

Phase 1

 

Phase 2

 

Phase 3

 

Phase 4

 

Phase 5

 

Phase 6




Violation during months 1-5

 

N/A

 

$1,000

 

$2,000

 

$5,000

 

$10,000

 

Board Authority




Violation during months 6-11

 

N/A

 

$2,000

 

$4,000

 

$10,000

 

$20,000

 

Board Authority




Violation during months 12-17

 

N/A

 

$3,000

 

$6,000

 

$15,000

 

$30,000

 

Board Authority




Violation during months 18-23

 

N/A

 

$4,000

 

$8,000

 

$20,000

 

$40,000

 

Board Authority




 



   (a)   Customers continuing to violate Section 121.09 beyond 24
months will be referred to the Board for consideration of flow restrictors or
other actions.



 



   C.   Notice. The Department shall give notice of each violation to
the Customer committing such violation as follows:



 



   1.   For any violation of the provisions of Section 121.08 and
121.09, the Department may give written notice of the fact of such violation
to the Customer personally, by posting a notice at a conspicuous place on the
Customer's premises or by United States mail, First-Class, postage prepaid,
addressed to the Customer's billing address.



 



   2.   If the penalty assessed is, or includes, the installation of a
flow restrictor or the termination of water service to the Customer, notice
of the violation shall be given in the following manner:



 



   (a)   By giving written notice thereof to the Customer personally; or



 



   (b)   If the Customer is absent from or unavailable at either their
place of residence or place of business, by leaving a copy with some person
of suitable age and discretion at either place, and sending a copy through
the United States mail, First Class postage prepaid, addressed to the
Customer at their place of business, residence or such other address provided
by the Customer for bills for water or electric service if such can be
ascertained; or



 



   (c)   If such place of residence, business or other address cannot
be ascertained, or a person of suitable age or discretion at any such place
cannot be found, then by affixing a copy in a conspicuous place on the
property where the failure to comply is occurring, and also by delivering a
copy to a person of suitable age and discretion there residing or employed,
if such person can be found, and also sending a copy through the United
States mail, First Class, postage prepaid, addressed to the Customer at the
place where the property is situated, as well as such other address provided
by the Customer for bills for water or electric service if such can be
ascertained.



 



   Said notice shall contain, in addition to the facts of the violation, a
statement of the possible penalties for each violation and statement
informing the Customer of their right to a hearing on the violation.



 



   D.   Hearing and Appeal. Any Customer who disputes any penalty
levied pursuant to this Section shall have a right to a dispute determination
conducted pursuant to the Department's Rules Governing Water and Electric
Service. Any Customer dissatisfied with the Department's dispute
determination may appeal that determination within 15 days of issuance to the
Board or to a designated hearing officer at the election of the Board. The
provisions of Sections 19.24, 19.25, 19.26 and Sections 19.29 through 19.39
of the Los Angeles Administrative Code shall apply to such appeals. All
defenses, both equitable and legal, may be asserted by a Customer in the
appeal process. The decisions of the Board shall become final at the
expiration of 45 calendar days, unless the Council acts within that time by a
majority vote to bring the action before it or to waive review of the action.
If the Council timely asserts jurisdiction, the Council may, by a majority
vote, amend, veto or approve the action of the Board within 21 calendar days
of voting to bring the matter before it, or the action of the Board shall
become final. If the City Council asserts jurisdiction over the matter and
acts within 21 calendar days of voting to bring the matter before it, the
City Council's action shall be the final decision.



 



   E.   Public Disclosure. Any violation of any section of this
Ordinance shall be subject to disclosure under the California Public Records
Act.



 



   F.   Reservation of Rights. The rights of the Department hereunder
shall be cumulative to any other right of the Department to discontinue
service. All monies collected by the Department pursuant to any of the
surcharge provisions of this Article shall be collected for water
conservation purposes consistent with this Ordinance.



 



 



SEC. 121.11.  GENERAL PROVISIONS.



 



   A.   Enforcement. The Department of Water and Power, through a
designee of the General Manager, shall enforce the provisions of this
Article. At any time, Department may use technology that will assist staff in
observing water use of customers and enforcing the ordinance. Technology may
be used for, but not limited to, evidence of an ordinance violation and as
justification for issuing any penalties.



 



   B.   Department to Give Effect to Legislative Intent. The Department
shall provide water to its Customers in accordance with the provisions of
this Article and in a manner reasonably calculated to effectuate the intent
hereof.



 



   C.   Public Health and Safety Not to be Affected. Nothing contained
in this Article shall be construed to require the Department to curtail the
supply of water to any Customer when, in the discretion of the Department,
such water is required by that Customer to maintain an adequate level of
public health and safety, provided further that a Customer's use of water to
wash the Customer's property immediately following the aerial application of
a pesticide, such as Malathion, shall not constitute a violation of this
Article.



 



   D.   Recycled Water and Gray Water. The provisions of this Article
shall not apply to the use of Recycled Water or Gray Water, provided that
such use does not result in excess water flow or runoff onto the adjoining
sidewalk, driveway, street, gutter or ditch. This provision shall not be
construed to authorize the use of Gray Water if such use is otherwise
prohibited by law.



 



   E.   Large Landscape Areas. Large Landscape Areas that have multiple
irrigation system stations can deviate from prescribed non-watering days if
their systems include weather-based irrigation controllers, and each
irrigation station is limited to the number of days prescribed in Section
121.08.



 



   F.   Hillside Burn Areas. The provisions of this Article shall not
apply to hillside areas recovering from fire that have been replanted for
erosion control. To qualify for this exemption, a Customer must obtain
verification from the agency requiring erosion control measures. The duration
of the exemption is limited to either one growing cycle, one year, or
establishment of the vegetation, whichever is the lesser time period.



 



 



SEC. 121.12.  SEVERABILITY.



 



   If any section, subsection, clause or phrase in this Article or the
application thereof to any person or circumstances is for any reason held
invalid, the validity of the remainder of the Article or the application of
such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected
thereby. The City Council hereby declares that it would have passed this
Article and each section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase thereof,
irrespective of the fact that one or more sections, subsections, sentences,
clauses, or phrases or the application thereof to any person or circumstance
be held invalid.



 



 



 



ARTICLE II
WATER CLOSET, URINAL AND SHOWERHEAD REGULATIONS



 




(Amended in Entirety by Ord. No. 172,075, Eff. 7/24/98.)




 



 



Section



122.00   Title and Purpose.



122.01   Scope.



122.02   Definitions.



122.03   Requirements.



122.04   Surcharge for Violation of Requirements in Section 122.03.



122.05   Notification.



122.06   Compliance.



122.07   Fees.



122.08   Certificates of Registration as Certified Water Conservation
Retrofitter.



122.09   Penalties.



122.10   Exemptions and Appeal.



 



 



SEC. 122.00.  TITLE AND PURPOSE.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 172,075, Eff. 7/24/98.)



 



   This article shall be known as Water Closet, Urinal and Showerhead
Regulations.  The Council of the City of Los Angeles, in order to
effectively address potential problems concerning existing water supplies and
the City’s ability to handle ever-increasing wastewater flow in the sewage
system, hereby implements a city-wide water conservation program.  Insofar
as this article restates previously codified regulations on this subject it
is the intent of this article to continue those regulations with the same
force and effect, as they would have had in the absence of this article, and
not to revoke and/or reenact those regulations.



 



 



SEC. 122.01.  SCOPE.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 172,075, Eff. 7/24/98.)



 



   The provisions of this article shall apply to all residential,
commercial, and industrial buildings in the City of Los Angeles that use
water in showers, water closets, or urinals, except those buildings which are
historical buildings or structures as those terms are used in Section 91.8400
of this Code and except those buildings which the Department of Water and
Power pursuant to its Rules has determined should be exempted.



 



 



SEC. 122.02.  DEFINITIONS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 172,075, Eff. 7/24/98.)



 



   For the purposes of this article:



 



   (a)   “Agreement of sale” shall mean any agreement, reduced to
writing, which provides that legal title of any real property shall
thereafter be conveyed from one owner to another.



 



   (b)   “Building” shall mean any structure having a roof
supported by columns or walls, for the housing, shelter or enclosure of
persons, animals, chattels or property of any kind..



 



   (c)   “Flushometer valve” shall mean any device which discharges
a predetermined quantity of water to fixtures for flushing purposes and is
actuated by direct water pressure.



 



   (d)   “Low consumption water closet” shall mean any water closet
that complies with ANSI Standards of ASME A112.19.2M - 1990 and ASME
A112.19.6 - 1990 (or as last revised).



 



   (e)   “Low-flow Showerhead” shall mean any showerhead that
allows a maximum flow rate of 2.5 gallons per minute and meets the National
Plumbing Fixture Efficiency Standards which is part of the Energy Policy Act
of 1992, Public Law 102-486 (October 22, 1992) and/or the energy efficiency
standards as described in Title 20 of the California Administrative Code.



 



   (f)   “Multi-family residential building” shall mean any
residential building with three or more dwelling units, for which a
satisfactory verification of condominium status has not been submitted to the
Department of Water and Power.



 



   (g)   “Owner” shall mean any person, partnership, association,
company, corporation or fiduciary in whom or in which is vested legal title
to real property improved with residential, commercial or industrial
buildings, or who or which possesses the power to convey legal title to such
real property.



 



   (h)   “Residential Building” shall mean a building or portion
thereof designed or used for human habitation.



 



   (i)   “Small Business Operation” shall mean any separately
metered commercial or industrial operation which has no urinals and which has
no more than two showers and two water closets not equipped with flushometer
valves and either complying with California Health and Safety Code Section
17921.3 or capable of functioning properly after being retrofitted.



 



   (j)   “Water closet flush-reduction device” shall mean a device,
such as a tank dam, that when added to or attached to a water closet, will
reduce the amount of water used per flush by at least one-half gallon.



 



 



SEC. 122.03.  REQUIREMENTS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 172,075, Eff. 7/24/98.)



 



   (a)   Each owner must, by October 13, 1988 or upon the date of
becoming an owner, whichever is later, assure that all existing showerheads,
water closets and urinals in commercial, industrial and residential buildings
comply with the following requirements:



 



   1.   All showers must be equipped with low-flow showerheads.  This
requirement shall not apply to any emergency shower installed for health or
safety purposes that cannot safely operate with a maximum flow rate that does
not exceed 2.5 gallons per minute.



 



   2.   All water closets must be equipped either with flushometer
valves which flush with a maximum of three and one-half gallons or with water
closet flush-reduction devices.  This requirement shall not apply to any
water closet that does not use more than an average of three and one-half
gallons per flush.



 



   3.   All urinals must be equipped with flushometer valves which
flush with a maximum of one and one-half gallons.



 



   (b)   Any showerhead in a commercial, industrial, or multi-family
residential building that does not comply with this section shall be replaced
with a low-flow showerhead.  Any water closet or urinal in a commercial,
industrial or multi-family residential building that does not comply with
this section or which does not function properly after being retrofitted in
order to comply with this section shall be replaced with a fixture or device
in compliance with California Health and Safety Code Section 17921.3.



 



   (c)   Costs incurred in complying with this section by the landlord
of a rental unit subject to the Rent Stabilization Ordinance (Los Angeles
Municipal Code Section 151.00, et seq.) shall not be eligible for a
rehabilitation work or capital improvement rent adjustment under the Rent
Stabilization Ordinance.



 



   (d)   Each owner must upon complying with the requirements of
Subsection (a) submit a Certificate of Compliance or Owner-Certified Notice
of Compliance to the Department of Water and Power which complies with the
requirements of Section 122.06.



 



   (e)   In addition to the provisions of Subsection (a), prior to
entering into an agreement of sale or contracting for an exchange of any real
property improved with residential, commercial, or industrial buildings, or
when an escrow agreement has been executed in connection therewith, prior to
the close of escrow, each owner or owner’s agent shall:



 



   1.   equip all urinals with flushometer valves which flush urinals
with a maximum of one and one-half gallons of water per flush;



 



   2.   ensure that all showerheads are low-flow showerheads which are
in compliance with the energy efficiency standards as described in Title 20
of the California Administrative Code.



 



   3.   ensure that all water closets are equipped either with
flushometer valves which flush with a maximum of three and one-half gallons
or with water closet flush-reduction devices.  This requirement shall not
apply to any water closet that does not use more than an average of three and
one-half gallons per flush.



 



   4.   effective January 1, 1999, where the real property which is the
subject of the sale has been improved with residential buildings, ensure that
all water closets are low consumption water closets.



 



 



SEC. 122.04.  SURCHARGE FOR VIOLATION OF REQUIREMENTS IN SECTION 122.03.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 172,075, Eff. 7/24/98.)



 



   (a)   If within 182 days of the date set for compliance in Section
122.03, an owner of a commercial, industrial or a multi-family residential
building fails to comply with the requirements of Section 122.03, the
Department of Water and Power shall thereafter charge that owner a
ten-percent surcharge on the charges for water used for the property in
violation, for each billing period until the owner complies or until the
365th day following the date set for compliance in Section 122.03, whichever
occurs first.



 



   (b)   If, after 365 days following the date set for compliance in
Section 122.03, the owner is still in violation, the Department of Water and
Power shall increase the surcharge to twenty-five percent on the charges for
water used for the property in violation, for each billing period until the
owner complies or until the 547th day following the date set for compliance
in Section 122.03, whichever occurs first.



 



   (c)   If, after the 547th day following the date set for compliance
in Section 122.03, the owner still has not complied with these requirements,
then the Department of Water and Power shall increase the surcharge to
fifty  percent on the charges for water used for the property in violation,
for each billing period until the owner complies or until the 729th day
following the date set for compliance in Section 122.03, whichever occurs
first.



 



   (d)   If, after the 729th day following the date set for compliance
in Section 122.03, the owner still has not complied with these requirements,
then the Department of Water and Power shall increase the surcharge to one
hundred percent on the charges for water used for the property in violation,
for each billing period until the owner complies.



 



   (e)   Charges collected pursuant to this section shall be deposited
in the Water Revenue Fund.  All charges collected as surcharges pursuant to
this section and deposited in the Water Revenue Fund commencing on and after
July 1, 1993, shall be remitted to the City Controller for the City General
Fund.  Thereafter, all charges collected as surcharges pursuant to this
section shall be remitted on a quarterly basis to the City Controller for the
City General Fund.



 



   (f)   Inclusion in a customer’s bill of a surcharge on charges for
water used for the property during the billing period shall be deemed a
determination by the Department of Water and Power that the surcharge be
assessed.  Notice of the determination shall be deemed to have been provided
to all interested parties on the date of mailing of the bill in which such
surcharge is included.  Appeals from determinations by the Department of
Water and Power pursuant to this section shall be in accordance with the
Rules established pursuant to Section 122.10, except that no appeal may be
taken from any determination more than 90 days after the aggrieved party has
received notice of the determination, or more than 180 days after the date of
the determination, whichever is earlier.  In no event shall the City or the
Department of Water and Power be required to refund any charges received
prior to the date of the determination.



 



 



SEC. 122.05.  NOTIFICATION.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 172,075, Eff. 7/24/98.)



 



   Prior to entering into an agreement of sale or contracting for an
exchange of any real property improved with residential, commercial, or
industrial buildings, or where an escrow agreement has been executed in
connection therewith, prior to the close of escrow, the owner or owner’s
agent shall give written notice of the requirements of this article to the
buyer.  Any seller of property subject to this article shall provide the
buyer with confirmation of compliance with the requirements of this article
in any agreement of sale for the property between the buyer and seller.



 



 



SEC. 122.06.  COMPLIANCE.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 172,075, Eff. 7/24/98.)



 



   (a)   Each owner of a commercial or industrial building which does
not qualify as a small business operation under Section 122.02(g) and each
owner of a multi-family residential building which has more than 10 units
shall employ a qualified person, as indicated in one of the categories listed
below, to inspect the building or building, and, if it is in conformance with
the requirements of this article, to file a Certificate of Compliance on a
form provided by the Department of Water and Power.  The Certificate of
Compliance shall be signed by the property owner or the owner’s agent and
the qualified person who performed the inspection and shall certify that,
based on personal knowledge, each water closet, urinal and showerhead in a
particular building is in compliance with the requirements of Section
122.03.  In addition, at the time of sale of any building described in this
paragraph, a new Certificate of Compliance shall be signed by the buyer or
buyer’s agent and the qualified person who performed the inspection and
shall certify that, based on personal knowledge, each water closet, urinal
and showerhead in a particular building is in compliance with the
requirements of Section 122.03.  The following persons are be qualified to
inspect buildings or buildings and submit Certificates of Compliance:



 



   1.   persons who hold valid contractor’s licenses issued by the
State of California, in the proper classification;



 



   2.   persons who hold valid Maintenance Certificates of Registration
issued pursuant to the provisions of Section 94.0402 of this Code;



 



   3.   persons who hold valid Water Conservation Retrofitter
Certifications, provided however that such persons may only submit
Certificates of Compliance for multi-family residential buildings which are
three or fewer stories in height.



 



   (b)   Each owner of a Small Business Operation as defined in Section
122.02(g), after complying with the requirements of this article, shall file,
or cause the owner’s agent to file, a Certificate of Compliance on a form
provided by the Department of Water and Power.  The Certificate of
Compliance shall be signed by the owner or the owner’s agent and shall
certify that, based on personal knowledge, each water closet, urinal and
showerhead in a particular building is in compliance with the requirements of
Section 122.03.  No other person’s signature is required for submission of
this certificate. In addition, at the time of sale of any such Small Business
Operation, a Certificate of Compliance on a form provided by the Department
of Water and Power shall be signed by both the buyer or buyer’s agent and
the seller or seller’s agent and either by a person listed in Subsections
1, 2, or 3 of Section 122.06(a) above or by a person licensed as a broker or
real estate agent by the California.  The Certificate of Compliance shall
certify that, based on personal knowledge of the person signing the
Certificate, each water closet, urinal and showerhead in a particular
building is in compliance with the requirements of Section 122.03.



 



   (c)   Each owner of a one or two-family dwelling, or a multi-family
residential building with 10 or fewer units, or an individual condominium
unit if a satisfactory verification of condominium status has been submitted
to the Department of Water and Power, after complying with the requirements
of this article, shall file an Owner-Certified Notice of Compliance.  This
Notice of Compliance is a written statement signed by the owner or the
owner’s agent on a form provided by the Department of Water and Power which
certifies that each water closet, urinal and showerhead in a particular
building is in compliance with the requirements of Section 122.03.  In
addition, at the time of sale of any such dwelling or building, a Certificate
of Compliance on a form provided by the Department of Water and Power shall
be signed by both the buyer or buyer’s agent and the seller or seller’s
agent and either by a person listed in Subsections 1, 2, or 3 of Section
122.06(a) above or by a person licensed as a broker or real estate agent by
the California.  The Certificate of Compliance shall certify that, based on
personal knowledge of the person signing the Certificate, each water closet,
urinal and showerhead in a particular building is in compliance with the
requirements of Section 122.03.



 



   (d)   The Certificate of Compliance or Owner-Certified Notice of
Compliance shall be filed with the Department of Water and Power within 15
days after complying with the provisions of this article.



 



   (e)   The provisions of Paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section
do not apply if a valid Certificate of Compliance has been previously
submitted to the Department of Water and Power within one year of the date
that the owner acquired title to the property.



 



   (f)   A Certificate of Compliance or an Owner-Certified Notice of
Compliance may be rejected if the Department of Water and Power determines
that the qualified person employed to inspect the work has failed or
neglected to comply with the provisions of this article, or that the
Certificate or Notice of Compliance contains a false statement of
representation, or fails to disclose a material fact.



 



   (g)   No person shall charge more than $25 per dwelling unit for
inspecting apartment units and certifying compliance with these regulations.



 



   (h)   Any person who knowingly and willfully makes a false statement
or representation or fails to disclose a material fact in a Certificate of
Compliance or in an Owner-Certified Notice of Compliance submitted to the
Department of Water and Power shall be punishable by a fine of not more than
$25.00 for the first violation, a fine of not more than $50.00 for the second
violation within one year, and a fine of not more than $100.00 for the third
violation and each additional violation within one year.



 



 



SEC. 122.07.  FEES.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 172,075, Eff. 7/24/98.)



 



   The Certificate of Compliance processing fee shall be as follows:



 



 

TYPE OF BUILDING
 

FEE



One-Family and Two-Family Dwellings
 

$15.00



All Other Residential, Commercial and Industrial Buildings
 




   Number of Floors in Building (including basements)
 





1 to 3   

 

$25.00




4 to 9    

 

$50.00




10 and above   

 

$75.00 plus $5.00 per floor above 10 floors




 



   



SEC. 122.08.  CERTIFICATES OF REGISTRATION AS CERTIFIED WATER CONSERVATION
RETROFITTER.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 172,075, Eff. 7/24/98.)



 



   (a)   Certificates of Registration as Certified Water Conservation
Retrofitters which are current as of the effective date of the ordinance
enacting this article or which expired no more than 12 months prior to that
same date are hereby renewed.  Said Certificates shall thereafter continue
to be valid without further application for renewal unless suspended or
revoked as set forth herein.



 



   (b)   A Certificate of Registration may be suspended or revoked in
accordance with the provisions of Article 8 of Chapter IX.



 



   (c)   Certificates of Registration are not transferable.  Upon the
dissolution of a firm, partnership, or corporation or other entity which held
a Certificate of Registration, the Certificate shall become void.



 



   (d)   Each person holding a valid Certificate of Registration shall
display it in some conspicuous location in his or her fixed place of business
or, if the person has no fixed place of business, he or she shall carry the
Certificate of Registration at all times while doing business as a Water
Conservation Retrofitter.



 



 



SEC. 122.09.  PENALTIES.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 172,075, Eff. 7/24/98.)



 



   It shall be an infraction for any person to violate any provision of
this article.



 



 



SEC. 122.10.  EXEMPTIONS AND APPEALS



   (Amended by Ord. No. 172,075, Eff. 7/24/98.)



 



   The Department of Water and Power shall adopt and promulgate rules by
which owners of buildings may apply for exemptions from the requirements of
this Article or appeal from surcharges imposed pursuant to Section 122.04. 
Any appeal from a surcharge made prior to the adoption of such rules shall be
pursuant to the provisions of Section 121.11 F.* of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code.



 



   * Note: Former Section 121.11 ("Conservation Appeal Boards") was
removed by Ord. No. 180,148, Eff. 8/25/08.



 



 



 



ARTICLE III
[REDUCTION OF SEWER FLOWS]



 




(Added by Ord. No. 163,532, Eff. 4/28/88.)




 



 



Section



123.00   Declaration of Purpose.



123.01   Definitions.



123.02   Conservation Phase Implementation.



123.03   Department of Water and Power Responsibilities.



123.04   Audits of Large Water and Sewer Users.



123.07   Penalties.



 



 



SEC. 123.00.  DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.



 



   The purpose of this article is to provide a mandatory water
conservation plan to reduce water consumption and avoid overloading the
City’s sewage treatment system so as to reduce sewer flows by at least 10
percent within five years of the effective date of this ordinance. In
particular, the Xeriscape requirements include providing alternatives for
achieving reduction in landscape water consumption. By reducing water
consumption, the City preserves the sewage treatment system. This measure
will promote the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City of
Los Angeles and the general public to the greatest extent possible.



 



 



SEC. 123.01.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   (a)   “Low-flow showerhead” shall mean a showerhead that allows
a maximum flow rate or three gallons per minute, and meets the 1987 Appliance
Efficiency Standard of California Administrative Code, Title 20.



 



   (b)   “Multi-family residential structure” shall mean any
residential structure with three or more dwelling units.



 



   (c)   “Owner” shall mean any person, partnership, association,
company, corporation or fiduciary in whom or in which is vested legal title
to real property improved with residential, commercial or industrial
buildings, or who or which possesses the power to convey legal title to the
real property.



 



   (d)   (Subsecs. (d) and (f) deleted, Subsec. (e) renumbered as (d)
by Ord. No. 170,978, Eff. 5/13/96, Oper. 7/13/96.)  “Water closet
flush-reduction device” is a device, such as a tank dam, that when added to
or attached to a water closet, will reduce the amount of water used per flush
by at least one-half gallon.



 



 



SEC. 123.02.  CONSERVATION PHASE IMPLEMENTATION.



 



   Initiation. When the Department of Public Works determines that the
capacity available in the City’s sewage system is such as to necessitate
the implementation of any phase of the Emergency Water Conservation Plan of
the City of Los Angeles, Los Angeles Municipal Code Section 121.00 et seq.,
the Department shall recommend to the Mayor that one or more phases of the
Emergency Water Conservation Plan be implemented. Thereafter the Mayor, with
the concurrence of the City Council, may order that one or more phases be
implemented, in accordance with the applicable provisions of this chapter.
This order shall be made by public proclamation and shall be published one
time only in a daily newspaper of general circulation and shall become
effective immediately upon publication.



 



 



SEC. 123.03.  DEPARTMENT OF WATER AND POWER RESPONSIBILITIES.



 



   As an aid to the implementation of this article, the Department of
Water and Power shall:



 



   1.   Distribute low-flow showerheads and water closet
flush-reduction devices free of charge to all residential dwelling units for
which building permits were issued prior to January 1, 1979; and



 



   2.   Monitor all water bills and notify those customers whose bills
are determined by the Department to be significantly above average. These
notifications shall commence within 90 days of the effective date of this
ordinance. These notifications shall be accompanied by water conservation
information, including instructions about water conservation audits conducted
by the Department of Water and Power.



 



 



SEC. 123.04.  AUDITS OF LARGE WATER AND SEWER USERS.



 



   Within 180 days of the effective date of this ordinance, the water
consumption of the 250 largest water users and the 250 largest sewer system
users in the City of Los Angeles shall be audited. These audits shall be
conducted by the owner or a representative of the owner in accordance with
guidelines established by the Department of Water and Power. The results of
these audits shall be reported to the Department of Water and Power by the
owner or a representative of the owner.



 



 



SEC. 123.05.  XERISCAPE REQUIREMENTS.



   (Repealed by Ord. No. 170,978, Eff. 5/13/96, Oper. 7/13/96.)



 



 



SEC. 123.06.



   (Repealed by Ord. No. 170,978, Eff. 5/13/96, Oper. 7/13/96.)



 



 



SEC. 123.07.  PENALTIES.



 



   It shall be an infraction for any person to violate any provision of
this article.



 



 



 



ARTICLE IV
LARGE TURF WATER CONSERVATION REGULATIONS



 




(Added by Ord. No. 163,532, Eff. 4/28/88.)




 



 



Section



124.00   Title and Purpose.



124.01   Scope.



124.02   Definitions.



124.03   Water Conservation Requirements for Large Turf Areas.



124.04   Surcharge for Violation of Requirements in Section 124.03.



124.05   Appellate Relief.



 



 



SEC. 124.00.  TITLE AND PURPOSE.



 



   This article shall be known as Large Turf Water Conservation
Regulations. The City Council, in order to effectively address potential
problems concerning existing and projected water supply shortages and the
City’s ability to handle ever increasing wastewater flow in the City sewage
system, hereby implements this conservation program.



 



 



SEC. 124.01.  SCOPE.



 



   The provisions of this article shall apply to all persons who own,
rent, lease or otherwise control the use of real property in the City of Los
Angeles which contains or encompasses a large turf area.



 



 



SEC. 124.02.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   (a)   “Base year” shall mean 1986.



 



   (b)   “Large turf area” shall mean an area continuing at least
three acres of turf.



 



   (c)   “Owner” shall mean any person, partnership, association,
company, corporation or fiduciary in whom or in which is vested legal title
to real property improved with residential, commercial or industrial
buildings, or who or which possesses the power to convey legal title to the
real property.



 



 



SEC. 124.03.  WATER CONSERVATION REQUIREMENTS FOR LARGE TURF AREAS.



 



   (a)   Owners of large turf areas in the City of Los Angeles shall
reduce or caused to be reduced by ten percent the amount of water used for
landscape irrigation purposes on large turf areas. The ten percent reduction
shall be calculated based on the corresponding billing period in the base
year.



 



   (b)   Owners of large turf areas shall comply with the requirements
of Subsection (a) of this section by October 13,1988.



 



   (c)   Owners of large turf areas who install water conservation
devices that are specifically designed or manufactured, as determined by the
Department of Water and Power, to reduce water consumption by at least ten
percent shall be deemed to have complied with this section.



 



   (d)   The provisions of this sections shall not apply to those
owners of large turf areas who are determined by the Department of Water and
Power to use reclaimed water for landscape irrigation purposes.



 



 



SEC. 124.04.  SURCHARGE FOR VIOLATION OF REQUIREMENTS IN SECTION 124.03.



 



   If an owner of a large turf area fails to comply with the requirements
of Section 124.03 within 182 days of the date set for compliance in Section
124.03, the Department of Water and Power shall thereafter charge the owner a
ten percent surcharge on the charges for water used for the property in
violation, for each billing period until the owner complies or until the
365th day following the date set for compliance in Section 124.03, whichever
occurs first.



 



   If, after 365 days following the date set for compliance in Section
124.03, the owner is still in violation, the Department of Water and Power
shall increase the surcharge to twenty-five percent on the charges for water
used for the property in violation, for each billing period until the owner
complies or until the 547th day following the date set for compliance in
Section 124.03, whichever occurs first.



 



   If, after the 547th day following the date set for compliance in
Section 124.03, the owner still has not complied with these requirements,
then the Department shall increase the surcharge to fifty percent on the
charges for water used for the property in violation, for each billing period
until the owner complies or until the 729th day following the date set for
compliance in Section 124.03, whichever occurs first.



 



   If, after the 729th day following the date set for compliance in
Section 124.03, the owner still has not complied with these requirements,
then the Department shall increase the surcharge to one hundred percent on
the charges for water used for the property in violation, for each billing
period until the owner complies.



 



   Charges collected pursuant to this section shall be deposited in the
Water Revenue Fund.



 



 



SEC. 124.05.  APPELLATE RELIEF.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 166,374, Eff. 12/8/90.)



 



   Appeals from determinations by the Department of Water and Power
pursuant to Sections 124.03 and 124.04 shall be in accordance with the
provisions of Section 121.11 F.* of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.



 



   * Note: Former Section 121.11 ("Conservation Appeal Boards") was
removed by Ord. No. 180,148, Eff. 8/25/08.



 



 



 



ARTICLE V
WATER EFFICIENCY REQUIREMENTS FOR NEW DEVELOPMENT AND RENOVATION OF EXISTING
BUILDINGS



 




(Added by Ord. No. 180,822, Eff. 9/4/09.)




 



 



Section



125.00   Title and Purpose.



125.01   Declaration of Policy.



125.02   Definitions and Standards.



125.03   Requirements.



125.04   Authorization.



125.05   Application.



125.06   Exemptions.



125.07   Severability.



 



 



SEC. 125.00.  TITLE AND PURPOSE.



 



   This Article shall be known as the Water Efficiency Requirements for
the construction of new buildings and the installation of new plumbing
fixtures in existing buildings in the City.  The purpose of this Article is
to impose water efficiency requirements for the construction of new buildings
and the installation of new plumbing fixtures in existing buildings to
minimize the effect of any water shortages to the customers of the City; and,
by means of this Article, to adopt provisions that will reduce the
consumption of water over an extended period of time, thereby extending the
available water required for customers while reducing hardship on the City
and the general public to the greatest extent possible, voluntary
conservation efforts having proved to be insufficient.



 



 



SEC. 125.01.  DECLARATION OF POLICY.



 



   It is hereby declared that it is in the interest of the City to advance
water efficiency measures for new development in the City.  To enhance the
sustainability of the City's water supply, water resources available to the
City shall be put to the maximum beneficial use to the extent possible.



 



 



SEC. 125.02.  DEFINITIONS AND STANDARDS.



 



   For purposes of this Article the following terms are defined as follows
based on recognized industry terms.  Other definitions relating to plumbing
fixtures are contained in the City Plumbing Code.



 



   1.   "ASME" is the American Society of Mechanical Engineers.




   2.   "Commercial Pre-rinse Spray Valves (PRSV)" are assemblies
consisting of a flexible hose and spray head for attachment to a faucet with
a built-in diverter.  Commercial kitchen pre-rinse spray valves shall be
equipped with an integral automatic shut off.



 



   3.   "Cooling Tower" is a large exterior heat exchanger that
transfers heat from condenser water to the outside air.



 



   4.   "CSA" is the Canadian Standards Association.



 



   5.   "Cycles of concentration" is the accumulation of dissolved
minerals in a cooling tower recirculating water.



 



   6.   "Dual Flush" means a toilet that has two flush modes, one at
1.1 gallons per flush or less and one at 1.6 gallons per flush or less.



 



   7.   "Energy Star®" is a government backed program helping
businesses and individuals protect the environment through energy efficiency.



 



   8.   "High Efficiency Toilet" is a toilet that flushes with no more
than 1.28 gallons of water.  A dual flush toilet is equivalent to a high
efficiency toilet.



 



   9.   "High Efficiency Urinal" is a fixture that flushes with no more
than 0.5 gallons of water.  A non-water use urinal is a high efficiency
urinal.



 



   10.   "IAPMO" is the International Association of Plumbing and
Mechanical Officials.



 



   11.   "Kitchen or Bar Sink Faucet" is a device opening that drains
water into an approved receptacle in domestic or commercial installations. 
Faucets that drain into other types of sinks, such as clinic sinks, floor
sinks, service sinks and other similar sinks are not included.



 



   12.   "Lavatory Faucet" is a faucet that drains into a lavatory
basin in a domestic or commercial installation.



 



   13.   "Metering Faucet" is a faucet that after actuation dispenses
water of a predetermined volume or for a predetermined period of time.  The
volume or cycle duration can be fixed or adjustable.



 



   14.   "Non-Water Urinals" are plumbing fixtures that are designed to
receive and convey only liquid waste (urine) through a trap seal and into the
gravity drainage system without the use of water for such function. 
Zero-water, Water-less or Water-free urinals are equivalent terms for
Non-water urinals.



 



   15.   "Potable Water" is water that is satisfactory for drinking,
culinary, and domestic purposes that meets the requirements of the health
authority having jurisdiction.



 



   16.   "Private or Private Use" refers to plumbing fixtures in
residences and apartments, private bathrooms in hotels and hospitals, and
restrooms in commercial establishments where the fixtures are intended for
the use of a family or an individual.



 



   17.   "Public or Public Use" means all uses of fixtures or
structures that are not defined as private or private use.



 



   18.   "Self-Closing Faucet" is a faucet designed to close itself as
the activating mechanism is released.



 



   19.   "Single Pass Cooling Systems" are systems within which water
is circulated only once to cool equipment before disposal.



 



   20.   "US EPA" is the United States Environmental Protection Agency.



 



   21.   "Water Closet, Electro-Hydraulic Tank Type" is a water closet
of the siphonic or washdown type that utilizes motors, pumps, and controllers
to assist the flushing action by monitoring and controlling the flush and
dictating the exact discharge from the tank into the bowl.  All
electro-hydraulic tank type water closets shall have a maximum effective
flush volume of not more than 1.28 gallons (4.8 liters) of water per flush in
accordance with ASME A112.19.2/ CSA B45.1 or ASME A112.19.14 and shall also
be listed to the EPA WaterSense Tank-Type High Efficiency Toilet
Specification.  The effective flush volume for dual flush toilets is the
composite, average flush volume of two reduced flushes and one full flush.



 



   22.   "Water Closet, Gravity" is a water closet that is designed to
flush the bowl by gravity.  All gravity type water closets shall have a
maximum effective flush volume of not more than 1.28 gallons (4.8 liters) of
water per flush in accordance with ASME A112.19.2/CSA B45.1 or ASME
A112.19.14 and shall also be listed to the EPA WaterSense Tank-Type High
Efficiency Toilet Specification.  The effective flush volume for dual flush
toilets is the composite, average flush volume of two reduced flushes and one
full flush.



 



   23.   "Water Closet, Pressure-Assist Type" is a water closet with a
pressure vessel installed within its tank that uses water supply pressure to
compress entrapped air.  When the flushing mechanism is activated, the
energy stored in the compressed air is released, causing a surge of water
into the bowl.  All pressure-assist type water closets shall have a maximum
effective flush volume of not more than 1.28 gallons (4.8 liters) of water
per flush in accordance with ASME A112.19.2/CSA B45.1 or ASME A112.19.14 and
shall also be listed to the EPA WaterSense Tank-Type High Efficiency Toilet
Specification.  The effective flush volume for dual flush toilets is the
composite, average flush volume of two reduced flushes and one full flush.



 



   24.   "Water Factor" is the number of gallons of water per cycle per
cubic foot (ft 3 ) that a clothes washer uses.  The Water Factor for a
clothes washer (residential or commercial) shall be calculated by the
quantity of water in Liter/Gallon (L/G) used to wash each cubic meter (m 3 )
or each cubic foot (ft 3 ) of machine drum capacity.  The Water Factor for a
residential dishwasher shall be calculated by the quantity of water use in
L/G per full machine wash and rinse cycle.



 



 



SEC. 125.03.  REQUIREMENTS.



 



   Effective December 1, 2009, all plumbing installations in new buildings
and installations of new plumbing fixtures in existing buildings shall meet
the following requirements: 



 



   (a)   Toilets.  All toilets installed shall be high efficiency
fixtures.  The maximum flush volume for high efficiency toilets shall not
exceed 1.28 gallons of water (effective) per flush (gpf).



 



   (b)   Urinals.  All urinals installed shall be high efficiency
fixtures.  The maximum flush volume of high efficiency urinals shall not
exceed 0.5 gallon of water per flush.  Effective October 1, 2010, the
maximum flush volume of high efficiency urinals shall not exceed 0.125 gallon
of water per flush.



 



   (c)   Faucets.  All faucets in public restrooms must be self
closing.  The flow rate for all indoor faucets shall be 2.2 gallons per
minute (gpm) except as follows:



 



   •   The maximum flow rate for private or private use lavatory
faucets shall be 1.5 gpm (5.6 Lpm).



 



   •   The maximum flow rate for public use lavatory faucets, shall
be 0.5 gpm. Exception:  Metering faucets shall deliver not more than 0.25
gallon (1.0 liter) of water per cycle.



 



   •   The maximum flow rate for a pre-rinse spray valve installed in
a commercial kitchen to remove food waste from cookware and dishes prior to
cleaning shall be 1.6 gpm (6.0 Lpm).



 



   (d)   Showerheads.  All showerheads must be low flow with a maximum
flow rate that does not exceed 2.0 gallons per minute.  This requirement
shall not apply to any emergency showerhead installed for health or safety
purposes.



 



   (e)   Dishwashers.



 



   1.   The maximum water use for high efficiency commercial
dishwashers shall be in accordance with Table 1.



 




TABLE 1
HIGH EFFICIENCY COMMERCIAL DISHWASHER WATER USE





 




Type

 

High-Temperature
Maximum gallons
per rack

 

Chemical-
Maximum gallons
per rack




Conveyer

 

0.70

 

0.62




Door

 

0.95

 

1.16




Undercounter

 

0.90

 

0.98









   2.   The maximum water use per washing cycle for high efficiency
domestic dishwashers shall be 5.8 gallons.



 



   All installed dishwashers must be Energy Star® rated.



 



   (f)   Cooling Towers.  All cooling towers must be operated at a
minimum of 5.5 cycles of concentration.



 



   (g)   Use of Single Pass Cooling Systems.  Single pass cooling
systems are strictly prohibited for use in devices, processes, or equipment
installed in commercial, industrial, or multi family residential buildings. 
This prohibition shall not apply to devices, processes, or equipment
installed for health or safety purposes that cannot operate safely otherwise.



 



 



SEC. 125.04.  AUTHORIZATION.



 



   The various officers, boards, departments, bureaus and agencies of the
City are hereby authorized and directed to immediately implement the
applicable provisions of this Article upon the effective date hereof.



 



 



SEC. 125.05.  APPLICATION.



 



   The provisions of this Article shall apply to all customers and
properties served by the Department of Water and Power wherever situated, and
shall also apply to all property and facilities owned, maintained, operated
or under the jurisdiction of the various officers, boards, departments,
bureaus or agencies of the City.



 



 



SEC. 125.06.  EXEMPTIONS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 181,560, Eff. 3/22/11.)



 



   The following buildings are exempt from this Article:



 



   (a)   Buildings for which plans were accepted by the Department of
Building and Safety and a fee paid prior to the effective date of this
Article; and



 



   (b)   Existing buildings where use of High Efficiency fixtures is
infeasible because their installation will compromise public health, safety,
or welfare.



 



   Any exemption from the requirements of this Article, except exemptions
from Subsection (f) or (g) of Section 125.03, requires written approval from
the Department of Building and Safety.  Any exemption from Subsection (f) or
(g) of Section 125.03 requires written approval from the Department of Water
and Power.  Any application for an exemption based on public health, safety,
or welfare must be accompanied by a registered engineer's report documenting
the need for the exemption.



 



 



SEC. 125.07.  SEVERABILITY.




   If any section, subsection, clause or phrase in this Article or the
application thereof to any person or circumstances is for any reason held
invalid, the validity of the remainder of the Article or the application of
such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected
thereby.  The City Council hereby declares that it would have passed this
Article and each section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase thereof,
irrespective of the fact that one or more sections, subsections, sentences,
clauses or phrases or the application thereof to any person or circumstances
be held invalid.



 



 



 



 


