
Los Angeles Municipal Code


CHAPTER XIII
THE EMERGENCY ENERGY CURTAILMENT PLAN OF THE CITY OF LOS ANGELES



 




(Amended in Entirety by Ord. No. 155,396, Eff. 6/16/81.)




 



 



   Article



 




   I   General Provisions










   II   Emergency Energy Curtailment Plan










   III   Emergency Capacity Curtailment Plan










   IV   Failure to Comply




 



 



 



ARTICLE I
GENERAL PROVISIONS



 



 



Section



131.00   Scope.



131.01   Declaration of Purpose.



131.02   Definitions.



131.03   Authorizations.



131.04   Application.



131.05   Authority of the Mayor to Implement this Chapter.



131.06   Resolution of Conflicting Provisions.



 



 



SEC. 131.00.  SCOPE.



 



   There is hereby established a City of Los Angeles Emergency Energy
Curtailment Plan and a City of Los Angeles Emergency Capacity Curtailment
Plan.



 



 



SEC. 131.01.  DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.



 



   The purpose of this chapter is to provide an energy curtailment plan
and a capacity curtailment plan to minimize the effect of a possible shortage
of electrical energy or capacity on customers of the Department and to adopt
provisions that will significantly reduce the consumption of electricity over
an extended or peak period of time, thereby maximizing the available fuel and
reducing power system loading while minimizing the hardship on the City and
the general public.



 



 



SEC. 131.02.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   The following words and phrases, whenever used in this chapter, shall
be construed as defined in this section unless from the context a different
meaning is intended or unless a different meaning is specifically defined
within individual sections of this chapter:



 



   a.   “City” means The City of Los Angeles.



 



   b.   “Mayor” means the Mayor of The City of Los Angeles.



 



   c.   “City Council” means the Council of The City of Los Angeles.



 



   d.   “Board” means the Board of Water and Power Commissioners.



 



   e.   “Citizens Advisory Committee” and “Committee” mean the
advisory committee appointed by the City Council and Mayor and described in
Section 134.10 of this ordinance.



 



   f.   “Department” means the Department of Water and Power of the
City of Los Angeles unless some other department of the City is expressly
described.



 



   g.   “General Manager” means the General Manager of the
Department of Water and Power of the City of Los Angeles. (Amended by Ord.
No. 173,307, Eff. 6/30/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)



 



   h.   “Section” means a section of this chapter.



 



   i.   “Customer” includes every person, firm, corporation, state
or local governmental agency, or public district using or receiving
electricity from the Department.



 



   j.   “Chapter” means the ordinance providing for “The
Emergency Energy and Capacity Curtailment Plan of The City of Los Angeles.”



 



   k.   “Officer” means every person designated in Section 200 of
the Los Angeles City Charter as being an officer of The City of Los Angeles.
(Amended by Ord. No. 173,307, Eff. 6/30/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)



 



   l.   “Base Period” means that period of time over which the base
is computed.



 



   m.   “Base” means the amount of electrical energy used on a
customer’s premises for corresponding billing periods ending within twelve
(12) months prior to the implementation date of this ordinance.



 



   n.   “Peak Demand Hours” means those hours of each day when
customer demand for electricity approaches and may exceed the Department’s
total electrical generating capability, and shall be established pursuant to
Section 131.06 of this chapter.



 



   o.   “Street Lighting” means every electric lamp erected or
suspended on or over a freeway, highway, street, sidewalk or parkway, whether
publicly or privately owned and which is open to public access at any time,
and is used in the lighting thereof, or any wire or other apparatus
immediately attached to such lamp.  Utilitarian street lighting in
residential areas shall not be deemed street lighting within the meaning of
this chapter.



 



   p.   “Recreational or cultural activity” means an activity to
which the public generally is admitted for the purpose of participating in or
witnessing an exhibition, including but not limited to, sporting events,
plays, concerts, amusement parks and similar enterprises. “Noncommercial
recreational or cultural activities” means those recreational or cultural
activities such as playgrounds or school and college athletics from which no
profit is derived or expected to be derived for any or all of the persons
engaged in each such activity. “Commercial recreational or cultural
activities” means all other recreational or cultural activities.



 



 



SEC. 131.03.  AUTHORIZATIONS.



 



   The various officers, boards, departments, bureaus and agencies of the
City are hereby authorized to immediately implement the provisions of this
chapter upon a declaration by the Mayor as provided in Section 131.05.



 



 



SEC. 131.04.  APPLICATION.



 



   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all customers of the
Department, to all property situated within the limits of the City, and to
all property and facilities owned, maintained, operated or under the
jurisdiction of the various officers, boards, departments, bureaus or
agencies of the City.



 



 



SEC. 131.05.  AUTHORITY OF THE MAYOR TO IMPLEMENT THIS CHAPTER.



 



   The Mayor is hereby granted the authority to order the implementation
of the provisions of this chapter at such times as the General Manager
determines that the Department’s fuel or capacity situation is, or appears
that it may soon become, critical. Said order shall be made in writing and
shall identify the applicable provisions and/or phases of the provisions of
this chapter which are to be implemented and shall state with specificity the
peak demand hours of the day during which the capacity curtailment provisions
of Article III shall be in effect.



 



   The Mayor shall have the discretionary authority to waive the monetary
penalty provisions set forth in Section 134.02 and, if so waived, shall state
such waiver in order implementing this chapter.



 



   At such time as the General Manager determines the Department’s fuel
or capacity situation is no longer critical or likely to become critical, he
shall so notify the office of the Mayor who may order that the applicable
provisions and/or phases of the provisions of this chapter, whichever may be
in effect at the time of said order, shall no longer be in effect until
further order is made in a like manner.



 



   The Mayor may also order implementation of the provisions of this
chapter at such times as the Governor of the State declares there is to be a
state of emergency caused by a severe energy or capacity shortage pursuant to
the California Emergency Services Act.



 



   At such time as any provision of this chapter may be ordered to provide
capacity, energy or both to another electric utility, the General Manager
shall provide the Mayor with a written estimate of the cost to be incurred by
the Department as the consequence of the Mayor’s order and a description of
the method by which these costs will be recovered, whether by money,
capacity, energy or a combination thereof.



 



   This section shall not be construed as prohibiting the Department, in
its sound discretion, from responding to an emergency call for assistance by
another electric utility within normal operating procedures.



 



   The City Council may, by a majority vote, ratify any order made by the
Mayor in implementing this chapter or may, by a two-thirds vote, rescind any
such order, or part thereof.



 



   All orders made pursuant to this chapter shall be by public
proclamation, and shall be published one (1) time in a daily newspaper of
general circulation.  All such orders shall become effective immediately
upon such publication or upon personal notice to the customer, whichever
first occurs.  Upon the suspension of Phase II provisions as herein
provided, the provisions of Phase I shall likewise be immediately suspended
unless specifically reinstated in the order.



 



 



SEC. 131.06.  RESOLUTION OF CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.



 



   At any time that the provisions of Article II of this chapter (the
Emergency Energy Curtailment Plan) and the provisions of Article III of this
chapter (the Emergency Capacity Curtailment Plan) are simultaneously
implemented, those provisions of Article III which require a greater
reduction in the consumption of electricity or capacity shall supercede
conflicting provisions of Article II during the peak demand hours.



 



 



 



ARTICLE II
EMERGENCY ENERGY CURTAILMENT PLAN



 



 



Section



132.01   Phase I.



132.02   Phase II.



132.03   Application of Surplus Reduction.



132.04   Minimal Levels of Required Reduction.



 



 



SEC. 132.01.  PHASE I.



 



   Effective upon declaration of the Mayor as provided in Section 131.05,
no customer shall make, cause or permit any use of electricity provided by
the Department in a manner which is contrary to the provisions of Subsections
a through i of this section.



 



   a.   Street Light Reduction.



 



   (i)   Electricity Supplied to City Agencies.  The Director of the
Bureau of Street Lighting of the Department of Public Works shall maintain a
Council-approved plan which, upon implementation, will produce a twenty-five
percent (25%) reduction in energy used for street lighting.



 



   (ii)   Electricity supplied to agencies of the County of Los Angeles
and State of California.  The appropriate agencies of the County of Los
Angeles and State of California are hereby requested to maintain a plan
which, upon implementation, will produce a twenty-five percent (25%)
reduction in energy used for street lighting.



 



   b.   Prohibited Use of Outdoor Advertising and Decorative Lighting.



 



   (i)   No customer shall at any time make, cause or permit any use of
electricity supplied by the Department to: light billboards or signs;
advertise goods or services; identify the providers of goods or services;
display goods, objects or designs symbolic of commercial enterprises,
trademarks, or logo; operate motors or devices to rotate or move advertising
signs; operate pumps or other devices in fountains which are primarily
decorative; operate building floodlighting, architectural or decorative
lighting, lights used for landscaping; or for any other purpose of those
listed above.



 



   (ii)   Exception.  Notwithstanding the provisions of Subsection (i)
hereof, each business establishment may operate its window and display
lighting and may illuminate one outdoor sign between the hours of sunset and
10:30 p.m. local time or one-half (1/2) hour after closing, whichever is the
later in time.



 



   c.   Prohibited Use of Functional Outdoor Lighting.  No customer
shall make, cause or permit any use of electricity from the Department for
the floodlighting of outdoor business areas including, but not limited to,
service stations, used car lots, new car lots, automobile parking lots, or
similar businesses when not open for business.  After sunset, when such
businesses are open, the use of electrical energy for such purposes shall not
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the energy used during the base period.



 



   d.   Comfort Heating and Cooling.



 



   (i)   No customer shall make, cause or permit the use of electricity
from the Department for the purpose of comfort space heating or cooling in
any commercial or industrial establishment when such premises are not open
for business.  During business hours, no electricity shall be used in such
establishments to provide heat to raise the temperature therein above 65 F
nor to provide cooling to reduce the temperature therein below 85 F except
where other temperatures are specifically required by law.



 



   (ii)   Exception.  Comfort space heating or cooling systems may be
operated contrary to the requirement of this subsection if it is demonstrated
to the satisfaction of the Department prior to such operation that to do so
will thereby result in a lower total energy consumption.



 



   e.   Prohibition of Electrical Use for Outdoor Public Exhibitions:



 



   (i)   Commercial Recreational or Cultural Activities.  No customer
shall make, cause or permit the use of electricity from the Department for
commercial recreational or cultural activities in excess of seventy-five
percent (75%) of the amount used by that customer in the base period for the
same or similar activities.



 



   (ii)   Non-Commercial Recreational or Cultural Activities.  No
customer shall make, cause or permit the use of electricity from the
Department for non-commercial recreational or cultural activities between the
hours of 9:00 p.m. and sunrise, local time, on facilities other than those
which are publicly owned.



 



   (iii)   Exceptions.  The foregoing prohibitions on the use of
electricity for outdoor public exhibitions shall not apply to drive-in
theaters or to religious, educational and political assemblies, nor any
recreational or cultural activity otherwise protected under the First
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.



 



   f.   Prohibited Indoor Business Lighting.  The use of electricity
is prohibited for window displays and for lighting the interior of any
business establishment during that period of time that said establishment is
not carrying on the usual and customary activities of that business,
provided, however, that a business establishment may provide sufficient
illumination to carry out ordinary and customary maintenance and janitorial
services.



 



   g.   Residential Restrictions.  No customer shall make, cause or
permit the use of electricity from the Department for residential purposes in
an amount in excess of ninety percent (90%) of the amount used during the
base period, as defined in this chapter.  No customer shall use electricity
provided by the Department for the heating or lighting, or both, of swimming
pools located on private residential property. For the purpose of this
subsection, a customer is deemed to be using electricity for residential
purposes if he is receiving such electricity pursuant to the Departments D-1
Domestic Service Schedule or is receiving such electricity solely for
consumption on and in premises used exclusively for non-transient residential
purposes.  As used in this subsection, premises shall be deemed to be used
exclusively for non-transient residential purposes if substantially all of
the residents therein occupy the dwelling units thereof on a month-to-month,
or longer, tenancy, with rent therefor payable not more frequently than
monthly.  Such premises include mobile home parks that meet the requirements
of this subsection in all other respects.



 



   h.   Commercial and Institutional Restrictions.  No customer shall
make, cause or permit the use of electrical energy from the Department for
any purpose whatever in the operation of an institution or commercial
enterprise in an amount in excess of eighty percent (80%) of the amount of
electrical energy consumed by that customer in that enterprise during the
base period as defined in this chapter.  A customer is deemed to be using
electricity for the operation of a commercial enterprise if he is receiving
electricity pursuant to the Department’s General Service Schedules, other
than customers receiving electricity for residential purposes as defined in
Subsection g above, and is engaged in those activities described in Major
Groups 40-86 and 89-99 inclusive, and Appendix ‘A’ thereto, of the
Standard Industrial Classification Manual, 1972 Edition, prepared by the
Statistical Policy Division of Executive Office of the President, Office of
Management and Budget.



 



   i.   Industrial Restrictions.  No customer shall make, cause or
permit the use of electrical energy from the Department in the operation of
any industrial enterprise in an amount in excess of ninety percent (90%) of
the amount of electrical energy consumed by that customer during the base
period as defined in this chapter.  A customer is deemed to be using
electricity for the operation of an industrial enterprise if he is receiving
electricity pursuant to the Department’s General Service Schedule and is
engaged in those activities described in Major Group 01-39 inclusive, and
Appendix “A” thereto, of the Standard Industrial Classification Manual,
1972 Edition prepared by the Statistical Policy Division of the Executive
Office of the President, Office of Management and Budget.



 



 



SEC. 132.02.  PHASE II.



 



   At such time as the consumption of fuel by the Department’s
electrical generating facilities exceeds fuel supplies, including inventory
and firm deliveries, which are estimated to provide for less than 40 days of
system operation and fuel supplies levels are expected to continue to
decline, the Mayor may order that no customer shall make, cause or permit any
use of electrical energy provided by the Department of Water and Power in a
manner which is contrary to the provisions of Subsections a through d of this
section.  Said order shall be made in accordance with Section 131.05.



 



   a.   Prohibited Uses.



 



   (i)   Any use prohibited in Subsection a through f of Section 132.01.



 



   (ii)   The illumination of billboards at any time whatsoever.



 



   (iii)   Functional outdoor business lighting at any time whatsoever.



 



   (iv)   the illumination of or in connection with outdoor
non-commercial recreational or cultural activities of any nature whatsoever
at any time whatsoever.



 



   (v)   Outdoor commercial or cultural activities of any nature
whatsoever in an amount in excess of fifty percent (50%) of the amount used
by that customer in the base period for the same or similar activity.



 



   b.   Residential Restrictions.  No customer shall make, cause or
permit the use of electricity from the Department for residential purposes in
an amount in excess of eighty-eight percent (88%) of the amount used during
the base period, as defined in this chapter.  No customer shall use
electricity provided by the Department for the heating or lighting, or both,
of swimming pools located on private residential property. For the purpose of
this subsection, a customer is deemed to be using electricity for residential
purposes if he is receiving such electricity pursuant to the Department’s
D-1 Domestic Service Schedule or is receiving such electricity solely for
consumption on and in premises used exclusively for non-transient residential
purposes.  As used in this subsection, premises shall be deemed to be used
exclusively for non-transient residential purposes if substantially all of
the residents therein occupy the dwelling units thereof on a month-to-month,
or longer, tenancy, with rent therefor payable not more frequently than
monthly.  Such premises include mobile home parks that meet the requirements
of this subsection in all other respects.



 



   c.   Commercial and Institutional Restrictions.  No customer shall
make, cause or permit the use of electricity from the Department for any
purpose whatever in the operation of an institutional or commercial
enterprise in an amount in excess of sixty-seven percent (67%) of the amount
of electrical energy consumed by that customer in that enterprise during the
base period as defined in this chapter.  A customer is deemed to be using
electricity for the operation of a commercial enterprise if he is receiving
electricity pursuant to the Department’s General Service Schedules, other
than customers receiving electricity for residential purposes as defined in
Subsection b above, and is engaged in those activities described in Major
Groups 40-86 and 89-99, inclusive, and Appendix ‘A’ thereto, of the
Standard Industrial Classification Manual, 1972 Edition, prepared by the
Statistical Policy Division of the Executive Office of the President, Office
of Management and Budget.



 



   d.   Industrial Restrictions.  No customer shall make, cause or
permit the use of electricity from the Department in the operation of any
industrial enterprise in an amount in excess of eighty-four percent (84%) of
the amount of electricity consumed by that customer during the base period as
defined in this chapter.  A customer is deemed to be using electricity for
the operation of an industrial enterprise if he is receiving electricity
pursuant to the Department’s General Service Schedule and is engaged in
those activities described in Major Groups 01-39, inclusive of Appendix
‘A’ thereto, of the Standard Industrial Classification Manual, 1972
Edition, prepared by the Statistical Policy Division of the Executive Office
of the President, Office of Management and Budget.



 



 



SEC. 132.03.  APPLICATION OF SURPLUS REDUCTION.



 



   Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, any reduction in
the use of electrical energy by any customer during any single period in
excess of the amount required by this article shall be applied as follows:



 



   a.   Said surplus shall be applied to that customer’s electrical
energy consumption figure for the immediately preceding billing period and
thereby reduce or avoid a penalty incurred during said period.  Any penalty
so avoided in its entirety shall not be considered a prior violation for the
purpose of computing increased penalties pursuant to Section 134.02.



 



   b.   Any surplus remaining after the application of the surplus as
provided immediately above shall be applied to offset that customer’s
excessive usage of electrical energy by him during the billing period
immediately following the accumulation of said surplus.  Said carry-forward
of the surplus shall operate only as an offset to excessive usage and shall
not be applied to any use of electrical energy in an amount at or below his
allowable maximum consumption thereof.



 



   c.   Exception.  In no event may any surplus reduction be applied
as an offset to any billing period other than that immediately preceding or
immediately following the billing period in which said surplus reduction
occurred, or both, nor may any surplus reduction be applied by any customer
to offset excessive consumption of electricity by any other customer or at
any other location, whether or not owned or operated by that customer, except
as expressly permitted by the Department pursuant to the discretionary powers
vested in it by this chapter. Notwithstanding the accumulation of any surplus
reduction, in no event shall any customer use electricity for any use
specifically prohibited by this chapter.



 



 



SEC. 132.04.  MINIMAL LEVELS OF REQUIRED REDUCTION.



 



   Nothing contained in Subsections g, h and i of Section 132.01 or
Subsections b, c and d of Section 132.02 shall be deemed to require any
customer of the Department to reduce his consumption of electrical energy
provided by the Department to an amount less than 400 kilowatt hours at each
meter during any monthly billing period or 800 kilowatt hours at each meter
during any bimonthly billing period, nor shall anything contained therein be
deemed to require those customers falling within Major Group 80 or Group No.
866 of the Standard Industrial Classification Manual, 1972 Edition, prepared
by the Statistical Policy Division of the Executive Office of the President,
Office of Management and Budget, to reduce their consumption of electrical
energy to less than ninety percent (90%) of their base during Phase I, or
less than eighty percent (80%) of their base during Phase II, of the
Emergency Energy Curtailment Plan.



 



   For customers who have installed dual metering (time-of-day metering),
the total consumption from all registers shall be considered in computing
total consumption for the purpose of this article.



 



 



 



ARTICLE III
EMERGENCY CAPACITY CURTAILMENT PLAN



 



 



Section



133.01   Electrical Capacity Plan.



 



 



SEC. 133.01.  ELECTRICAL CAPACITY PLAN.



 



   No customer shall, during those peak demand hours established by the
Mayor pursuant to Section 131.05, make, cause or permit any use of
electricity energy provided by the Department in a manner which is contrary
to the provisions of Subsections a through f of this section.



 



   a.   Outdoor Advertising and Decorative Lighting.  Any use of
electrical energy for the following purposes is prohibited:



 



   (i)   to light billboards or signs;



 



   (ii)   to advertise goods or services;



 



   (iii)   to identify the providers of goods or services;



 



   (iv)   to display goods, objects, or designs symbolic of commercial
enterprises, trademarks, or logo;



 



   (v)   to operate motors or devices to rotate or move advertising
signs;



 



   (vi)   to operate pumps or other devices in fountains which are
primarily decorative;



 



   (vii)   to operate building floodlighting, architectural or
decorative lighting, or lights used for landscaping;



 



   (viii)   any other purpose similar to items (i) through (vii) above.



 



   b.   Functional Outdoor Lighting.  Any use of electricity energy
for the floodlighting of outdoor commercial areas, including, but not limited
to, service stations, used car lots, new car lots, automobile parking lots,
or similar businesses is prohibited.



 



   c.   Comfort Heating and Cooling.  Any use of electricity energy
for the following purposes is prohibited:



 



   (i)   to provide space heating to raise the temperature in any
occupied establishment, building, structure or residence above 65° F or, if
unoccupied, above 55° F;



 



   (ii)   to provide space cooling for unoccupied areas or to lower the
temperature in any occupied establishment, building structure or residence
below 85° F;



 



   (iii)   notwithstanding (i) and (ii) above, to heat or cool vacant
hotel, motel, banquet, convention, recreational, or similar guest
accommodation facilities



 



   (iv)   notwithstanding (i) and (ii) above, to heat sleeping
facilities, including residences, above 55° F during sleeping hours.



 



   During periods of extreme capacity shortages as determined by the
General Manager, the Mayor may, by following the procedures established in
Section 131.05, order that the use of heating and air conditioning equipment
be discontinued or that they be set at a temperature setting to be designated
in the order during peak demand hours, except in those buildings where this
section would close off all ventilation.



 



   d.   Indoor Business Lighting.  The use of electricity is
prohibited for window displays and for lighting the interior of any business
establishment during that period of time that said establishment is not
carrying on the usual and customary activities of that business, provided,
however, that a business establishment may provide sufficient illumination to
carry out ordinary and customary maintenance and janitorial services.



 



   e.   Swimming Pool Timer.  Timers associated with private swimming
pool pumps and filtration equipment maintained by an individual for the use
of his family and friends shall not be set to operate such equipment during
the peak demand hours.



 



   f.   Nonessential Uses of Electricity.  All nonessential uses of
electricity during the peak demand hours shall be deferred to nonpeak
hours.  Such uses include, but are not limited to, use of appliances such as
clothes washers and dryers, dishwashers, hydro-message comfort pools, and
unneeded lighting.



 



 



 



ARTICLE IV
FAILURE TO COMPLY



 



 



Section



134.01   Enforcement.



134.02   Penalties.



134.03   Notice.



134.04   Hearing.



134.05   Reservation of Rights.



134.06   Relief from Compliance.



134.07   Department Not to Discriminate.



134.08   Public Health and Safety Not to Be Affected.



134.09   Powers of the Department.



134.10   Citizens Advisory Committee.



134.11   Severability.



 



 



SEC. 134.01.  ENFORCEMENT.



 



   The Department of Water and Power shall enforce the provisions of
Article II and Article III of this chapter.



 



 



SEC. 134.02.  PENALTIES.



 



   It shall be unlawful for any customer to fail to comply with any of the
provisions contained in Article II or Article III of this chapter.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Los Angeles Municipal Code the
penalties set forth herein shall be exclusive, and not cumulative with any
other penalty prescribed in any other section of this Code.  The penalties
for failure to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter shall be as
follows:



 



   a.   Violations of the Provisions of Article II.



 



   (i)   On the first and second violations by any customer, a warning
notice of the fact of such Article II violations shall be issued by the
Department and delivered to the customer as provided herein, and if the
violation is of Subsections a, b, c, d, e, or f of Section 132.01 hereof or
of Section 132.02 hereof and the customer fails to comply promptly with the
requirements of this chapter after receiving notice of said violation, the
Department shall terminate service to said customer until such time as
compliance thereto is assured, as determined by the Department in its sound
discretion.  If the violation is of Subsections h, i, or j of Section
132.01, a surcharge for the 1st and 2nd violations shall be made to the
customer in an amount equal to not less than ten percent (10%) nor more than
one-hundred percent (100%) of that customer’s electrical bill for the
billing period during which the violation occurred in accordance with the
following schedule:



 




Residential/Industrial Customers





(Ten Percent (10%) Reduction Required):




 



 

Reduction Achieved
 
1st Violation Surcharge
 
2nd Violation Surcharge



8% but less than 10%

 

10%

 

20%




6% but less than 8%

 

20%

 

40%




4% but less than 6%

 

30%

 

60%




2% but less than 4%

 

40%

 

80%




less than 2%

 

50%

 

100%




 




Commercial/lnstitutional Customers





(Twenty Percent (20%) Reduction Required):




 



 

Reduction Achieved
 
1st Violation Surcharge
 
2nd Violation Surcharge



16% but less than 20%

 

10%

 

20%




12% but less than 16%

 

20%

 

40%




8% but less than 12%

 

30%

 

60%




4% but less than 8%

 

40%

 

80%




less than 4%

 

50%

 

100%




 



   (ii)   For a third violation by any customer during the effective
dates of the particular Phase during which the violation occurred or during
the preceding twelve (12) calendar months, whichever is the shorter the
Department shall access a surcharge where applicable equal to that scheduled
for a second violation and shall discontinue electrical service to that
customer at the premises at which the violation occurred for a period of two
(2) days, upon the giving of notice of the third violation to said customer
in the manner herein set forth.



 



   (iii)   For a fourth violation by any customer, during the effective
dates of the particular Phase during which the violation occurred or during
the preceding twelve (12) calendar months, whichever is the shorter the
Department shall assess a surcharge where applicable equal to that scheduled
for a second violation and shall discontinue electrical service to that
customer at the premises at which the violation occurred for a period of five
(5) days, upon the giving of notice of such violation to said customer in the
manner herein set forth.



 



   (iv)   For each subsequent violation by any customer during the
effective dates of the particular Phase during which the violation occurred
or during the preceding twelve (12) calendar months, whichever is the
shorter, the Department shall access a surcharge where applicable equal to
that scheduled in a second violation and shall discontinue electrical service
to that customer at the premises at which the violation occurred for a period
of not less than five (5) days or more than thirty (30) days, as determined
by the General Manager.



 



   b.   Violations of Provisions of Article III.  The Department shall
discontinue service to a customer for non-compliance with any of the
provisions contained in Article III hereof if, after notice as provided
herein, a customer has not initiated compliance or sought a hearing regarding
such notice.  Service will be restored only after the customer has
established compliance with the provision of Article III hereof.



   c.   Service Charge.  The Department shall have the right to
recover from the customer all reasonable expenses incurred by the Department
in disconnecting and reconnecting the customer’s service pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter and the Department’s rules and regulations
adopted pursuant thereto.



 



 



SEC. 134.03.  NOTICE.



 



   The Department shall give notice of each violation to the customer
committing such violation as follows:



 



   a.   If the penalty assessed is limited to the surcharge described
hereinabove, by enclosing with the billing on which said surcharge appears a
written notice of the violation.



 



   b.   If the penalty assessed is, or includes, the termination of
service to the customer for any period of time whatever, notice of the
violation shall be given in the following manner:



 



   (i)   By giving written notice thereof to the customer personally; or



 



   (ii)   If the customer be absent from his place of residence and
from his assumed place of business, by leaving a copy with some person of
suitable age and discretion at either place, and sending a copy through the
United States mail addressed to the customer at either his place of business
or residence; or



 



   (iii)   If such place of residence and business cannot be
ascertained, or a person of suitable age and discretion cannot be located at
the premises, then by affixing a copy in a conspicuous place on the property
where the failure to comply is occurring and also by delivering a copy to a
person there residing, if such person can be found, and also sending a copy
through the United States mail addressed to the customer at the place where
the property is situated.



 



   Said notice shall contain, in addition to the facts of the violation, a
statement of the possible penalties for each violation and a statement
informing the customer of his right to a hearing on the violation.



 



 



SEC. 134.04.  HEARING.



 



   Any customer against whom a penalty is or may be levied pursuant to
this chapter shall have a right to a hearing on the merits of the alleged
violation upon the written request of that customer.  The Council and Mayor
shall adopt such regulations and rules as they, in their sound discretion,
deem reasonable and necessary to the formation, procedure and operation of
one or more appeal boards to conduct hearings pursuant to this section.



 



 



SEC. 134.05.  RESERVATION OF RIGHTS.



 



   The rights of the Department hereunder shall be cumulative to any other
right of the Department to discontinue service.



 



 



SEC. 134.06.  RELIEF FROM COMPLIANCE.



 



   a.   Prerequisites to Relief.  Any customer who is dissatisfied
with the application of any of the provisions of this chapter, as the same
relate to him, may seek relief as set forth below.  No relief shall be
granted to any customer in the absence of a showing by the customer that he
has achieved the maximum practical reduction in electricity consumption in
his residential, commercial or industrial energy usage, as the case may be,
other than in the specific area in which relief is sought. In deciding what
is the maximum practical reduction in electricity consumption, the appeal
board shall take into consideration all relevant factors, specifically
including, although not limited to, the particular question of whether any
additional reduction in electrical energy consumption will result in a
significant rise in unemployment.  Any relief granted pursuant to this
subsection shall be only to the extent minimally necessary to avoid a
significant rise in unemployment and to achieve the ends reasonably sought in
making the application.  No relief shall be granted to any customer who,
when requested by the Department, fails to provide the Department with
information whereby the services provided to him can be classified for the
purpose of establishing an appropriate base or classification pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter.



 



   b.   Relief Available.  A customer may seek relief as herein
provided for any application of the provisions of this chapter that adversely
affect him at such times as Phase I of the energy curtailment plan is in
effect. During Phase II of the energy curtailment plan or any subsequent
phase which may hereinafter be imposed, or during the capacity curtailment
plan, a customer may seek relief as herein provided only as to the issue of
whether that customer committed the particular act or acts, or omitted to
perform the particular act or acts, as alleged by the Department.



 



   c.   Procedure for Application for Relief.  The Mayor, with the
concurrence of the City Council, shall establish such number of review boards
and appeal boards as he deems necessary.  Each such board shall be composed
of 3 members, one of whom shall represent business, one of whom shall
represent labor, and one of whom shall represent the general public.



 



   (i)   A review board shall promptly examine all Department
administrative action regarding resolution of applications for relief which
affect commercial, industrial or institutional customers and shall promptly
examine a representative sample of the administrative action taken by the
Department regarding the request for relief by residential customers.



 



   (ii)   As to each request for relief considered by it, a review
board shall, in its discretion, either: not take exception to the
Department’s disposition of the matter; return said matter to the
Department for reconsideration; or forward the matter to an appeal board. 
If no exception is taken to the Department’s disposition of the matter, or
if the Department’s disposition of the matter is not considered by a review
board, and the customer has not filed a timely application for a hearing
pursuant to Subsection (d) below, said disposition shall become final.



 



   (iii)   Applications for relief from the provisions of this chapter
and the operation of the review and appeals board shall be in accordance with
the rules and regulation established by the Mayor with the concurrence of the
City Council.



 



   d.   Administrative Remedies.  The filing by a customer of an
application for a hearing before an appeal board, within five (5) days of the
Departmental action complained, shall automatically stay the implementation
of the proposed course of action by the Department pending the decision of
the appeal board. No other or further stay shall be granted by the
Department. Requests for relief hereunder may be filed immediately upon this
chapter becoming effective.



 



   e.   Wilful Misrepresentation.  Notwithstanding any other provision
of law, and in addition thereto and not in lieu thereof, any wilful
misrepresentation of material fact by any person to the Department or to any
review or appeal board established pursuant to this chapter, made for the
purpose of securing relief from the provisions of the chapter for any
customer, is unlawful.  A violation of this subsection shall be punishable
by a fine not exceeding the sum of five hundred dollars ($500), or by
imprisonment in the county jail for a period not to exceed six (6) months, or
both such fine and imprisonment.



 



 



SEC. 134.07.  DEPARTMENT NOT TO DISCRIMINATE.



 



   The Department shall provide electricity to its customers in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter, and in a manner reasonably calculated to
effectuate the intent thereof and without regard to the status or nature of
the customer.



 



 



SEC. 134.08.  PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY NOT TO BE AFFECTED.



 



   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to require the
Department to curtail the supply of electricity to any customer when, in the
discretion of the Department or an appeal board, such energy is required by
that customer to maintain an adequate level of public health and safety, nor
shall anything in this chapter be construed so as to require action by any
customer which would violate any federal, state or local law, rule, or
regulation, or endanger the health and safety of any person, or fail to
provide a minimal level of security.



 



 



SEC. 134.09.  POWERS OF THE DEPARTMENT.



 



   a.   The Department, in its discretion, may adjust the base assigned
to any customer if that customer establishes, to the satisfaction of the
Department, that the base, as herein provided, would cause him great hardship
for reasons including but not necessarily limited to demonstration of
substantial conservation achievements, technological improvements to that
customer’s premises since the base period, increased employment in said
customer’s business since the base period, a substantial change in either
the manner or the extent of use of electricity at the location in question
since the base period, and abnormal temperature changes, economic
fluctuations, and occupancy factors occurring since the base period.



 



   b.   The Department shall have the power to reclassify any
residential commercial, institutional, or industrial customer to any other
classification upon a showing of good cause by said customer of why all
customers similarly situated should be so reclassified.



 



   c.   The Department shall have the power, upon the filing by a
customer of an application for relief as herein provided, to take such steps
as it deems reasonable and to set up such procedures as it deems appropriate
thereto to resolve said appeal prior to the submission of said appeal to an
appeal board. If a resolution of the appeal is mutually agreed upon between
the Department and the customer, the agreement and the fact of concurrence
therewith shall be in writing subscribed by the customer, and shall be
submitted to a review board as required by Section 134.04. No further appeal
may then be taken by the customer on the same, or substantially similar,
circumstances and facts.



 



   d.   The Department shall have the power to take any and all other
steps it deems reasonable and proper to facilitate the fair and just
enforcement of this chapter and appeals taken pursuant thereto.



 



   e.   The Department shall consult with and consider the advice and
recommendations submitted to it by the Citizens Advisory Committee.



 



 



SEC. 134.10.  CITIZENS ADVISORY COMMITTEE.



 



   a.   Upon the enactment by the Mayor of the Emergency Energy
Curtailment provisions of this ordinance, the City Council, subject to the
approval of the Mayor, may create a Citizens Advisory Committee comprised of
16 members to give counsel to and make recommendations to the Department and
the City with respect to the implementation and administration of those
provisions of the ordinance and to recommend such amendments thereto as the
Committee believes appropriate.



 



   b.   Upon creation of the Citizens Advisory Committee, the
Councilperson for each Council district shall appoint one person to represent
his office and the Mayor shall appoint one person to serve on each
committee.  Once created, the committee shall conduct its first meeting at
the call of the Chief Legislative Analyst and organize itself by the election
of a Chairman and Secretary.  Thereafter such committee shall meet at the
call of either its Chairman, the Mayor, or the City Council.



 



   c.   The City Departments of Building and Safety, Police, Fire,
Public Works, Airports, Harbor, Recreation and Parks, Transportation, and
Water and Power shall each appoint a representative to attend the meetings of
such committee and provide such staff support as the committee shall request.



 



 



SEC. 134.11.  SEVERABILITY.



 



   If any section, subsection, clause, or phrase in this chapter or the
application thereof to any person or circumstances is for any reason held
invalid, the validity of the remainder of the chapter or the application of
such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected
thereby. The City Council hereby declares that it would have passed this
chapter and each section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase thereof,
irrespective of the fact that one or more sections, subsections, sentences,
clauses, or phrases of the application thereof to any person or circumstance
be held invalid.



 



 



 



 


