
Los Angeles Municipal Code


CHAPTER I
GENERAL PROVISIONS AND ZONING



 



 



   Article



 



      General Planning Department Information



 




   1   General Provisions










   1.2   Administrative Citations










   1.5   Planning – Comprehensive Planning Program










   2   Specific Planning – Zoning – Comprehensive Zoning Plan










   2.9   Condominiums, Community Apartments and Stock Cooperatives










   3   Specific Plan – Zoning Supplemental Use Districts










   4   Public Benefit Projects










   4.3   Eldercare Facility Unified Permit Process










   4.4   Sign Regulations










   4.5   Transfer of Floor Area Rights – Central City Community Plan
and City Center Redevelopment Project Areas










   5   Referrals – Land for Public Use










   6   Temporary Regulations Relating to Land Use Approvals for
Properties Damaged in a Local Emergency










   6.1   Review of Development Projects










   7   Division of Land Regulations










   8   Private Street Regulations










   9   Fees




 



 



 



GENERAL PLANNING DEPARTMENT INFORMATION



 




HISTORY










   The City Council originally established the City Planning Department by
ordinance, adopted on April 9, 1920.  The Department included a Commission
of 51 members, serving without salary, and one paid secretary.  At that
time, the City had an area of 364 square miles and a population of 576,000. 
In 1925, when the citizens adopted the original City Charter, the City
Planning Commission, together with all other Commissions of City Government,
was changed to five members.  The new City Charter adopted in June of 1999,
operative in July 2000, expanded the City Planning Commission to nine
members.  The new City Charter also created seven area planning commissions
each covering different areas of the City.










   Over the years, the Department has grown to a total of over 260 staff
members.  During this same period, the City has grown to an area of 467
square miles with a population of about 3.9 million people.















FUNCTIONS










   The Department is charged with the responsibility of preparing,
maintaining and implementing a General Plan for the development of the
City.  The General Plan consists of the Framework Element, which provides
overall guidance for the future of the City, various other citywide elements
including the state-mandated elements such as the Transportation, Open Space
and the Land Use among others.  The Land Use Element is largely made up of
the community plans that fall for a range of allowable land uses and
intensities of uses as well as other matters relating to the use of land
unique to each of the City’s many communities.  The Department
periodically updates these plans as needed.










   The Planning Department implements the General Plan utilizing a variety
of tools, mainly through the application of zoning regulations and the
division of land into separate parcels.  Traditional zones, specific plans,
overlay districts, special use permits, such as conditional uses, and a
variety of other instruments all regulate the use of land.  The zoning
portion of the Municipal Code, specific plans and other regulatory tools
establish development standards applicable to matters such as heights of
structures, setbacks, lot coverage, open space, parking, design and the
like.  Those seeking relief from the strict application of these
regulations, apply to the Department, which can grant  that relief, when
justified, through use of variances or other similar tools tailored for
specific purposes.  The Department of City Planning in conjunction with
other City Agencies regulates the division of land into separate lots in
accordance with the State Subdivision Map Act.  The Department also reports
on the acquisition or development of land for public use.















ORGANIZATION










   The CITY PLANNING COMMISSION is composed of nine private citizens who
serve without salary, except for a small attendance fee.  The Planning
Commission is responsible for giving advice and making recommendations to the
Mayor, Council, Director of Planning, and other City departments and agencies
with respect to zoning ordinances, amendments to the General Plan and related
activities, including legislation.  The Commission studies planning policy
matter and makes reports and recommendations to other governmental officers
or agencies as may be necessary to implement and secure compliance with the
General Plan; and performs other functions prescribed by the Charter or
ordinance.  The Commission holds public hearings to hear evidence that forms
the basis of its decisions.










   The AREA PLANNING COMMISSIONS each consist of five private citizens who
serve without salary, except for a small attendance fee.  These commissions
largely serve as appeals boards for actions taken by the Department or the
Zoning Administrator on such matters as, conditional uses and variances. 
When authorized to do so by ordinance, the Area Planning Commissions also act
as original decision makers on some zoning matters and advise the City
Planning Commission and the Department on changes to the General Plan
affecting their geographical areas.  The Commission holds public hearings to
hear evidence that forms the basis of its decisions.










   The DIRECTOR OF PLANNING is the chief administrative officer of the
Department and is responsible for the appointment and removal of all
employees, annual departmental budget preparation and the expenditure of
funds.  The Director is responsible for preparing the General Plan of the
City and amendments to the General Plan; all zoning and other land use
regulations and requirements, including maps of all districts and zones;
investigating and acting on the design and improvement of all subdivisions of
land as the advisory agency under the State Subdivision Map Act; and having
those additional powers and duties as provided by ordinance.  The Director
is assisted by three Deputy Directors who take responsibility for overseeing
the various operations of the Planning Department.  The professional staff
is grouped functionally into the following divisions:










   a.   Three COMMUNITY PLANNING DIVISIONS; the Valley, West/Coastal
and Metro community planning divisions; prepare and revise plans for various
sections of the City and recommend changes in zoning, site plan review
applications and other matters involving specific plans and other special
zoning tools to the Area and City Planning Commissions and the City Council.










   b.   The DEPARTMENT SYSTEMS AND GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION SYSTEM (GIS)
DIVISION is responsible for the orderly development and coordination of
automated equipment and systems applications.  The division is responsible
for developing and maintaining the City’s Zoning Map Automation System
(ZMAS) and the Department’s case tracking system as well as providing
systems and GIS support to the Department.










   c.   The CITYWIDE PLANNING DIVISION prepares and revises the
citywide elements of the General Plan and is responsible for the
Department’s Annual Report on growth and infrastructure.










   d.   The OFFICE OF ZONING ADMINISTRATION is responsible for
investigating and making determinations on all applications for variances
from zoning ordinances, many conditional uses and other special zoning
permits.  A determination made by a Zoning Administrator is final unless
appealed.  Another function of the Office of Zoning Administration is
performed within the Code Studies Section which is responsible for conducting
comprehensive studies resulting in amendments to the Planning and Zoning
Code.  The Office includes the Division of Land, which administers the State
Subdivision Map Act including the processing of applications for tract and
parcel maps as well as other related minor procedures.  The Department’s
environmental review function for private applications is also located in
this division.  The division also operates the  public office located at
201 North Figueroa Street in downtown Los Angeles.










   e.   The ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES DIVISION is responsible for the
administrative management of the Department – handling its accounting,
personnel, and supply needs; providing its general graphics, drafting and
clerical services; assisting the Director of Planning in preparing the
Department’s annual budget requests and providing management information
services.















PROCEDURES










   Requests for action by the Department of City Planning are made in the
form of applications filed at the Department’s two public offices.  At the
time an application is filed and accepted, a fee must be paid by the
applicant dependent on the type of action requested and in accordance with
current fee schedules established by the City Council.  Cases are usually
set for hearing before a Zoning Administrator, hearing officer or one of the
Planning Commissions.  A recommendation to a Planning Commission or a
decision is rendered and distributed.















APPEALS










   In many instances, applicants or persons aggrieved by a decision may
appeal that action.  On matters acted upon by the City Planning Commission,
an appeal may be made to the City Council.  On matters acted upon by a
Zoning Administrator or the Director of Planning, an appeal may be made to
Area Planning Commissions or City Planning Commission as prescribed by law
and, thereafter, in certain cases, to the City Council.  Details on these
and other appealable decisions can be obtained from a Department office. 
For an appeal, the appellant must file an appeal, together with the
appropriate fee imposed by ordinance, at the Department’s public counters.




 



 



 



 



ARTICLE 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS



 



 



Section



11.00   Provisions Applicable to Code.



11.01   Definitions and Interpretation.



11.02   Inconsistent Permits and Licenses.



11.03   Post War Renewal of Licenses of Craftsmen and Others.



11.04   Delinquent Accounts – Uncollectible Cancellation.



11.05   Effect of Renumbering or Redesignation of Provisions or Sections
in Statutes or Codes of the State of California Which Are Referred to in the
Los Angeles Municipal Code.



11.06   Violation of Municipal Ordinances – Citation in Lieu of Taking
Arrested Person Before Magistrate.



11.07   Bad Check Collection Fees.



11.08   City Departments Exempt from Paying Fees or Charges Required by
this Code.



11.09   Administrative Determinations – Notice – Judicial Review.



11.10   Exemptions Relating to the Los Angeles 200th Anniversary
Celebration.



11.11   Use of the Metric System of Measure as an Alternative System of
Measurement.



11.12   Summary of Fees for Bureau of Engineering Services Provided
Pursuant to the Provisions of this Chapter.



11.13   Recommendation, Action or Approval by the Community Redevelopment
Agency of the City of Los Angeles (CRA/LA), a Designated Local Authority
Successor to the Community Redevelopment Agency of the City of Los Angeles
(CRA/LA-DLA).



 



 



SEC. 11.00.  PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO CODE.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 175,676, Eff. 1/11/04.)



 



   (a)   Short Title.  Reference to Code in Prosecutions. 
Designation in Ordinances.  This Code, which consists of criminal or
regulatory ordinances of this City, shall be known as the “Official Los
Angeles Municipal Code,” and it shall be sufficient to refer to the Code as
the “Los Angeles Municipal Code” in any prosecution for the violation of
any of its provisions; it shall also be sufficient to designate any ordinance
adding to, amending or repealing this Code or a portion of this Code as an
addition or amendment to or a repeal of the “Los Angeles Municipal Code.”



 



   (b)   Existing Law Continued.  The provisions of this Code, to the
extent they are substantially the same as existing provisions relating to the
same subject matter, shall be construed as restatements and continuations of
the Code and not as new enactments.



 



   (c)   Construction.  The provisions of this Code and all
proceedings under it are to be construed with a view to effect its objectives
and to promote justice.



 



   (d)   Effect of Code on Past Actions and Obligations Previously
Accrued.  Neither the adoption of this Code nor the repeal of any ordinance
of this City shall in any manner affect the prosecution for violation of
ordinances, which violations were committed prior to the effective date of
the ordinance, nor be construed as a waiver of any license or penalty at the
effective date due and unpaid under the ordinance, nor be construed as
affecting any of the provisions of the ordinance relating to the collection
of any license or penalty or the penal provisions applicable to any
violation, nor to affect the validity of any bond or cash deposit in lieu of
a bond, required to be posted, filed or deposited pursuant to any ordinance
or its violation, and all rights and obligations associated with the
ordinance shall continue in full force and effect.



 



   (e)   References to Specific Ordinances.  The provisions of this
Code shall not in any manner affect deposits or other matters of record which
refer to, or are otherwise connected with ordinances that are specially
designated by a number or otherwise and which are included within this Code,
but those references shall be construed to apply to the corresponding
provisions contained within this Code.



 



   (f)   Heading, Effect of.  Division, chapter, article and section
headings contained in this Code shall not be deemed to govern, limit, modify
or in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division, chapter, article or section.



 



   (g)   Reference to Acts or Omissions Within This City.  This Code
shall refer only to the omission or commission of acts within the territorial
limits of the City of Los Angeles and that territory outside of this City
over which the City has jurisdiction or control by virtue of the
Constitution, Charter or any law, or by reason of ownership or control of
property.



 



   (h)   Proof of Notice.  Proof of giving any notice may be made by
the certificate of any officer or employee of this City or by affidavit of
any person over the age of 18 years, which shows service in conformity with
this Code or other provisions of law applicable to the subject matter
concerned.



 



   (i)   Notices, Service of.  Whenever a notice is required to be
given under this Code, unless different provisions in this Code are otherwise
specifically made applicable, the notice may be given either by personal
delivery to the person to be notified or by deposit in the United States Mail
in a sealed envelope, postage prepaid, addressed to the person to be notified
at his or her last known business or residence address as it appears in the
public records or other records pertaining to the matter to which the notice
is directed.  Service by mail shall be deemed to have been completed at the
time of deposit in the mail.



 



   (j)   Prohibited Acts; Include Causing, Permitting, Suffering. 
Whenever in this Code any act or omission is made unlawful it shall include
causing, permitting, aiding, abetting, suffering or concealing the fact of
the act or omission.



 



   (k)   Validity of Code.  If any section, subsection, sentence,
clause, phrase or portion of this Code is for any reason held to be invalid
or unconstitutional by the decision of any court of competent jurisdiction,
that decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this
Code.  The Council of this City hereby declares that it would have adopted
this Code and each section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion
of the Code, irrespective of the fact that any one portion or more sections,
subsections clauses, phrases or portions are declared invalid or
unconstitutional.



 



   (l)   In addition to any other remedy or penalty provided by this
Code, any violation of any provision of this Code is declared to be a public
nuisance and may be abated by the City or by the City Attorney on behalf of
the people of the State of California as a nuisance by means of a restraining
order, injunction or any other order or judgment in law or equity issued by a
court of competent jurisdiction.  The City or the City Attorney, on behalf
of the people of the State of California, may seek injunctive relief to
enjoin violations of, or to compel compliance with, the provisions of this
Code or seek any other relief or remedy available at law or equity. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.)



 



   Violations of this Code are deemed continuing violations and each day
that a violation continues is deemed to be a new and separate offense and
subject to a maximum civil penalty of $2,500 for each and every offense.



 



   As part of any civil action, the court may require posting of a
performance bond to ensure compliance with this Code, applicable state codes,
court order or judgment.



 



   (m)   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision
or fail to comply with any of the requirements of this Code.  Any person
violating any of the provisions or failing to comply with any of the
mandatory requirements of this Code, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor unless
that violation or failure is declared in this Code to be an infraction.  An
infraction shall be tried and be punishable as provided in Section 19.6 of
the Penal Code and the provisions of this section.  Any violation of this
Code that is designated as a misdemeanor, may be charged by the City Attorney
as either a misdemeanor or an infraction.



 



   Every violation of this Code is punishable as a misdemeanor unless
provision is otherwise made, and shall be punishable by a fine of not more
than $1,000.00 or by imprisonment in the County Jail for a period of not more
than six months, or by both a fine and imprisonment.



 



   Every violation of this Code that is established as an infraction, or
is charged as an infraction, is punishable by a fine as set forth in this
Code section, or as otherwise provided in this Code, not to exceed $250.00
for each violation.



 



   Violations of this Code may be addressed through the use of an
Administrative Citation as set forth in Article 1.2 of Chapter 1 of this
Code.  The administrative fines prescribed by Chapter 1, Article 1.2 may be
sought as an alternative to other legally available civil and criminal
remedies.  (Amended by Ord. No. 184,766, Eff. 3/27/17.)



 



   Each person shall be guilty of a separate offense for each and every
day during any portion of which any violation of any provision of this Code
is committed, continued or permitted by that person, and shall be punishable
accordingly.



 



   (n)   Pursuant to Government Code Section 38773, the City may
summarily abate any nuisance at the expense of the persons creating, causing,
committing, or maintaining it and the expense of the abatement of the
nuisance may be a lien against the property on which it is maintained and a
personal obligation against the property owner.



 



   (o)   Pursuant to Government Code Section 38773.7, upon entry of a
second or subsequent civil or criminal judgment within a two-year period that
finds an owner of property responsible for a condition that may be abated in
accordance with California Government Code Section 38773.5, a court may order
the owner to pay treble the costs of the abatement.  These costs shall not
include conditions abated pursuant to California Health and Safety Code
Section 17980.



 



 



SEC. 11.01.  DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION.



 



   (a)   The following words and phrases whenever used in this Code
shall be construed as defined in this section unless from the context a
different meaning is intended, or unless a different meaning is specifically
defined and more particularly directed to the use of such words or phrases:



 



   “City” shall mean the area within the territorial city limits of
the City of Los Angeles and such territory outside of this City over which
the City has jurisdiction or control by virtue of any Constitutional or
Charter provision, or any law, “Council” shall mean the City Council of
this City. “Oath” includes affirmation.



 



   "Find" or "Finding" shall mean a written finding.  (Added by Ord. No.
182,095, Eff. 5/7/12.)



 



   “Health Department” or “Department of Health,” after 6/30/64,
shall mean the Los Angeles County Health Department. (Added by Ord. No.
127,508, Eff. 6/29/64.)



 



   “Health Officer” or “Health Authority” or “Board of Health
Commissioners,” after 6/30/64, shall mean the County Health Officer of the
County of Los Angeles, or his duly authorized representative (Added by Ord.
No. 127,508, Eff. 6/29/64.)



 



   “Office”.  The use of the title of any officer, employee, or any
office or ordinance or Charter shall mean such officer, employee, office,
ordinance or Charter of the City of Los Angeles unless otherwise specifically
designated.



 



   “Person” shall mean natural person, joint venture, joint stock
company, partnership, association, club, company, corporation, business
trust, or organization, or the manager, lessee, agent, servant, officer or
employee of any of them.



 



   “Planning Committee” shall mean the Planning and Land Use
Management Committee of the City Council. (Added by Ord. No. 164,740, Eff.
5/27/89, Oper. 7/1/89.)



 



   “Shall” and “May.”  “Shall” is mandatory; “May” is
permissive.



 



   “Street” shall include all streets, highways, avenues lanes,
alleys, courts places, squares, curbs or other public ways in this City which
have been or may hereafter he dedicated and open to public use, or such other
public property so designated in any law of this State.



 



   There is nothing in the context of the Los Angeles Municipal Code...
which justifies holding that the word streets is used therein to designate a
“roadway” exclusive of is sidewalks.  Unless it is associated with
language restricting its meaning, the term street in its ordinary
acceptation, includes sidewalks.



   People v. Noble. Cr.A 1498.



 



   See also Note 11(a) 44 C.J. p 883; Bonnett v San Francisco, 65 Cal 230;
Marini v. Graham, 67 Cal l30, 132; Ex parte Taylor, 87 Cal. 91, 94;
Vanderhurst v. Tholcke, 113 Cal. 147, 150.



 



   “Written” shall include printed, typewritten, mimeographed or
multigraphed.



 



   (b)   Grammatical Interpretation.



 



   “Genders.”  Any gender includes the other genders.



 



   “Singular and Plural.”  The singular number includes the plural,
and the plural, the singular.



 



   “Tenses.”  Words used in the present tense include the past and
future tenses and vice versa



 



   “Use of Words and Phrases.”  Words and phrases used in this Code
and not specifically defined shall be construed according to the context and
approved usage of the language



 



   (c)   Civil Code Provisions.  The provisions of Sections 13 and
1645 of the Civil Code of the State of California are hereby adopted in the
interpretation of words and phrases, unless otherwise provided herein.



 



 



SEC. 11.02.  INCONSISTENT PERMITS AND LICENSES.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 134,358, Eff. 6/8/67.)



 



   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Code or any other
ordinance of the City of Los Angeles, no permit or license shall be issued in
violation of any provisions of this Code or any other ordinance of the City
of Los Angeles; if any permit or license is issued in violation of any
provision of this Code or any other ordinance of the City of Los Angeles the
same shall be void. Any permit or license issued, which purports to authorize
the doing of any act prohibited by any other provision of this Code or any
other ordinance of the City of Los Angeles, shall be void. Provided, however,
that upon publication of a zone change, height district or building line
ordinance the Superintendent of Building may issue a permit for a building or
structure which will comply with all of the requirements of the new zone,
height district or building line. No such permit shall be issued unless the
applicant has first executed and filed with the Superintendent of Building a
notarized agreement assuming all risk and agreeing to remove all buildings or
structures authorized by the permit in the event the zone change, height
district or building line ordinance should become effective.



 



 



SEC. 11.03.  POST WAR RENEWAL OF LICENSES OF CRAFTSMEN AND OTHERS.



 



   (a)   Whenever by any provision of this Code, any license, permit or
certificate of qualification is required for carrying on any business, trade,
craft, profession or occupation and as a prerequisite the issuance thereof
any examination fee shall be required in any case where the applicant for the
license, permit or certificate was previously the holder of a similar one,
provided the applicant shows that his failure to renew the former license,
permit or certificate, or to keep it in full force and effect, resulted from
his induction or entrance into the armed forces of the United States or of
any allied nation, and provided the application for renewal is made within
six months after the applicant’s honorable discharge from service, and
provided proof satisfactory to the issuing board or officer of the city is
furnished by the applicant that he has not been physically or mentally
incapacitated to properly carry on the business, trade, craft, profession or
occupation in question.



 



   (b)   Whenever, as to any such license, permit or certificate of
qualification, a fee is charged both for the original issuance and for the
annual renewal thereof, any application made as provided in Subsection (a)
shall be deemed an application for a renewal, and the current renewal fee
only shall be charged therefor, to be prorated for the unexpired portion of
the license year; except that in no case shall the required renewal fee be
less than $1.00.



 



   (c)   This section shall be construed to apply as to licenses
required under Article I of Chapter 2 of this Code.



 



 



SEC. 11.04.  DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS – UNCOLLECTIBLE CANCELLATION.



   (Added by Ord. No. 107,216, Eff. 5/5/56.)



 



   If any board, commission, or head of any department finds that any
money is due, or believed to be due the City as and for fees for permits, or
resulting from the issuance of any permit, or as the result of the
contemplated issuance of a permit, or resulting from any services performed
by the City at the special instance and request of the debtor, or resulting
from any act of the debtor, and is uncollectible, or that efforts to collect
any such sum would be disproportionately costly with relation to the probable
outcome of the collecting efforts, such board, commission, or head of a
department, may prepare a report setting forth the findings and reasons
therefor and submit said findings and reasons to a Board of Review consisting
of the Controller, the City Treasurer and the City Attorney, or the duly
appointed representative of each. Upon unanimous approval of the findings by
the Board of Review, the board, commission or head of the department
concerned, may remove from the active accounts receivable of such board,
commission or department any unpaid sum owing, or believed to be owing to the
City from any person, when the account involved is less than the sum of
$1000.00. If the report relates to an obligation or claim owing, or believed
to be owing to the City, which amounts to $1000.00 or more, the Board of
Review shall make its recommendations upon the findings, and if the Board of
Review unanimously approved the findings it shall submit them to the Council
together with the findings of the Board, Commission or head of a department.
If the Board of Review does not unanimously approve the findings, the matter
shall be returned to the board, commission or head of the department. Upon
the approval of the findings by the Council, the board, commission or head of
the department concerned may remove from the active accounts receivable the
amount so approved. The removal from the active accounts receivable of any
board, commission or head of a department of any unpaid obligation as
hereinabove provided, shall not preclude the City from collection or
attempting to collect any such sum that later proves to be collectible.
Should any such sum so owing to the City not be collected within the period
of the Statute of Limitations of the State of California, and applicable to
any such obligation, then the board, commission or head of a department may 
write off and cancel said obligation. (Amended by Ord. No. 157,016, Eff.
9/24/82.)



 



 



SEC. 11.05.  EFFECT OF RENUMBERING OR REDESIGNATION OF PROVISIONS OR
SECTIONS IN STATUTES OR CODES OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA WHICH ARE REFERRED
TO IN THE LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE.



   (Added by Ord. No. 116,431, Eff. 7/30/60.)



 



   Whenever in this Code reference is made to any designation or numbered
provision of any Statute or Code of the State of California, such reference
shall be deemed to be to such provision or section as it may be redesignated
or renumbered from time to time by act of the Legislature of the State of
California in amending or recodifying such Statute, Code or provision or
section thereof, to the extent that by such legislative act the intent and
meaning of the provision or section remains substantially unchanged.



 



 



SEC. 11.06.  VIOLATION OF MUNICIPAL ORDINANCES – CITATION IN LIEU OF
TAKING ARRESTED PERSON BEFORE MAGISTRATE.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 142,214, Eff. 8/23/71.)



 



   (a)   In any case in which a person is arrested for the violation of
any provision of this Code, or any ordinance of this City, by a regularly
appointed, salaried officer of the Los Angeles Police Department, or by any
peace officer, and such person does not demand to be taken before a
magistrate, such arresting officer may prepare a written notice to appear and
release the person on his promise to appear, as prescribed by Chapter 5C
(commencing with Section 853.6) of the Penal Code. The provision of such
chapter shall thereafter apply with reference to any proceeding based upon
the issuance of a written notice to appear pursuant to this authority.



 



   (b)   In any case in which a person is arrested for the violation of
any provision of this Code, or any ordinance of this City, by any officer or
employee of this City who is not a peace officer, but who has been authorized
by ordinance pursuant to Penal Code Section 836.5 to make such arrests, and
such person does not demand to be taken before a magistrate, such arresting
officer or employee shall prepare a written notice to appear and release the
person on his promise to appear as prescribed by Chapter 5C (commencing with
Section 853.6) of the Penal Code. The provisions of such code shall
thereafter apply with reference to any proceeding based upon the issuance of
a written notice to appear pursuant to this authority.



 



 



SEC. 11.07.  BAD CHECK COLLECTION FEES.



   (Added by Ord. No. 124,508, Eff. 6/6/63.)



 



   (a)   (Amended by Ord. No. 143,860, Eff. 10/30/72.)  Whenever any
person pays any fee, charge, deposit, or amount due the City by check, and
said check proves to be non-negotiable or is unhonored, the following fee can
be charged to and collected from such person in addition to the full amount
of the fee, charge, deposit, or amount otherwise due:



 



   $10.00 for each nonnegotiable or unhonored check. (Amended by Ord. No.
157,613, Eff. 5/26/83.)



 



   $25.00 per hour or fraction thereof for any investigation which is made
necessary in order to collect or receive an money due after seven calendar
days from the date said check was received.



 



   EXCEPTIONS:



 



   1.   Any department, division, office or bureau of this City may, by
resolution of its board of commissioners, or if none, by order of its general
manager, decline to enforce the provisions of this section with respect to
those fees, charges deposits, or other amounts which it has the duty of
collecting if it determines that collection of the fees provided for in this
section is unreasonable or unnecessary. The controller shall be promptly
notified of each such action.



 



   2.   The chief accounting employee of each department, division,
office or bureau of this City enforcing this section may waive the fees
provided for herein if he determines that such fees are not collectible
without unreasonable cost to the City, and the full amount of all fees,
charges, deposits, or other amounts for which the non-negotiable or unhonored
check has been written has been collected. The Controller shall be promptly
notified of each such action. (Amended by Ord. No. 157,202, Eff. 12/11/82.)



 



   (b)   This section shall not apply to checks which are returned or
unhonored due solely to acknowledged bank error and the check is made good
within three days after its original return.



 



   (c)   Any person who presents a non-negotiable or unhonored check in
payment of fees or charges established by this Code may be placed on a
cash-only payment basis by the enforcing department, office, division or
bureau for that payment and future payments. (Amended by Ord. No. 157,613,
Eff. 5/26/83.)



 



   (d)   All fees imposed and collected under the provisions of this
section shall be deposited in the General Fund.



 



   (e)   There shall be no implementation of Exceptions 1 or 2 of this
section unless the concerned department head has approved and caused to be
filed and kept current with the Controller a statement of departmental
policies and procedures wherein collection of fees under this section shall
not be required and may be waived. The procedures shall require that the
department head notify the Controller in each instance of any waiver of fee
and identify in that notice to the Controller the specific policy or
procedure applicable in the instance involved.  (Amended by Ord. No.
157,202, Eff. 12/11/82.)



 



 



SEC. 11.08.  CITY DEPARTMENTS EXEMPT FROM PAYING FEES OR CHARGES REQUIRED BY
THIS CODE.



 



   (a)   Notwithstanding any other Provision of this Code to the
contrary, no budgetary department, bureau or office of the City shall pay any
fee or charge required by this Code for any license or permit, or for the
performance of any official service provided for in this Code; nor shall any
fee or charge otherwise imposed by this Code be required in connection with
the relocation or restoration of buildings or structures determined pursuant
to Article 5 of Chapter 7 of Division 22 of the Los Angeles Administrative
Code to be historical or cultural monuments, and which have been, or are in
the process of being, permanently located at a site or facility approved by
the City Council for the purposes of preserving, maintaining, and exhibiting
such monuments. (Amended by Ord. No. 147,994, Eff. 2/21/76. )



 



   (b)   This section shall not apply to any department, bureau or
office of this City which has control of its own funds, except the Library
and Recreation and Parks Departments; or to fees or charges which are
reimbursable from any of the following Funds: Revolving, Trust, Bond or
Capital Improvement Projects.



 



   (c)   In order to receive such exemption, however, an such exempt
departments, bureaus or offices shall attach to each permit or license
application a written certification signed by the administrative head of the
department, bureau or office that such permit or license is not to be
reimbursed from a Revolving, Trust, Bond or Capital Improvement Project Fund.
Provided further that any permittee or license exempt under the provisions of
Section (a) hereof because such permit or license is sought in connection
with the relocation or restoration of buildings or structures determined to
be cultural or historical monuments, as provided for herein, shall attach to
each permit or license application a written certification by the Cultural
Heritage Board that such building or structure is a cultural or historical
monument and is being relocated to or improved upon a site or facility
approved by the City Council for the purposes of preserving, maintaining and
exhibiting such monuments. (Amended by Ord. No. 147,994, Eff. 2/21/76.)



 



 



SEC. 11.09.  ADMINISTRATIVE DETERMINATIONS – NOTICE – JUDICIAL REVIEW.



 



   The provisions of Section 1094.6 of the Code of Civil Procedure of the
State of California shall be applicable in the City of Los Angeles to
decisions by the City, or by any officer, employee, board, commission or
other agency of the City. As used in this section, “decision” means an
adjudicatory administrative decision made, after hearing, suspending,
demoting, or dismissing an officer or employee, revoking or denying an
application for a permit or a license, or denying an application for any
retirement benefit or allowance. (Added by Ord. No. 152,078, Eff. 4/22/79.)



 



 



SEC. 11.10.  EXEMPTIONS RELATING TO THE LOS ANGELES 200TH ANNIVERSARY
CELEBRATION.



 



   (a)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code to the
contrary, no non-profit organization heretofore established to plan the Los
Angeles 200th Anniversary Celebration, and formally so recognized by the City
of Los Angeles, shall pay any fee or charge required by this Code for any
license or permit required in connection with the Los Angeles 200th
Anniversary Celebration. (Added by Ord. No. 154,677, Eff. 12/29/80.)



 



 



SEC. 11.11.  USE OF THE METRIC SYSTEM OF MEASURE AS AN ALTERNATIVE SYSTEM OF
MEASUREMENT



   (Added by Ord. No. 171,464, Eff. 2/6/97.)



 



   (a)   Scope.  This section shall apply to any activity or work of
any Bureau or Department of the City engaged in administering or enforcing
any City ordinances, State or Federal enactments or any regulations where
units of distance, weight or force are used in any regulatory, enforcement,
design or control activity or posting of limits.



 



   (b)   Use of Metric System of Measure Authorized.



 



   1.   Notwithstanding any provision of this Code to the contrary,
commencing with the effective date of this ordinance, any Bureau or
Department of the City may use the metric system of measure in enforcing any
enactments, statutes, ordinances, codes or regulations subject to its
jurisdiction; provided, however, that such use is not contrary to any
applicable State of California  or Federal regulations or enactments.



 



   2.   The metric system of measure authorized by this section is that
system of units and measurements defined and described in the Federal Metric
Conversion Act of 1975 (15 U.S.C. 2056) and commonly referred to as the
‘System Internationale d’Unites’.



 



   3.   It is intended that whenever any City code or ordinance
contains an Imperial unit of measure that the equivalent unit in metric
measure may be used and that the conversion shall be made using nationally
recognized conversion factors.  Where metric units are used, all metric
values shall be direct conversions of the values expressed in the official
enactment, ordinance, code or regulation.  In the case of linear
measurements, conversion shall be based on the Standard U.S. Survey Foot
defined as 0.3048006 parts of a meter.  Converted values may be rounded to a
reasonable number of decimal places; provided however that no such rounding
shall result in any increase in any fee collected or dedication or taking of
land, any increase in any upper or lower limit of speed or any reduction in
any standard of minimum clearance.



 



   (c)   Public Notice.  Prior to commencing the use of the metric
system of measure a public notice of intent to do so shall be approved by the
governing officer or body of the Department.  The notice shall identify the
Department or Bureau proposing the use of the metric system of values and
shall enumerate the provisions containing the numeric values and measurements
that will be converted.  The notice shall further state whether or not a
dual system of measurement will be permitted.  After approval by the
Department, the notice shall be transmitted to the City Council which may
approve or disapprove the notice by resolution.  After approval by the City
Council the notice shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation
for a period not less than 30 days or for such longer period as may be
applicable where a longer notice period is specified for an amendment to any
code.



 



 



SEC. 11.12.  SUMMARY OF FEES FOR BUREAU OF ENGINEERING SERVICES PROVIDED
PURSUANT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THIS CHAPTER.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 184,718, Eff. 3/4/17.)



 



   The following table is a summary of fees for Bureau of Engineering
services provided pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter.  If there is
any discrepancy between the provisions of this summary and the Sections of
this Code imposing the fees, the provisions of the Sections of this Code
imposing the fees shall prevail.  Additional charges may be imposed pursuant
to the provisions of Sections 61.14 and 61.15 of this Code.



 



 



Permit / Service Description
 
LAMC Section
 

Fee



Highway dedication investigation [1]
 
12.37 F.1.
 

$546



Highway dedication processing [1]
 
12.37 F.2.
 

$3,193



Survey monument bond processing [1]
 
17.07 E.3.
 

$443



Private street name processing [1]
 
18.09 G.2.
 

$4,326



Tentative subdivision map < 20 lots [1] [2]
 
19.02 A.1.(g)
 

$8,240



Tentative subdivision map ≥ 20 lots [1] [2]
 
19.02 A.1.(g)
 

Actual



Modification or revision of tentative subdivision map [1] [2]
 
19.02 A.1.(g)
 

$1,854



Final subdivision map < 20 lots [1] [2]
 
19.02 A.2.(a)
 

$8,240



Final subdivision map ≥ 20 lots [1] [2]
 
19.02 A.2.(a)
 

Actual



Final subdivision map airspace subdivision [1] [2]
 
19.02 A.2.(a)
 

Actual



Final subdivision map Very High Fire Hazard Severity Zone surcharge [1] [2]
 
19.02 A.2.(b)
 

50%



Final subdivision map resubmission [1] [2]
 
19.02 A.2.(c)
 

$824



Final subdivision map reversion to acreage surcharge [1] [2]
 
19.02 A.2.(d)
 

$2,549



Preliminary parcel map [1] [2]
 
19.02 B.1.(f)
 

$8,240



Preliminary parcel map revision or modification [1] [2]
 
19.02 B.1.(f)
 

$824



Parcel map exemption [1] [2]
 
19.02 B.1.(f)
 

$1,262



Certificate of compliance [1] [2]
 
19.02 B.2.
 

$1,262



Final parcel map [1] [2]
 
19.02 B.3.(a)
 

$8,240



Final parcel map airspace subdivision [1] [2]
 
19.02 B.3.(a)
 

Actual



Final parcel map Very High Fire Hazard Severity Zone surcharge [1] [2]
 
19.02 B.3.(b)
 

50%



Final parcel map resubmission [1] [2]
 
19.02 B.3.(c)
 

$824



Final parcel map reversion to acreage surcharge [1] [2]
 
19.02 B.3.(d)
 

$1,854



Final parcel map waiver [1] [2]
 
19.02 B.3.(e)
 

$1,262



Private street map [1] [2]
 
19.02 C.1.(c)
 

$6,304



Private street map revision or modification [1] [2]
 
19.02 C.1.(c)
 

$630



Flood hazard compliance basic review [1] [2]
 
19.07 A.
 

$273



Elevation certificate processing [1] [2]
 
19.07 A.
 

$273



Floodproofing certificate processing [1] [2]
 
19.07 A.
 

$273



Letter of map change / conditional letter of map change processing [1] [2]
 
19.07 A.
 

$273



Flood hazard compliance additional review up to 16 hours [1] [2]
 
19.07 B.
 

$149/hour



Flood hazard compliance additional review more than 16 hours [1] [2]
 
19.07 C.
 

Actual





 



Footnotes:




   [1]   A surcharge of 7% or $1, whichever is greater, will be added
to the listed fee pursuant to LAMC Section 61.03.





   [2]   A surcharge of 3% or $1, whichever is greater, will be added
to the listed fee pursuant to LAMC Section 19.08.  The surcharge shall be
returned to 2% or $1, whichever is greater, when the cost of BuildLA is
recovered under LAMC Section 19.08.  (Amended by Ord. No. 184,548, Eff.
12/11/16.)




 



 



SEC. 11.13.  RECOMMENDATION, ACTION OR APPROVAL BY THE COMMUNITY
REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY OF THE CITY OF LOS ANGELES (CRA/LA), A DESIGNATED LOCAL
AUTHORITY SUCCESSOR TO THE COMMUNITY REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY OF THE CITY OF LOS
ANGELES (CRA/LA-DLA).



   (Added by Ord. No. 186,325, Eff. 11/11/19.)



 



   As of the effective date of this ordinance, the City shall review and
take action regarding any Redevelopment Plan Amendment or land use approval
or entitlement pursuant to Section 11.5.14 and other applicable provisions of
this Code.  Notwithstanding any contrary provision of this Code, the
Community Redevelopment Law, the Redevelopment Regulations, or any applicable
specific plan, supplemental use district, or other land use regulation
adopted by the City, the City shall not be required to consult with or
provide notice to the former Community Redevelopment Agency of the City of
Los Angeles (CRA/LA) or the CRA/LA, a Designated Local Authority Successor to
the Community Redevelopment Agency of the City of Los Angeles (CRA/LA-DLA). 
In addition, CRA/LA-DLA shall have no further authority or responsibility to
perform related land use functions including, but not limited to: preparing
staff reports pertaining to land use decisions; making findings; making
interpretations; imposing conditions; making recommendations; reviewing,
granting or denying land use approvals or entitlements; hearing appeals;
and/or amending Redevelopment Regulations.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 1.2
ADMINISTRATIVE CITATIONS



 




(Added by Ord. No. 182,610, Eff. 8/2/13.)




 



 



Section



11.2.01   Purpose and Intent.



11.2.02   Definitions.



11.2.03   Issuance of Administrative Citation.



11.2.04   Administrative Fines.



11.2.05   Service Procedures.



11.2.06   Contents of Administrative Citation.



11.2.07   Satisfaction of the Administrative Citation.



11.2.08   Appeal of the Administrative Citation.



11.2.09   Administrative Hearing.



11.2.10   Right to Judicial Review.



11.2.11   Failure to Pay Administrative Fines and Costs.



11.2.12   Deposit of Monies Collected.



11.2.13   Severability.



 



 



SEC. 11.2.01.  PURPOSE AND INTENT.



 



   (a)   The City Council of the City of Los Angeles finds that there
is a need for an alternative method of enforcement for violations of this
Code, applicable statutory provisions, ordinances, uniform codes adopted by
the City, orders issued by a commission, board, hearing officer, or other
body authorized to issue orders, and any conditions or requirements imposed
on or by any entitlement, permit, or environmental document issued or
approved by the City.



 



   (b)   The City Council finds and determines that an administrative
citation program (the Program) is an effective alternative method of
enforcement for these violations.



 



   (c)   The primary purpose and intent of the City Council, through
the adoption of this Article, is to create an alternative method of problem
resolution and enforcement that:



 



   1.   Fosters timely compliance with the law in order to protect
public health, safety and welfare;



 



   2.   Provides for the fair, efficient and effective administration
of justice;



 



   3.   Provides an administrative process that openly and fairly
allows for the appeal and review of Administrative Citations and fines
imposed;



 



   4.   Minimizes the delay and expense of Code enforcement through the
only currently available options of criminal prosecution and civil
litigation; and



 



   5.   Deters the use of dilatory and frivolous challenges to
Administrative Violations and facilitate the prompt collection of fines.



 



   (d)   The procedures established in this Article shall be an
alternative to criminal, civil and any other legal enforcement remedies
provided in this Code.  Issuance of an Administrative Citation shall not be
deemed a waiver of any other enforcement remedies provided in this Code. 
The selection of issuing an Administrative Citation or another enforcement
remedy provided in this Code lies within the sole discretion of the Issuing
Department and, as applicable, by the City Attorney, and shall be consistent
with the purpose and intent of this Article.  (Amended by Ord. No. 184,766,
Eff. 3/27/17.)



 



   (e)   It is the intent of the City Council that this Administrative
Citation Enforcement Program be implemented as a pilot program and in a
phased manner.  Accordingly, the City Attorney is requested to work with the
various departments of the City that have responsibility for enforcing Code
provisions and addressing Code violations and are authorized to participate
in the Program to implement the Program in the most effective manner to
address quality of life issues and to provide training and other preparation
in the issuance of Administrative Citations and the process of enforcing
them.  The phased implementation of the Program shall begin with the Police
Department and the Animal Services Department, and the Program may thereafter
be implemented one department at a time with the Housing Department and
Building and Safety Department being next in order.  Prior to proposing the
implementation of the Program in the latter two departments, the City
Attorney will report to the City Council regarding the implementation of the
Program in the Police Department and the Animal Services Department, the
experience with and results of the Program, and any recommendations for
modifying the Program, and a list of the primary Code sections that will be
enforced through the Program by each department.  The Housing Department,
Building and Safety Department, and other City Departments may be added to
the Program with the prior approval of the City Council.  The City Attorney
will report quarterly to the Council on the implementation of the Program,
the experience with and results of the Program, and any recommendations for
modifying the Program, and, for information purposes only, a list of the
primary Code sections that will be enforced through the Program by each
department.  Prior to the end of the third year after implementation of the
Program, the City Administrative Officer (CAO) shall report to the City
Council on the implementation and progress of the Program, and thereafter the
Council will determine whether to continue or end the Program.



 



 



SEC. 11.2.02.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   For purposes of this Article, the following words and phrases are
defined:



 



   "Administrative Citation" means a notice of Administrative Violation
issued by an Enforcement Officer.



 



   "Administrative Costs" means all direct and indirect costs incurred as
a result of an Administrative Citation hearing, including, but not limited
to, reasonable attorney fees, and costs relating to the initial review,
scheduling, and processing of the administrative hearing.



 



   "Administrative Fine" means the fine or penalty imposed on the
Responsible Person for an Administrative Violation.



 



   "Administrative Hearing Officer" means an independent neutral
decision-maker designated by the City as set forth in this Article, such as
pro tem judges provided by the Los Angeles Superior Court, Administrative Law
Judges as defined by the State of California, and individuals trained in
dispute resolution with a minimum of 25 hours of classroom and practical
training and experience performing duties related to mediation and conflict
resolution in accordance with the requirements of the California Dispute
Resolution Programs Act of 1986 (16 CCR Section 3622), who shall be subject
to disqualification for bias, prejudice, conflict, or any other reason for
which a judicial hearing officer may be disqualified.  Administrative
Hearing Officers shall not be City employees.



 



   "Administrative Violation" means any violation of this Code, applicable
statutory provisions, ordinances, uniform codes adopted by the City, orders
issued by a commission, board, hearing officer, or other body authorized to
issue orders, or any conditions or requirements imposed on or by any
entitlement, permit, or environmental document issued or approved by the City.



 



   "Continuing Violation" means any Administrative Violation pertaining to
a condition or matter, including but not limited to building, plumbing,
electrical, or other structural or zoning matter that does not create an
imminent hazard to health or safety. A Continuing Violation does not include
an Administrative Violation that can be corrected by the Responsible Party
through the immediate cessation or discontinuation of any prohibited activity
or by the immediate implementation of a required activity as determined by
the Issuing Department. (Amended by Ord. No. 183,272, Eff. 11/14/14.)



 



   "Enforcement Costs" means all direct and indirect costs incurred by the
Issuing Department in investigating, inspecting, or abating any
Administrative Violation, including, but not limited to, noncompliance fees
as specified in Section 98.0411 and costs incurred in preparing for and
attending an Administrative Citation hearing.



 



   "Enforcement Officer" means any police officer, inspector, or other
employee or agent of the City having the power to enforce any Administrative
Violation, including Enforcement Officers of non-City entities that have the
authority to perform such enforcement through cooperation agreements with the
LAPD or other City Departments.



 



   "Issuing Department" means the City department or office that has
authority and responsibility for enforcing Administrative Violations subject
to an Administrative Citation, including non-City entities that have the
authority to perform such enforcement through cooperation agreements with the
LAPD or other City Departments.



 



   "Minor" means any person under the age of eighteen years.



 



   "Responsible Person" means any person, as defined in Section 11.01(a),
who is any of the following:



 



   1.   A person who causes or materially contributes to the causation
of an Administrative Violation;



 



   2.   A person who maintains or allows an Administrative Violation to
continue by his or her action or inaction;



 



   3.   A person whose agent, employee, or independent contractor
causes or materially contributes to the causation of an Administrative
Violation;



 



   4.   An on-site manager of a business who is responsible for the
activities occurring at the premises where an Administrative Violation occurs;



 



   5.   A trustee or other person who is given the legal authority to
manage property on behalf of someone else where an Administrative Violation
occurs;



 



   6.   A person who is a parent or guardian having custody and control
of a Minor who contributes to the causation of an Administrative Violation;



 



   7.   A person who is the owner of, or who exercises control over, or
any lessee or sub lessee with the current right of possession of, real
property where a property related Administrative Violation occurs.



 



 



SEC. 11.2.03.  ISSUANCE OF ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION.



 



   (a)   Except as provided in Subsection (b) of this Section, whenever
an Enforcement Officer determines that an Administrative Violation has
occurred, the Enforcement Officer is authorized to issue an Administrative
Citation to the Responsible Person(s).  If the Responsible Person is a
Minor, the Enforcement Officer is authorized to issue an Administrative
Citation to the parent(s) or guardian(s) having custody and control of the
Minor.  Notification of the Administrative Violation to the holder of any
lease, mortgage, deed of trust, or other encumbrance of record shall conform
to the policies and procedures established by the City Attorney's Office.



 



   (b)   When the Administrative Violation pertains to a Continuing
Violation, a reasonable period of time to correct the Administrative
Violation must be afforded to the Responsible Person prior to imposing an
Administrative Fine.  If the Administrative Violation is remedied prior to
the expiration of the correction period, no Administrative Fine shall be
imposed.  However, the Responsible Person shall remain liable for and shall
pay the Enforcement Costs associated with the Administrative Violation.



 



   (c)   Each Administrative Violation shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense subject to an Administrative Fine, as provided for in this
Article.  Each and every day an Administrative Violation exists shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense subject to an Administrative Fine,
as provided for in this Article.



 



 



SEC. 11.2.04.  ADMINISTRATIVE FINES.



 



   (a)   The amount of the Administrative Fine shall be ascertained by
the Enforcement Officer, in accordance with the Administrative Fine schedules
set forth in Subsection (b) of this Section, subject to the following
limitations:



 



   1.   For those Code sections that include the penalty of an
infraction, an Administrative Violation issued instead of an infraction shall
provide for an Administrative Fine that does not exceed the maximum fine set
forth in this Code for that infraction.  If the amount of the fine for the
infraction is not specified in this Code, the amount of the Administrative
Fine shall not exceed the maximum fine provided for in Subdivisions (b) and
(c) of Section 36900 of the California Government Code.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 184,766, Eff. 3/27/17.)



 



   2.   For Administrative Violations involving improvements to, or the
use of, buildings, structures, or land for which permits or approval are
required but were not obtained, the Administrative Fine levied shall be in
the following amounts.  For Administrative Violations involving improvements
to, or the use of, buildings, structures, or land for which no permit could
have been obtained, as determined by the Los Angeles Department of Building
and Safety, and no variance was sought, the Administrative Fine levied shall
be at four times (4x) the following amounts.



 



 




SQUARE FOOTAGE OF THE IMPROVEMENT OR USE IN VIOLATION

 

ADMINISTRATIVE FINE PER DAY OF VIOLATION




First Violation

 

Second Violation

 

Third Violation and All Subsequent Violations



250 to less than 500
 

$1,000

 

$2,000

 

$4,000



500 to less than 2,500
 

$2,000

 

$4,000

 

$8,000



2,500 to less than 5,000
 

$3,000

 

$6,000

 

$12,000



5,000 to less than 10,000
 

$4,000

 

$8,000

 

$16,000



10,000 to less than 25,000
 

$8,000

 

$16,000

 

$32,000



25,000 or more
 

$16,000

 

$32,000

 

$64,000





 



Administrative Violations involving improvements of less than 250 square feet
or that are not measureable by square footage shall be cited in accordance
with Subsection (b) of this Section.



 



   3.   For Administrative Violations involving sign regulations, the
Administrative Fine levied shall be in the following amounts:



 



 




SQUARE FOOTAGE OF THE SIGN IN VIOLATION

 

ADMINISTRATIVE FINE PER DAY OF VIOLATION




First Violation

 

Second Violation

 

Third Violation and All Subsequent Violations



Less than 150 square feet
 

$2,000

 

$4,000

 

$8,000



150 to less than 300 square feet
 

$4,000

 

$8,000

 

$16,000



300 to less than 450 square feet
 

$6,000

 

$12,000

 

$24,000



450 to less than 600 square feet
 

$8,000

 

$16,000

 

$32,000



600 to less than 750 square feet
 

$10,000

 

$20,000

 

$40,000



750 or more square feet
 

$12,000

 

$24,000

 

$48,000





 



   (b)   For all other Administrative Violations, the Administrative
Fine imposed shall be in the following amounts, unless otherwise specified in
this Code. (Amended by Ord. No. 185,451, Eff. 4/15/18.)



 



   1.   Two hundred and fifty dollars ($250) for a first violation;
provided, however, that the amount shall be one hundred dollars ($100) for a
first violation of any provision of Chapter V, Article 3, Sections 53.00 and
following, of this Code.



 



   2.   Five hundred dollars ($500) for a second violation of the same
code provision, statute, ordinance, order, condition or requirement;
provided, however, that the amount shall be two hundred and fifty dollars
($250) for a second violation of the same provision of Chapter V, Article 3,
Sections 53.00 and following, of this Code.



 



   3.   One thousand dollars ($1,000) for a third or any subsequent
violation of the same code provision, statute, ordinance, order, condition or
requirement; provided, however, that the amount shall be five hundred dollars
($500) for a third, and one thousand dollars ($1,000) for a fourth or any
subsequent, violation of the same provision of Chapter V, Article 3, Sections
53.00 and following, of this Code.



 



   4.   Nothing in this section shall preclude or limit the
Administrative Hearing Officer's authority to impose a greater Administrative
Fine, not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000), in accordance with
Subsection (b) of Section 11.2.09.



 



 



SEC. 11.2.05.  SERVICE PROCEDURES.



 



   (a)   An Administrative Citation in a form developed by the Issuing
Department and subject to the approval of the City Attorney may be issued to
the Responsible Person(s) by an Enforcement Officer for Administrative
Violations in the following manner:



 



   1.   Personal Service.  In any case where an Administrative
Citation is issued to an individual, the Enforcement Officer shall:



 



   A.   Locate the individual and serve the Administrative Citation on
the Responsible Person(s).  If the Responsible Person is a Minor, the
Enforcement Officer shall also attempt to serve the Administrative Citation
on the parent(s) or guardian(s) having custody and control of the Minor.



 



   B.   Obtain on the Administrative Citation the signature of the
Responsible Person.  If the Responsible Person refuses or fails to sign the
Administrative Citation, the failure or refusal to sign shall not affect the
validity of the Administrative Citation and subsequent proceedings.



 



   2.   Service by Mail.  If the Enforcement Officer is unable to
locate the Responsible Person for the Administrative Violation, the
Administrative Citation may be mailed to the Responsible Person by first
class mail.  If the Responsible Person is known to be a Minor, the
Administrative Citation shall be mailed to the parent(s) or guardian(s)
having custody and control of the Minor by first class mail.



 



   A.   If the Responsible Person is the property owner where a
property related Administrative Violation occurs, the Administrative Citation
shall be sent to the mailing address shown on the County's last equalized
property tax assessment rolls (if any), and the last known address of the
Responsible Person.



 



   B.   If the Responsible Person is the tenant or other possessor of
property where a property related Administrative Violation occurs, the
Administrative Citation shall be sent to the property address.



 



   (b)   Service pursuant to Subdivision 1. of Subsection (a) of this
Section shall be deemed effective at the time of personal delivery.  Service
pursuant to Subdivision 2. of Subsection (a) of this Section shall be deemed
effective five (5) calendar days following the date of mailing.



 



 



SEC. 11.2.06.  CONTENTS OF ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION.



 



   (a)   The City Attorney shall develop policies and procedures to
ensure that the contents of the Administrative Citation provide the
Responsible Person with adequate notice regarding the Administrative
Violation(s), potential liability, and all rights of appeal.



 



   (b)   Where an Administrative Violation can be corrected, the
Administrative Citation shall require the Responsible Person to immediately
correct the Administrative Violations and shall explain the consequences of
failure to correct the Administrative Violations.



 



   (c)   If the Administrative Violation pertains to a Continuing
Violation, a reasonable period of time to correct the Administrative
Violation must be specified on the citation in addition to an explanation of
the consequences for failing to correct the Administrative Violation.



 



 



SEC. 11.2.07.  SATISFACTION OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION.



 



   Upon receipt of an Administrative Citation, the Responsible Person
shall either:



 



   (a)   Pay the Fine. (Amended by Ord. No. 183,272, Eff. 11/14/14.)
Pay the Administrative Fine within twenty (20) calendar days after the notice
of the Administrative Violation is sent to the Responsible Person.



 



   1.   Payment of the Administrative Fine waives the Responsible
Person's right to the administrative hearing and appeal process as outlined
in Sections 11.2.08 and 11.2.09, below.



 



   2.   Payment of an Administrative Fine shall not excuse or discharge
a failure to correct an Administrative Violation, as defined in Subsection
(b) of Section 11.2.03, nor shall it bar the Enforcement Officer or Issuing
Department from taking any other enforcement action in response to an
Administrative Violation; or



 



   (b)   Remedy the Administrative Violation.  If a specified amount
of time was provided to correct an Administrative Violation, as defined in
Subsection (b) of Section 11.2.03, and the Responsible Person remedies the
Administrative Violation within the time granted, no Administrative Fine
shall be imposed.  The Administrative Citation shall not be deemed to have
been satisfied until the Responsible Person provides proof to the Issuing
Department that, within the time allotted by the Administrative Citation, the
Administrative Violation was satisfactorily remedied.  In addition, the
Issuing Department may also demand to inspect the condition that gave rise to
the issuance of the Administrative Citation to determine whether the
Administrative Violation has been satisfactorily remedied.



 



   The Responsible Person who remedies the Administrative Violation shall
remain liable for and shall pay the Enforcement Costs associated with the
Administrative Violation.  Timely correction of the Administrative Violation
does not absolve the Responsible Person of this liability.  Collection of
Enforcement Costs of violations remedied in this manner shall be the
responsibility of the Issuing Department.



 



 



SEC. 11.2.08.  APPEAL OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION.



 



   (a)   Request for Initial Review and Administrative Hearing.
(Amended by Ord. No. 183,272, Eff. 11/14/14.) If the Responsible Person
chooses to contest the Administrative Citation, the Responsible Person shall
submit to the City Attorney a request to do so on an official form provided
by the City no later than twenty (20) calendar days after the notice of the
Administrative Violation is sent to the Responsible Person. Said form,
hereinafter referred to as a Request for Initial Review, shall notify the
Responsible Person that an initial review regarding the validity of the
Administrative Citation will be conducted prior to scheduling an
administrative hearing and shall comply with the policy and procedures
established by the City Attorney.



 



   1.   Initial Review of Administrative Citation.  Upon receipt of
the Request for Initial Review, as provided in Subsection (a) of this
Section, the City Attorney will conduct an initial review to determine the
validity of the Administrative Citation and the appropriate remedy.  The
City Attorney may make either of the determinations set forth below or, in
the exercise of the City Attorney's independent discretion, determine to
refer the matter to be addressed through other available remedies including,
but not limited to, criminal proceedings, civil action, injunctive relief,
specific performance, and any other remedies provided by law.



 



   A.   If, following the initial review, the City Attorney determines
that the Administrative Violation did not occur, or that extenuating
circumstances make dismissal of the Administrative Citation appropriate in
the interest of justice, the Administrative Citation shall be dismissed and
the Responsible Person notified by mail.



 



   B.   If, following the initial review, the City Attorney does not
dismiss the Administrative Citation and determines that the administrative
remedy being sought is appropriate, the Responsible Person shall be notified
by mail and informed of his or her obligation to pay the Administrative Fine
within fifteen (15) days of the mailing, or of his or her right to request an
administrative hearing pursuant to Subdivision (2) of this Subsection.



 



   2.   Contest the Initial Review.  If the Responsible Person chooses
to contest the outcome of the initial review, within fifteen (15) days of the
mailing of the results of the initial review, the Responsible Person shall
submit a written request, on an official form provided by the City,
requesting an administrative hearing.  Said form, hereinafter referred to as
a Request for Administrative Hearing, shall include an advance deposit in the
full amount of the Administrative Fine or One Thousand dollars ($1,000),
whichever is less, or written proof of financial hardship as specified in
Paragraph A. of this Subsection.  A hearing shall be scheduled when the
aforementioned conditions are met.  A Responsible Party who fails to submit
a Request for Administrative Hearing within fifteen (15) days, or who fails
to make the required deposit or provide written proof of financial hardship,
will have waived the right to contest the Initial Review.



 



   A.   In lieu of the advance deposit required pursuant to Subdivision
(2) of this Subsection, written proof of financial hardship, which shall be
in the form of a declaration signed by the Responsible Person under penalty
of perjury, shall be filed with the City Attorney. The declaration shall
state that the Responsible Person earned less than 50% of the median income
for the Los Angeles area during the previous tax year, as reported on the
Responsible Person's federal income tax return filed with the Internal
Revenue Service.  The median income for the applicable year shall be as
determined by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development.



 



   3.   Code Compliance Fund.  All monies derived from the advance
deposits identified in Subdivision (2) of this Subsection shall be deposited
into the Code Compliance Fund, established pursuant to Article 11 of Chapter
6 of Division 5, Section 5.121.11 of the Los Angeles Administrative Code, and
held until the conclusion of the administrative hearing process at which time
the monies will either be transferred to the General Fund or refunded to the
Responsible Person.



 



   (b)   In the event the Responsible Person fails or refuses to
satisfy any of the alternatives set forth in Subsection (a) of this Section,
as applicable, then the Administrative Fine shall be immediately due and
owing the City and may be collected in any manner allowed by law for
collection of a debt. The Responsible Person shall also be responsible for
any additional fines and costs as set forth in Section 11.2.11.



 



 



SEC. 11.2.09.  ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING.



 



   (a)   Authority for the Administrative Hearing Process.  The City
Attorney shall create an administrative hearing and appeals process that is
consistent with this Article and with due process principles.  The City
Attorney shall develop, and submit to the City Council for approval prior to
the start of the Program, written policies and procedures for the hearing and
appeals process and written policies and procedures for the selection and
appointment of one or more independent Administrative Hearing Officers to
hear and decide administrative citation appeals.  The administrative hearing
shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures promulgated by the City
Attorney.



 



   (b)   Powers of the Administrative Hearing Officers.  The written
policies and procedures developed by the City Attorney pursuant to Subsection
(a) of this Section shall set forth the scope of the powers of the
Administrative Hearing Officer in accordance with this Section.  These
enumerated powers include, but are not limited to:



 



   1.   The Administrative Hearing Officer shall determine whether the
Administrative Violation specified in the Administrative Citation occurred;



 



   2.   The Administrative Hearing Officer shall determine whether the
assessed Administrative Fine is in accordance with the Administrative Fine
schedules provided in Section 11.2.04;



 



   3.   The Administrative Hearing Officer shall consider any
aggravating or mitigating factors that warrant deviation from the
Administrative Fine schedules, provided in Section 11.2.04, so that a greater
or lesser Administrative Fine should be imposed.  The factors that the
Administrative Hearing Officer shall consider, include, but are not limited
to:



 



   A.   the seriousness of the Administrative Violation;



 



   B.   the duration of the Administrative Violation;



 



   C.   efforts, if any, to correct the Administrative Violation;



 



   D.   the negative impacts of the Administrative Violation on the
community;



 



   E.   any instances in which the Responsible Person has been
responsible for the same or similar Administrative Violations in the past; and



 



   F.   any other factors that justice may require.



 



   4.   The Administrative Hearing Officer shall assess all
Administrative Costs associated with the appeal of the Administrative
Citation;



 



   5.   The Administrative Hearing Officer shall assess all Enforcement
Costs;



 



   6.   The Administrative Hearing Officer has the authority to require
a Responsible Person to deposit an amount equal to any assessed
Administrative Costs or Enforcement Costs in accordance with the policies and
procedures established pursuant to the City Attorney.



 



   (c)   Time for Administrative Hearing.



 



   1.   The City Attorney shall develop policies and procedures that
ensure adequate notice and a timely administrative hearing.  The Responsible
Person shall be notified in writing of the date and time of the hearing by
mailing the notice to the address provided by the Responsible Person in the
Request for Administrative Hearing.



 



   2.   The Responsible Person(s) or Issuing Department may request one
continuance pursuant to the procedures established by the City Attorney.



 



   3.   The Administrative Hearing Officer may, in his or her
discretion, grant or deny a continuance of the hearing date upon a request by
the Responsible Party or the Issuing department and a showing of good cause.



 



   (d)   Failure to Attend Administrative Hearing.



 



   1.   If the Responsible Person or his or her representative fails to
attend the scheduled hearing, he or she shall be deemed to have waived his or
her right to an administrative hearing.  Under these circumstances, the
Administrative Hearing Officer shall find the Responsible Person in default,
and shall issue a written notice to that effect.  A default under this
Section shall constitute a forfeiture of the Administrative Fine and a waiver
of any right to challenge the assessed Enforcement Costs and Administrative
Costs.  A default under this Section shall also be a bar to judicial review
of the hearing officer decision based upon failure to exhaust administrative
remedies.  A default under this provision may be set aside by the
Administrative Hearing Officer at the request of the Responsible Party upon a
showing of good cause for failing to appear at the Administrative Hearing.



 



   2.   A Responsible Person who has been issued an Administrative
Citation and who has requested an administrative hearing to challenge the
citation as provided in this Article may request in writing that his or her
challenge to the citation be withdrawn and the hearing cancelled.  Upon
receipt of a request to withdraw a challenge to the Administrative Citation,
the City shall cancel the pending hearing, and issue a written notice to that
effect.  A withdrawal under this Subdivision shall constitute a forfeiture
of the Administrative Fine and a waiver of any right to challenge the
assessed Enforcement Costs and Administrative Costs.  A withdrawal under
this Subdivision shall also be a bar to judicial review of the hearing
officer decision based upon failure to exhaust administrative remedies.



 



   3.   If a financial hardship waiver was granted pursuant to
Subdivision 2. of Subsection (a) of Section 11.2.08, and the Responsible
Person is in default as provided in Subdivision 1. of this Subsection, or a
challenge to the citation is withdrawn pursuant to Subdivision 2. of this
Subsection, the Administrative Fine, Enforcement Costs, and Administrative
Costs shall be due and payable by the Responsible Person(s) to the City
within twenty (20) calendar days following the date that had been set for the
administrative hearing.



 



   4.   The City may dismiss an Administrative Citation at any time if
it is determined to have been issued in error.



 



   (e)   Procedures at the Administrative Hearing.



 



   1.   Administrative hearings are informal in nature, and formal
rules of evidence and discovery do not apply.  The proceedings shall be
audio-recorded by the City.



 



   2.   The City bears the burden of proof at an administrative hearing
to establish the existence of the Administrative Violation specified on the
citation.  The Administrative Hearing Officer shall use preponderance of the
evidence as the standard of proof in deciding the issues.



 



   3.   The Administrative Citation and any additional documents
submitted by the Issuing Department shall be accepted by the Administrative
Hearing Officer as prima facie evidence of the respective facts contained in
those documents.  The Enforcement Officer may attend the hearing but is not
required to do so.



 



   4.   Each party shall have the opportunity to testify, cross-examine
witnesses, and present witnesses and evidence in support of his or her
case.  Written and oral evidence submitted at the hearing shall be submitted
under penalty of perjury.  Documentary and other tangible evidence must be
authenticated to the satisfaction of the Administrative Hearing Officer. 
Nothing shall preclude the use of telephonic or other electronic means of
communication if deemed appropriate by the Administrative Hearing Officer.



 



   (f)   Decision of the Administrative Hearing Officer.  After
considering all of the testimony and evidence submitted at the hearing, the
Administrative Hearing Officer shall, within fifteen (15) days thereafter,
render a decision in writing.  The decision rendered by the Administrative
Hearing Officer is not exclusive and does not preclude or foreclose the City
Attorney's Office from pursuing any and all other remedies provided by law. 
The Administrative Hearing Officer shall render a decision as follows:



 



   1.   Determine that the Administrative Violation specified in the
citation is founded, and impose an Administrative Fine in the amount set
forth in the citation and if the Administrative Violation has not been
corrected as of the date of the hearing, order correction of the
Administrative Violation; or



 



   2.   Determine that the Administrative Violation specified in the
citation is founded, but that the Administrative Fine was incorrectly
assessed with the Administrative Fine schedules as provided for in Section
11.2.04, warranting imposition of a lesser or greater Administrative Fine
than that prescribed in the citation and impose a lesser or greater
Administrative Fine and, if the Administrative Violation has not been
corrected as of the date of the hearing, order that the Administrative
Violation be corrected; or



 



   3.   Determine that the Administrative Violation specified in the
citation is founded, but that the Issuing Department or the Responsible Party
has introduced credible evidence of aggravating or mitigating circumstances
warranting imposition of a greater or lesser penalty than that prescribed in
the Administrative Fine schedules, as provided for in Section 11.2.04, and
impose a greater or lesser Administrative Fine, and if the Administrative
Violation has not been corrected as of the date of the hearing, order that
the Administrative Violation be corrected; or



 



   4.   Determine that the Administrative Violation specified in the
citation did not occur and cancel the Administrative Fine; and



 



   5.   Determine the amount of the Enforcement Costs and associated
Administrative Costs to be imposed, if any.



 



   (g)   The Administrative Order shall include the reasons for the
decision and be served on all parties by any one of the methods listed in
Section 11.2.05 of this Article or through service by first-class mail,
postage prepaid on the Responsible Person(s) at the address he or she
provided in the Request for Administrative Hearing.  In addition to the
matters set forth in Subsection (f) of this Section, the decision rendered by
the Administrative Hearing Officer shall address the following:



 



   1.   Administrative Fines.



 



   A.   If the Administrative Hearing Officer imposes an Administrative
Fine, the City shall keep the funds deposited at the time of the hearing
request.  If the deposited funds are less than the Administrative Fine, the
Responsible Person(s) shall pay the outstanding amount of the Administrative
Fine to the City within twenty (20) calendar days of the Administrative Order
becoming final.  If the deposited funds equal more than the Administrative
Fine, the City shall promptly refund the appropriate amount of the funds to
the Responsible Person(s).



 



   B.   If the Administrative Hearing Officer determines that the
Administrative Violation specified in the citation did not occur and cancels
the Administrative Fine, then the City shall promptly refund the amount of
funds deposited by the Responsible Person at the time of the hearing request
and no Enforcement Costs or Administrative Costs shall be assessed.



 



   2.   Enforcement Costs and Administrative Costs.



 



   A.   Enforcement Costs.  The Administrative Order shall assess all
reasonable Enforcement Costs to be paid by the Responsible Person.  The
Responsible Person(s) shall pay the Enforcement Costs to the City within
twenty (20) calendar days of the Administrative Order becoming final.



 



   B.   Administrative Costs.  The Administrative Order shall assess
all reasonable Administrative Costs to be paid by the Responsible Person. 
The Responsible Person(s) shall pay the Administrative Costs to the City
within twenty (20) calendar days of the Administrative Order becoming final.



 



   3.   The Administrative Order shall become final on the date of
mailing or other service, and shall notify the Responsible Person(s) of his
or her right to appeal.



 



 



SEC. 11.2.10.  RIGHT TO JUDICIAL REVIEW.



 



   (a)   Once an Administrative Order becomes final as provided in this
Article, no further appeal may be filed pursuant to the provisions of this
Code, except as provided for in this Section, or as otherwise provided by law.



 



   (b)   Once an Administrative Order becomes final, the time in which
judicial review of the order must be sought shall be governed by California
Code of Civil Procedure Section 1094.6.



 



   (c)   Should any court of competent jurisdiction determine that the
City must provide an appeal to any final Administrative Order in a manner
other than set forth in California Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.6,
then it is the intent of the City Council that the administrative penalty
process remain as provided herein and to provide that any appeal which is
timely requested follow the procedures set forth in Government Code Section
53069.4.



 



 



SEC. 11.2.11.  FAILURE TO PAY ADMINISTRATIVE FINES AND COSTS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 184,766, Eff. 3/27/17.)



 



   (a)   Any Responsible Person who is issued an Administrative
Citation pursuant to this article, excluding Administrative Violations
defined in Subsection (b) of Section 11.2.03, and does not pay within 15
calendar days, shall be assessed a late payment collection fee of $50.00
which shall be charged in addition to any other assessed fines and fees. 
The City may use any civil legal remedy available to collect any unpaid
Administrative Fine, including, but not limited to, civil action, injunctive
relief, specific performance and the recordation of a lien or a notice of the
Administrative Violation against real property pursuant to the procedures set
forth in this Code and in accordance with applicable law.



 



   (b)   Any Responsible Person who is issued an Administrative
Citation pursuant to this article for an Administrative Violation defined in
Subsection (b) of Section 11.2.03, and does not pay within 15 calendar days
from the conclusion of the time afforded to remedy the Administrative
Violation, shall be assessed a late payment collection fee of $50.00 which
shall be charged in addition to any other assessed fines and fees.  The City
may use any civil legal remedy available to collect any unpaid Administrative
Fine, including, but not limited to, civil action, injunctive relief,
specific performance and the recordation of a lien or a notice of the
Administrative Violation against real property pursuant to the procedures set
forth in this Code and in accordance with applicable law.



 



   (c)   Notwithstanding Subsections (a) and (b) of this section, if
the Responsible Person chooses to contest the Administrative Citation
pursuant to Section 11.2.08 of this article, and fails to pay the assessed
Administrative Fine, Enforcement Costs, and Administrative Costs within 20
calendar days of the Administrative Order becoming final, the Responsible
Person shall be assessed a late payment collection fee of $50.00, which shall
be charged in addition to any other assessed fines and fees.  The City may
use any civil legal remedy available to collect any unpaid Administrative
Fine or to gain compliance with the Administrative Order.  These remedies
include, but are not limited to, civil action, injunctive relief, specific
performance and the recordation of a lien or a notice of the Administrative
Violation against real property pursuant to the procedures set forth in this
Code and in accordance with applicable law.



 



   (d)   In the event a civil action is commenced to collect the
Administrative Fine, Enforcement Costs, or Administrative Costs, the City
shall be entitled to recover reasonable attorney's fees and all costs
associated with the civil action.  Costs include, but are not limited to,
staff time incurred in the collection of the Administrative Fine, Enforcement
Costs and Administrative Costs, and those costs set forth in Code of Civil
Procedure Section 1033.5.



 



 



SEC. 11.2.12.  DEPOSIT OF MONIES COLLECTED.



 



   All monies collected pursuant to the provisions of this Article shall
be deposited in the Code Compliance Fund, established pursuant to Article 11
of Chapter 6 of Division 5, Sections 5.121.11 and following, of the Los
Angeles Administrative Code.



 



 



SEC. 11.2.13.  SEVERABILITY.



 



   If any section, subsection, subdivision, sentence, clause, or phrase of
this Article is for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by
decision of any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not
affect the validity of the remaining portions of the Article.  The City
Council hereby declares that it would have passed this Article and each
section, subsection, subdivision, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of
the fact that one or more other sections, subsections, subdivisions, clauses
or phrases may be declared to be invalid or unconstitutional.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 1.5
PLANNING COMPREHENSIVE PLANNING PROGRAM



 




(Added by Ord. No. 138,800, Eff. 6/13/69, Oper. 6/23/69.)




 



 



Section



11.5.1   Title.



11.5.2   Area Planning Commissions.



11.5.3   Director of Planning (Director).



11.5.4   City Planning Commission.



11.5.5   Mandatory Referrals – Authority of Commission – Requirements.



11.5.6   General Plan.



11.5.7   Specific Plan Procedures.



11.5.8   General Plan Review.



11.5.9   Withdrawal of Application.



11.5.10   Withdrawal of Appeal.



11.5.11   Affordable Housing.



11.5.12   Delegation of Council's Authority to Consent to Extensions of
Time for Council Action.



11.5.13   CEQA Procedures.



11.5.14   Redevelopment Plan Procedures.



 



 



SEC. 11.5.1.  TITLE.



 



   This article shall be known as the “Comprehensive Planning Program of
the City of Los Angeles”.



 



 



SEC. 11.5.2.  AREA PLANNING COMMISSIONS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)



 



   A.   Boundaries.  In accordance with Charter Section 552, there are
hereby established seven Area Planning Commissions.  The Area Planning
Commissions, and their boundaries are as follows:



 



   1.   North Valley Area Planning Commission:  To serve those areas
included within the boundaries of the following community plans:



 



   (a)   Arleta - Pacoima Community Plan, as adopted on November 6,
1996, the boundaries of which are shown on a map in Council File No. 95-1396.



 



   (b)   Chatsworth - Porter Ranch Community Plan, as adopted on July
14, 1993,  the boundaries of which are shown on a map in Council File No.
91-1045-43.



 



   (c)   Granada Hills - Knollwood Community Plan, as adopted on July
10, 1996, the boundaries of which are shown on a map in Council File No.
95-0994.



 



   (d)   Mission Hills -Panorama City - North Hills Community Plan, as
adopted on June 9, 1999, the boundaries of which are shown on a map in
Council File No. 97-0706.



 



   (e)   Northridge Community Plan, as adopted on February 24, 1998,
the boundaries of which are shown on a map in Council File No. 98-0027.



 



   (f)   Sun Valley - La Tuna Canyon Community Plan, as adopted on
August 13, 1999, the boundaries of which are shown on a map in Council File
No. 98-2025.



 



   (g)   Sunland - Tujunga - Lakeview Terrace - Shadow Hills - East La
Tuna Canyon Community Plan, as adopted on November 18, 1997, the boundaries
of which are shown on a map in Council File No. 97-0703.



 



   (h)   Sylmar Community Plan, as adopted on August 6, 1997, the
boundaries of which are shown on a map in Council File No. 96-0429.



 



   2.   South Valley Area Planning Commission:  To serve those areas
included within the boundaries of the following community plans:



 



   (a)   Canoga Park - Winnetka - Woodland Hills - West Hills Community
Plan, as adopted on August 17, 1999, the boundaries of which are shown on a
map in Council File No. 98-1957.



 



   (b)   Encino - Tarzana Community Plan, as adopted on December 16,
1998, the boundaries of which are shown on a map in Council File No. 98-1823.



 



   (c)   North Hollywood - Valley Village Community Plan, as adopted on
May 14, 1996, the boundaries of which are shown on a map in Council File No.
95-0830.



 



   (d)   Reseda - West Van Nuys Community Plan, as adopted on November
17, 1999, the boundaries of which are shown on a map in Council File No.
96-1597.



 



   (e)   Sherman Oaks - Studio City - Toluca Lake - Cahuenga Pass
Community Plan, as adopted on May 13, 1998, the boundaries of which are shown
on a map in Council File No. 97-0704.



 



   (f)   Van Nuys - North Sherman Oaks Community Plan, as adopted on
September 9, 1998, the boundaries of which are shown on a map in Council File
No. 98-0572.



 



   The South Valley Area Planning Commission shall also serve those areas
included within the boundaries of the Mulholland Scenic Parkway Specific
Plan, as adopted by Ordinance No. 167,943 on June 29, 1992, the boundaries of
which are shown in the map attached to that ordinance.  To the extent any
area included within the boundaries of the Mulholland Scenic Parkway Specific
Plan is also included within a community plan, that area shall be served by
the South Valley Commission, and not by any other Area Planning Commission
that would otherwise be authorized to serve that area under this subsection.



 



   3.   West Los Angeles Area Planning Commission:  To serve those
areas included within the boundaries of the following community plans:



 



   (a)   Bel Air - Beverly Crest Community Plan, as adopted on November
6, 1996, the boundaries of which are shown on a map in Council File No.
95-1386; except for that area within the boundaries of the Mulholland Scenic
Parkway Specific Plan, which area shall be served by the South Valley Area
Planning Commission as provided in Subdivision 2 of this subsection.



 



   (b)   Brentwood - Pacific Palisades Community Plan, as adopted on
June 17, 1998, the boundaries of which are shown on a map in Council File No.
98-0771; except for that area within the boundaries of the Mulholland Scenic
Parkway Specific Plan, which area shall be served by the South Valley Area
Planning Commission as provided in Subdivision 2 of this subsection.



 



   (c)   Palms - Mar Vista - Del Rey Community Plan, as adopted on
September 17, 1998, the boundaries of which are shown on a map in Council
File No. 97-0705.



 



   (d)   Venice Community Plan, as adopted on October 14, 1970, the
boundaries of which are shown on a map in Council File No. 76-1403.



 



   (e)   West Los Angeles Community Plan, as adopted on July 27, 1999,
the boundaries of which are shown on a map in Council File No. 98-2024.



 



   (f)   Westchester - Playa Del Rey Community Plan, as adopted on June
13, 1974, the boundaries of which are shown on a map in Council File No.
72-2670.



 



   (g)   Westwood Community Plan, as adopted on July 27, 1999, the
boundaries of which are shown on a map in Council File No. 98-1534.



 



   The West Los Angeles Area Planning Commission shall also serve those
areas included within the boundaries of the Interim Plan for the Los Angeles
International Airport, as adopted by the City Council on January 12, 1981,
the boundaries of which are shown on the map in Council File No. 82-4283-S1.



 



   4.   Central Area Planning Commission:  To serve those areas
included within the boundaries of the following community plans:



 



   (a)   Central City Community Plan, as adopted on May 2, 1974, the
boundaries of which are shown on a map in Council File No. 72-1723.



 



   (b)   Central City North Community Plan, as adopted on February 5,
1985, the boundaries of which are shown on a map in Council File No. 84-1717.



 



   (c)   Hollywood Community Plan, as adopted on December 13, 1988, the
boundaries of which are shown on a map in Council File No. 86-0695-S1; except
for that area within the boundaries of the Mulholland Scenic Parkway Specific
Plan, which area shall be served by the South Valley Area Planning Commission
as provided in Subdivision 2 of this subsection.



 



   (d)   Westlake Community Plan, as adopted on September 16, 1997, the
boundaries of which are shown on a map in Council File No. 95-1234.



 



   (e)   Wilshire Community Plan, as adopted on May 17, 1976, the
boundaries of which are shown on a map in Council File No. 75-2828-S1.



 



   5.   East Area Planning Commission:  To serve those areas included
within the boundaries of the following community plans:



 



   (a)   Boyle Heights Community Plan, as adopted on November 10, 1998,
the boundaries of which are shown on a map in Council File No. 95-1302.



 



   (b)   Northeast Los Angeles Community Plan, as adopted on June 15,
1999, the boundaries of which are shown on a map in Council File No. 99-0711.



 



   (c)   Silver Lake - Echo Park Community Plan, as adopted on February
17, 1984, the boundaries of which are shown on a map in Council File No.
83-0071.



 



   6.   South Los Angeles Area Planning Commission:  To serve those
areas included within the boundaries of the following community plans:



 



   (a)   South Central Los Angeles Community Plan, as adopted on March
22, 2000, the boundaries of which are shown on a map in Council File No.
98-1192.



 



   (b)   Southeast Los Angeles Community Plan, as adopted on March 22,
2000, the boundaries of which are shown on a map in Council File No. 99-0496.



 



   (c)   West Adams - Baldwin Hills - Leimert Community Plan, as
adopted on May 6, 1998, the boundaries of which are shown on a map in Council
File No. 97-0534.



 



   7.   Harbor Area Planning Commission:  To serve those areas
included within the boundaries of the following community plans:



 



   (a)   Harbor Gateway Community Plan, as adopted on December 6, 1995,
the boundaries of which are shown on a map in Council File No. 95-1394.



 



   (b)   San Pedro Community Plan, as adopted on March 24, 1999, the
boundaries of which are shown on a map in Council File No. 98-1771.



   (c)   Wilmington - Harbor City Community Plan, as adopted on July
14, 1999, the boundaries of which are shown on a map in Council File No.
98-1619.



 



   The Harbor Area Planning Commission shall also serve those areas
included within the boundaries of the Port of Los Angeles Plan, as adopted by
the City Council on September 28, 1982, the boundaries of which are shown on
the map in Council File No. 82-0400.



 



   B.   Change in Boundaries.  If the boundaries of any community plan
or specific plan mentioned in subsection (a) of this section are changed,
that change will not affect the boundaries of the areas to be served by each
Area Planning Commission as prescribed by this section.  A change in the
boundaries of the area to be served by any Area Planning Commission shall be
effected only by specific amendment or repeal of this section.



 



 



SEC. 11.5.3.  DIRECTOR OF PLANNING (DIRECTOR).



   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,455, Eff. 9/22/00.)



 



   In addition to the duties set forth in the Charter, the Director of
Planning shall have the authority to interpret the meaning of the General
Plan and specific plans in instances when there is a lack of clarity in the
meaning of those regulations, subject to appellate review.  The Director may
appoint a designee to act on his or her behalf, in which case, references in
this article to Director shall include this designee, unless stated otherwise.



 



 



SEC. 11.5.4.  CITY PLANNING COMMISSION.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)



 



   In addition to the duties set forth in the Charter, the City Planning
Commission shall adopt guidelines for the administration of the provisions of
this chapter if it determines that guidelines are necessary and
appropriate.  Authority to adopt guidelines for the administration of the
provisions of this chapter may be delegated to others by adoption of a
resolution by Council.  Existing provisions of this chapter that delegate
authority for the adoption of guidelines to others shall continue to apply
with respect to those provisions.



 



 



SEC. 11.5.5.  MANDATORY REFERRALS – AUTHORITY OF COMMISSION –
REQUIREMENTS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)



 



   No ordinance, order or resolution referred to in Charter Sections 555
or 558 shall be adopted by the Council, unless it shall have first been
submitted to the City Planning Commission or the Area Planning Commission for
report and recommendation, in the manner set forth in those sections.  The
report and recommendation shall indicate whether the proposed ordinance,
order or resolution is in conformance with the General Plan, any applicable
specific plans, any plans being prepared by the Department of City Planning,
and any other applicable requirement set forth in those Charter sections.



 



 



SEC. 11.5.6.  GENERAL PLAN.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)



 



   Pursuant to Charter Section 555, the City’s comprehensive General
Plan may be adopted, and amended from time to time, either as a whole, by
complete subject elements, by geographic areas or by portions of elements or
areas, provided that any area or portion of an area has significant social,
economic or physical identity.



 



   A.   Amendments.  Amendments to the General Plan of the City shall
be initiated, prepared and acted upon in accordance with the procedures set
forth in Charter Section 555 and this section.



 



   B.   Initiation of Plan Amendment.  (Amended by Ord. No. 184,745,
eff. 12/13/16.)  As provided in Charter Section 555, an amendment to the
General Plan may be initiated by the Council, the City Planning Commission or
the Director of Planning.  Initiations by the Council or City Planning
Commission shall be by majority vote.  If an amendment is initiated by the
Council or City Planning Commission, then it shall be transmitted to the
Director for report and recommendation to the City Planning Commission.



 



   Whether initiated by the Director, the Council or the City Planning
Commission, the Director shall prepare the amendment and a report
recommending action by the City Planning Commission.  The report shall
contain an explanation of the reasons for the action recommended.



 



   After the Director prepares a Plan amendment and report, the Director
shall transmit the file to the City Planning Commission for its action. 
Nothing in this section shall restrict the adoption of a General Plan
amendment which permits the development of a project if:



 



   1.   The project (a) is located in an area classified on January 1,
2016, as a Regional Center, a Downtown Center, in an area zoned as
Industrial, or a Major Transit Stop including all land within a one-half mile
radius of a Major Transit Stop; or (b) each residential unit in the project,
exclusive of a manager's unit or units, is affordable to, and occupied by,
either a Lower or Very Low Income household;



 



   2.   All building and construction work on the project will be
performed at all tiers by contractors which (a) are licensed by the State of
California and the City of Los Angeles; (b) shall make a good-faith effort to
ensure that at least 30% of all their respective workforces' construction
workers' hours of Project Work shall be performed by permanent residents of
the City of Los Angeles of which at least 10% of all their respective
workforces' construction workers' hours of Project Work shall be performed by
Transitional Workers whose primary place of residence is within a 5-mile
radius of the covered project; (c) employ only construction workers which
possess all licenses and certifications required by the State of California
and the City of Los Angeles; (d) pay their construction workers performing
project work the wages prevailing in the project area determined pursuant to
California Labor Code § 1770; and (e) have at least 60% of their respective
construction workforces on the project from:  (1) workers who have graduated
from a Joint Labor Management apprenticeship training program approved by the
State of California, or have at least as many hours of on-the-job experience
in the applicable craft which would be required to graduate from such a
state-approved apprenticeship training program, and (2) registered
apprentices in an apprenticeship training program approved by the State of
California or an out-of-state, federally-approved apprenticeship program; and



 



   3.   If the General Plan amendment results in increased allowable
residential floor area, density or height, or allows a residential use where
previously not allowed, projects with ten or more residential dwelling units
shall also provide affordable housing consistent with the provisions of
Section 5 of the Build Better LA Initiative.



 



   For the purposes of this Section the following terms have the meaning
shown:



 



   "Transitional Worker" means an individual who, at the time of
commencing work on the project, resides in an Economically Disadvantaged Area
or Extremely Economically Disadvantaged Area and faces at least two of the
following barriers to employment:  (1) being homeless; (2) being a custodial
single parent; (3) receiving public assistance; (4) lacking a GED or high
school diploma; (5) having a criminal record or other involvement with the
criminal justice system; (6) suffering from chronic unemployment; (7)
emancipated from the foster care system; (8) being a veteran; or (9) being an
apprentice with less than 15% of the apprenticeship hours required to
graduate to journey level in a program.



 



   "Economically Disadvantaged Area" means a zip code that includes a
census tract or portion thereof in which the median annual household income
is less than $40,000 per year, as measured and reported by the U.S. Census
Bureau in the 2010 U.S. Census and as updated by the parties upon the U.S.
Census Bureau issuing updated Median Annual Household Income data by census
tract in the American Community Survey.



 



   "Extremely Economically Disadvantaged Area" means a zip code that
includes a census tract or portion thereof in which the median annual
household income is less than $32,000 per year, as measured and reported by
the U.S. Census Bureau in the 2010 U.S. Census and as updated by the parties
upon the U.S. Census Bureau issuing updated Median Annual Household Income
data by census tract in the American Community Survey.



 



   The Department of Public Works, Bureau of Contract Administration shall
bear administrative responsibilities for the labor standards required by this
section.



 



   C.   Action by City Planning Commission on Proposed Amendments.



 



   1.   Notice and Hearing.  Before the City Planning Commission acts
on a proposed Plan amendment and the Director’s recommendation, the matter
shall be set for a public hearing.  The City Planning Commission may hold
the hearing itself or may direct the Director to hold the hearing.  In
either event, notice of the time, place and purpose of the hearing shall be
given by at least one publication in a newspaper of general circulation in
the City (designated for this purpose by the City Clerk), at least ten days
prior to the date of the hearing.  Notice shall also be mailed to any person
requesting notice of the hearing.



 



   At the time of the hearing, the City Planning Commission or the
Director shall hear public testimony from anyone wishing to be heard on the
matter.  The City Planning Commission or the Director may continue the
hearing to another date announced publicly at the hearing being continued; no
additional notice of the continued hearing need be given.  If the hearing is
conducted by the Director, he or she shall submit a report to the City
Planning Commission summarizing the information received.  The report may
also contain a recommendation to the City Planning Commission regarding its
action on the proposed amendment.  The Director shall file his or her report
with the City Planning Commission after the close of the hearing.



 



   2.   City Planning Commission Action.  After receiving the
Director’s report, or after the close of a public hearing conducted by the
City Planning Commission, the City Planning Commission shall recommend to the
Mayor and the Council that the proposed amendment be approved or disapproved
in whole or in part.  The City Planning Commission’s report to the Mayor
and the Council shall set forth the Commission’s reasons for its
recommendation.



 



   The City Planning Commission shall act within 90 days after receiving
the Director’s report pursuant to Subsection B.  If the City Planning
Commission fails to do so, the City Planning Commission’s failure to act
shall be deemed a recommendation for approval of the Plan amendment.



 



   If the City Planning Commission recommends approval of any proposed
Plan amendment or disapproval of either a proposed amendment initiated by the
Director or the Council, the Commission shall transmit as soon as possible
those actions to the Mayor for consideration and report to the Council.  If
the City Planning Commission recommends the disapproval of a Plan Amendment
initiated by it, the City Planning Commission shall report its decision to
the Council and Mayor.



 



   D.   Action by the Mayor on Proposed Amendments.  Within 30 days
after receipt of the City Planning Commission’s recommendation, the Mayor
shall make a recommendation to the Council on the proposed Plan amendment. 
The Mayor’s report to the Council shall set forth the Mayor’s reasons for
his or her recommendation.  If the Mayor does not act within the 30-day
period, the Mayor’s inaction shall be deemed a recommendation for approval
of the Plan amendment.



 



   E.   Action by the Council on Proposed Amendments.  After receiving
the recommendations of the City Planning Commission and the Mayor, or at the
expiration of the 30-day period for the Mayor to act, the Council shall hold
a public hearing on the proposed Plan amendment.



 



   After the close of the public hearing, the Council may do either of the
following:  (Amended by Ord. No. 177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.)



 



   1.   Approve or disapprove the Plan amendment in whole or in part in
accordance with Charter Section 555(e); or



 



   2.   Propose changes to the Plan amendment.



 



   The Council shall take either of these actions within 75 days after
receiving the recommendation of the Mayor, or within 75 days after the
expiration of the Mayor's time to act if the Mayor has not made a timely
recommendation.  The failure of the Council to act within that 75-day period
shall constitute a disapproval of the Plan amendment.  (Amended by Ord. No.
177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.)



 



   In accordance with Charter Section 555(e), if both the City Planning
Commission and the Mayor recommend approval of a proposed amendment, the
Council may adopt the amendment by a majority vote.  If either the City
Planning Commission or the Mayor recommends the disapproval of a proposed
amendment, the Council may adopt the amendment only by at least a two-thirds
vote.  If both the City Planning Commission and the Mayor recommend the
disapproval of a proposed amendment, the Council may adopt the amendment only
by at least a three-fourths vote.



 



   F.   Proposed Changes by the Council.  If the Council proposes
changes to the Plan amendment that differ from the amendment as initiated or
the recommendation of the City Planning Commission, the matter shall be
returned simultaneously to the City Planning Commission and the Mayor for
their recommendations on the proposed changes.  In acting on those changes,
the City Planning Commission and the Mayor shall follow the procedures set
forth above for their initial action.  The City Planning Commission shall
act within 60 days of receipt of the Council’s proposed change.  The Mayor
shall act within 30 days of the receipt of the City Planning Commission’s
recommendation on the proposed change, or the expiration of the time for the
City Planning Commission to act if the Commission fails to make a timely
recommendation.  If either the City Planning Commission or the Mayor does
not act within the time period, that inaction shall be deemed a
recommendation of approval of the proposed changes.  The recommendations of
the Commission and the Mayor on any changes made by the Council shall affect
only those changes.  The Council shall act to approve or disapprove, in
whole or in part, the Plan amendment, including the Council’s changes,
within 120 days after receiving both the City Planning Commission’s and the
Mayor’s recommendations on the Council’s proposed changes, or the
expiration of their time to act on those changes.



 



 



SEC. 11.5.7.  SPECIFIC PLAN PROCEDURES.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,455, Eff. 9/22/00.)



 



   A.   Definition, Purpose and Objectives.  (Amended by Ord. No.
173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)  A specific plan is a regulatory land use ordinance
specifically designated in the ordinance as a specific plan.  A specific
plan shall provide by ordinance regulatory controls or incentives for the
systematic execution of the General Plan and shall provide for public needs,
convenience and general welfare.  Except as otherwise provided by this
section, procedures for the establishment, amendment or repeal of specific
plans are set forth in Section 12.32.



 



   The objectives of this section are as follows:



 



   1.   To establish uniform citywide procedures for review of
applications for projects within specific plan areas in accordance with
applicable specific plan requirements and the City Charter; and



 



   2.   To establish uniform citywide standards and criteria for
processing applications for exceptions from, amendments to and
interpretations of specific plans.



 



   B.   Relationship To Provisions of Specific Plans.  If any
procedure established in a specific plan conflicts with any procedure set
forth in this section, the provisions of this section shall prevail.



 



   1.   Definitions.  For the purpose of this section, the following
words and phrases are defined as follows:



 



   Project Permit Compliance shall mean a decision by the Director that a
project complies with the regulations of the applicable specific plan, either
as submitted or with conditions imposed to achieve compliance.



 



   Project Permit Adjustment shall mean a decision on a project by the
Director granting a minor adjustment from certain specific plan regulations,
subject to the limitations specified by this section.



 



   2.   Application Procedure.



 



   (a)   Application, Form and Contents.  To apply for a Project
Permit Compliance, a Project Permit Adjustment, modification of a Project
Permit Compliance, specific plan exception, or to request a specific plan
amendment or specific plan interpretation, an applicant shall file an
application with the Department of City Planning, on a form provided by the
Department, and include all information required by the instructions on the
application and any applicable adopted guidelines.  Prior to deeming the
application complete, the Director shall determine and, if necessary, advise
the applicant of the processes to be followed and fees to be paid.



 



   (b)   Application Fees.  The application fees for a Project Permit
Compliance, Project Permit Adjustment, specific plan exception, request for a
specific plan amendment and specific plan interpretation shall be as set
forth in Section 19.01J.



 



   C.   Project Permit Compliance Review - Director of Planning With
Appeal to the Area Planning Commission.



 



   1.   Director’s Authority.  The Director shall have the initial
decision-making authority to decide whether an application for a project
within a specific plan area is in conformance with the regulations
established by this subsection and in compliance with applicable regulations
of the specific plan.  In addition, the Director shall have the authority to
determine what type of projects are exempt from these Project Permit
Compliance procedures based on exemption provisions and other regulations
contained in individual specific plans.



 



   (a)   The Director shall review and approve, disapprove or approve
with conditions an application for a Project Permit Compliance.



 



   (b)   In granting a Project Permit Compliance, the Director shall
require compliance with the applicable regulations of the specific plan and
mitigation of significant adverse effects of the project on the environment
and surrounding areas.



 



   2.   Findings.  The Director shall grant a Project Permit
Compliance upon written findings that the project satisfies each of the
following requirements:



 



   (a)   That the project substantially complies with the applicable
regulations, findings, standards and provisions of the specific plan; and
(Amended by Ord. No. 177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.)



 



   (b)   That the project incorporates mitigation measures, monitoring
measures when necessary, or alternatives identified in the environmental
review which would mitigate the negative environmental effects of the
project, to the extent physically feasible.



 



   3.   Limitations.  The granting of a Project Permit Compliance
shall not imply compliance with any other applicable provisions of the Los
Angeles Municipal Code.  Any corrections and/or modifications to project
plans made subsequent to a Director’s Project Permit Compliance that are
deemed necessary by the Department of Building and Safety for Building Code
compliance, and which involve a change in floor area, parking, building
height, yards or setbacks, building separation or lot coverage, shall require
a referral of the revised plans back to the Department of City Planning (and
the Department of Transportation in cases where there are corrections and/or
modifications that may affect the calculation of vehicle trips generated,
project floor area or parking) for additional review and sign-off prior to
the issuance of any permit in connection with those plans.



 



   4.   Director’s Decision.



 



   (a)   Time Limit.  The Director shall make a written decision
approving, disapproving or approving with conditions a Project Permit
Compliance application within 75 days after:



 



   (1)   the date the application is deemed complete; or



 



   (2)   when an environmental impact report (EIR) is required, the
date the EIR is certified as complete consistent with State law.



 



   This time limit may be extended by mutual consent of the Director and
the applicant.  The time limit may also be extended as provided in Section
12.25 A.



 



   (b)   Transmittal of Written Decision.  Upon making a written
decision, the Director shall transmit a copy by First Class Mail to the
applicant.  Copies shall also be provided to: the Department of Building and
Safety; the Councilmember(s) having jurisdiction over the specific plan area
in which the property is located; the Department of Transportation, where
appropriate; owners of all properties abutting, across the street or alley
from, or having a common corner with the subject property; the Department of
Neighborhood Empowerment; the chairperson of any design review or plan review
board having jurisdiction over the specific plan area in which the property
is located; and interested parties who have filed written requests with the
City Planning Department.



 



   (c)   Effective Date of Initial Decision.  The Director’s Project
Permit Compliance shall become effective after an elapsed period of 15
calendar days from the date of mailing of the written decision, unless an
appeal is filed on the decision within that period pursuant to Subdivision 6.
of this subsection.



 



   (d)   Applicant’s Compliance with Project Permit Compliance Terms
and Conditions.  Once a Project Permit Compliance is utilized, the applicant
shall comply with the terms and conditions of the Project Permit Compliance
that affect the construction and/or operational phases of the project.  For
purposes of this subsection, utilization of a Project Permit Compliance shall
mean that a building permit has been issued and construction work has begun
and been carried on diligently.



 



   (e)   (Deleted by Ord. No. 182,106, Eff. 5/20/12.)



 



   (f)   Site Plan Review Regulations.  Project review pursuant to the
Site Plan Review regulations in Section 16.05 shall not be required for
projects in those specific plan areas, as determined by the Director, where
similar project site planning regulations are established by the specific
plan and significant project environmental impacts, if any, are mitigated by
the measures imposed in the Project Permit Compliance.



 



   (g)   Mini-Shopping Center and Commercial Corner Development
Regulations.  Project review pursuant to the Mini-Shopping Center Commercial
Corner Development regulations in Section 12.22A23 shall not be required for
projects in those specific plan areas, as determined by the Director, where
similar mini-shopping center or commercial corner development regulations are
established by the specific plan and significant project environmental
impacts, if any, are mitigated by the measures imposed in the Project Permit
Compliance.



 



   5.   Failure to Act - Transfer of Jurisdiction.



 



   (a)   If the Director fails to act on an application within 75 days
from the date of filing a complete application, or within a mutually agreed
upon extension of time, the applicant may file a request for a transfer of
jurisdiction to the Area Planning Commission for decision.



 



   (b)   When the Area Planning Commission receives the applicant’s
request for a transfer of jurisdiction, the Director shall lose
jurisdiction.  However, the Area Planning Commission may remand the matter
to the Director, who shall regain jurisdiction for the time and purpose
specified in the remand action.  In addition, upon receipt of a written
request by the applicant for withdrawal of the transfer of jurisdiction prior
to the matter being considered by the Area Planning Commission, the matter
shall be remanded to the Director.



 



   (c)   If the matter is not remanded, the Area Planning Commission
shall consider the application following the same procedures and subject to
the same limitations as are applicable to the Director, except that the Area
Planning Commission shall act within 45 days of the transfer of
jurisdiction.  The Department of City Planning shall make investigations and
furnish any reports requested by the body to which the matter has been
transferred.



 



   6.   Appeals.



 



   (a)   Filing of an Appeal.  An applicant or any other person
aggrieved by the Director’s decision may appeal the decision to the Area
Planning Commission.  The appeal shall be filed within 15 days of the date
of mailing of the Director’s decision on forms provided by the
Department.  The appeal shall set forth specifically the points at issue,
the reasons for the appeal, and the basis upon which the appellant claims
there was an error or abuse of discretion by the Director.  Any appeal not
filed within the 15-day period shall not be considered by the Area Planning
Commission.  The filing of an appeal stays proceedings in the matter until
the Area Planning Commission has made a decision.  Once an appeal is filed,
the Director shall transmit the appeal and the file to the Area Planning
Commission, together with any reports responding to the allegations made in
the appeal.



 



   (b)   Appellate Decision - Public Hearing and Notice.  Before
acting on any appeal, the Area Planning Commission shall set the matter for
hearing, with written notice of the hearing sent by First Class Mail at least
15 days prior to the meeting date to:  the applicant; the owner(s) of the
property involved; owners of properties within 100 feet of the exterior
boundaries of the property involved; the Councilmember(s) having jurisdiction
over the specific plan area in which the property is located; the Department
of Neighborhood Empowerment; the chairperson of any design review or plan
review board having jurisdiction over the specific plan area in which the
property is located; and interested parties who have requested notice in
writing.



 



   (c)   Time for Appellate Decision.  The Area Planning Commission
shall act within 75 days after the expiration of the appeal period or within
any additional period mutually agreed upon by the applicant and the Area
Planning Commission.  The failure of the Area Planning Commission to act
within this time period shall be deemed a denial of the appeal.



 



   (d)   Appellate Decision.  The Area Planning Commission may reverse
or modify, in whole or in part, a decision of the Director.  The Area
Planning Commission shall make the same findings required to be made by the
Director, supported by facts in the record, and indicate why the Director
erred in determining a project’s compliance with the applicable regulations
of the specific plan.



 



   (e)   Effective Date of Appellate Decision.  The appellate decision
of the Area Planning Commission shall be final and effective as provided in
Charter Section 245.



 



   D.   Modification of a Project Permit Compliance - Director of
Planning With Appeals to the Area Planning Commission.  Once a Project
Permit Compliance becomes effective, any subsequent proposed modification to
the project shall require a review by the Director, who shall grant approval
of the modification if he or she finds the modification to be substantially
in conformance with the original Project Permit Compliance.



 



   1.   Modification Procedure.  To modify an approved project, an
applicant shall  file an application with the Department of City Planning
pursuant to the application procedure set forth in Paragraph (a) of
Subdivision 2 of Subsection B.  The application shall include an illustrated
description of the proposed modification and a narrative justification. 
Written proof of any modification required by a public agency shall be
submitted with the application.



 



   2.   Limitations.  Modification applications and approvals shall
only be valid for Project Permit Compliance decisions which have not
expired.  Unless the Director has granted an extension of time to utilize a
Project Permit Compliance pursuant to Paragraph (e) of Subdivision 4 of
Subsection C of this section, modifications shall not suspend or extend the
authorization period of the original Project Permit Compliance.



 



   3.   Transfers of Jurisdiction - Appeals.  The procedures for
processing transfers of jurisdiction and appeals of Director’s decisions on
modifications shall be the same as those set forth for Project Permit
Compliance decisions in Subdivisions 5 and 6 of Subsection C of this section.



 



   E.   Project Permit Adjustments - Director of Planning With Appeals
to the Area Planning Commission.



 



   1.   Director’s Authority.  The Director shall have initial
decision-making authority to grant a Project Permit Adjustment for minor
adjustments from certain specific plan regulations.  The procedures for
reviewing applications shall be in Subsection C in addition to those set
forth below.



 



   (a)   In granting a Project Permit Adjustment, the Director may
impose project conditions as the Director deems necessary in order to achieve
substantial conformance with the specific plan regulations.



 



   (b)   If an application requests more than one Project Permit
Adjustment, the Director may determine and advise the applicant, prior to the
application being deemed complete, that the request be filed and processed as
a specific plan exception pursuant to Subsection F of this section.



 



   2.   Project Permit Adjustments shall be limited to:



 



   (a)   Adjustments permitting project height to exceed the designated
height limitation on the property involved by less than ten percent;



 



   (b)   When the calculation of the maximum number of permitted
multiple- family dwelling units results in a fraction, the number of total
dwelling units may be rounded up to the next whole number, if the lot area
remaining after calculating the maximum number of permitted dwelling units is
at least 90 percent of the lot area required by the specific plan regulation
to permit one additional dwelling unit;



 



   (c)   Adjustments permitting portions of buildings to extend into a
required yard, setback or other open space a distance of less than 20 percent
of the minimum width or depth of the required yard, setback or open space;



 



   (d)   Adjustments to minimum landscaped area requirements of less
than 20 percent, or minor adjustments to required types of landscape
materials;



 



   (e)   Adjustments to permitted signs that:



 



   (1)   exceed the maximum sign size (area) limitation by less than 20
percent;



 



   (2)   exceed the limit on the maximum number of signs by no more
than 20 percent; or



 



   (3)   exceed the maximum sign height by no more than two feet;



 



   (f)   Adjustments from the minimum or maximum number of required
parking spaces associated with a project of less than ten percent; and



 



   (g)   Minor adjustments from other specific plan development
regulations, which do not substantially alter the execution or intent of
those specific plan regulations to the proposed project, and which do not
change the permitted use, floor area, density or intensity, height or bulk,
setbacks or yards, lot coverage limitations, or parking standards regulated
by the specific plan.



 



   3.   Findings.  The Director shall grant a Project Permit
Adjustment upon a written finding that the project satisfies each of the
following requirements, in addition to any other required specific plan
findings that may pertain to the Project Permit Compliance:



 



   (a)   That there are special circumstances applicable to the project
or project site which make the strict application of the specific plan
regulation(s) impractical;



 



   (b)   That in granting the Project Permit Adjustment, the Director
has imposed project requirements and/or decided that the proposed project
will substantially comply with all applicable specific plan regulations;



 



   (c)   That in granting the Project Permit Adjustment, the Director
has considered and found no detrimental effects of the adjustment on
surrounding properties and public rights-of-way; and



 



   (d)   That the project incorporates mitigation measures, monitoring
of measures when necessary, or alternatives identified in the environmental
review which would mitigate the negative environmental effects of the
project, to the extent physically feasible.



 



   F.   Exceptions from Specific Plans - Area Planning Commission With
Appeals to the City Council.



 



   1.   Authority of the Area Planning Commission.  The Area Planning
Commission shall have initial decision-making authority for granting
exceptions from specific plan regulations.  In accordance with Subsection D
of Section 12.24, the Area Planning Commission shall hold a hearing at which
evidence is taken.



 



   (a)   In granting an exception from a specific plan, the Area
Planning Commission shall impose conditions to remedy any resulting disparity
of privilege and that are necessary to protect the public health, safety,
welfare and assure compliance with the objectives of the general plan and the
purpose and intent of the specific plan.  An exception from a specific plan
shall not be used to grant a special privilege, nor to grant relief from
self-imposed hardships.



 



   (b)   If an application for an exception would potentially impact a
specific plan policy or a regulation affecting the entire specific plan area
or any of its subareas, the Director shall advise the applicant, prior to the
application being deemed complete, to request the City to initiate a specific
plan amendment pursuant to Subsection G in lieu of processing the application
for an exception.



 



   (c)   Exception for Relief from a Specific Plan Regulation and the
Same Type of Regulation With the Same Standard in Chapter I of this Code. 
(Added by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)  If a specific plan contains a
regulation that is the same type of regulation with the same standard as one
contained in an applicable provision of Chapter I of this Code, an applicant
seeking relief from those regulations need only apply for and receive an
exception to the specific plan.  In this situation, the specific plan
regulation is considered to supersede the Code provision and thus a variance
is not required.



 



   (d)   Exception for Relief from Specific Plan Regulation and the
Same Type of Regulation With a Different Standard in Chapter I of this Code
Where Specific Plan Supersedes the Code.  (Added by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff.
10/10/00.)  If a specific plan contains a regulation that conflicts with the
same type of regulation but with a different standard contained in an
applicable provision of Chapter I of this Code and the specific plan
supersedes the Code by its terms, then an applicant seeking relief from that
specific plan regulation need only apply for and receive an exception to the
specific plan.  In this situation, a variance is not also required.



 



   (e)   Exception for Relief from Specific Plan Regulation and the
Same Type of Regulation With a Different Standard in Chapter I of this Code
Where Specific Plan Does Not Supersede the Code.  (Added by Ord. No.
173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)  If a specific plan contains a regulation that
conflicts with the same type of regulation but with a different standard
contained in an applicable provision of Chapter I of this Code and the
specific plan does not supersede the Code by its terms, then an applicant
seeking relief from those regulations must apply for and receive both an
exception to the specific plan and a variance for relief from those Code
provisions.



 



   (f)   Exception for Wireless Telecommunications Facilities. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of the first unnumbered paragraph of this
subdivision, the installation of wireless antennas and associated equipment
cabinets on the rooftops of buildings in the C and M Zones when established
in conformance with the standards contained in Section 12.21 A.21. do not
need a specific plan exception, except that rooftop antennas located within a
scenic parkway specific plan, scenic corridor specific plan, or a roadway
designated as a scenic highway within a specific plan area shall be subject
to a specific plan exception.  Any application involving the use, height,
installation or maintenance of wireless telecommunication facilities that do
not comply with the provisions of Section 12.21 A.21. and which are located
within specific plan areas shall be filed pursuant to Section 12.24 W.49. of
this Code and considered by the Zoning Administrator as the initial
decision-maker, except that applications located within a scenic parkway
specific plan, scenic corridor specific plan, or a roadway designated as a
scenic highway within a specific plan area shall be subject to a specific
plan exception.  (Amended by Ord. No. 177,120, Eff. 12/26/05.)



 



   (g)   Eldercare Facilities.  An applicant who files an application
involving Eldercare Facilities seeking relief from specific plan regulations
need not apply for a specific plan exception pursuant to Subsection F. of
this section but need only apply for and receive an approval pursuant to
Section 14.3.1 of this Code.  (Added by Ord. No. 178,063, Eff. 12/30/06.)



 



   2.   Findings.  The Area Planning Commission may permit an
exception from a specific plan if it makes all the following findings:



 



   (a)   That the strict application of the regulations of the specific
plan to the subject property would result in practical difficulties or
unnecessary hardships inconsistent with the general purpose and intent of the
specific plan;



 



   (b)   That there are exceptional circumstances or conditions
applicable to the subject property involved or to the intended use or
development of the subject property that do not apply generally to other
property in the specific plan area;



 



   (c)   That an exception from the specific plan is necessary for the
preservation and enjoyment of a substantial property right or use generally
possessed by other property within the specific plan area in the same zone
and vicinity but which, because of special circumstances and practical
difficulties or unnecessary hardships is denied to the property in question;



 



   (d)   That the granting of an exception will not be detrimental to
the public welfare or injurious to the property or improvements adjacent to
or in the vicinity of the subject property; and



 



   (e)   That the granting of an exception will be consistent with the
principles, intent and goals of the specific plan and any applicable element
of the general plan.



 



   3.   Decision by Area Planning Commission.



 



   (a)   The Area Planning Commission shall render a decision on an
application for an exception from a specific plan within 75 days after filing
unless the applicant and Area Planning Commission consent in writing to a
longer period.



 



   (b)   Decisions by the Area Planning Commission shall be supported
by written findings of fact based on evidence in the record.  Upon making a
decision upon an application for an exception from a specific plan, the Area
Planning Commission shall place a copy of its written findings, where
required, and decision on file in the City Planning Department and provide a
copy to:  the Department of Building and Safety; the Councilmember(s) having
jurisdiction over the specific plan area in which the property is located;
and the Department of Transportation, where appropriate.  Copies of the
decision shall also be provided by First Class Mail to: the applicant; the
Department of Neighborhood Empowerment; the chairperson of any design review
or plan review board having jurisdiction over the specific plan area in which
the property is located; and interested parties who have filed written
requests with the City Planning Department.



 



   4.   Effective Date of Decision.  The Area Planning Commission’s
decision shall become final after an elapsed period of 15 calendar days from
the date of mailing of the written decision, unless an appeal is filed on the
decision within that period pursuant to this subsection.



 



   5.   (Deleted by Ord. No. 182,106, Eff. 5/20/12.)



 



   6.   Failure to Act - Transfer of Jurisdiction from the Area
Planning Commission.  If the Area Planning Commission fails to act on an
application for an exception from a specific plan within the time limit
specified in this subsection, the applicant may file a request for a transfer
of jurisdiction to the City Council for a decision upon the original
application, in which case, the Area Planning Commission shall lose
jurisdiction.  A request for transfer of jurisdiction may be filed in any
public office of the Department of City Planning.



 



   The Council may approve the application subject to making the findings
contained in Subdivision 2. of this subsection, and may impose upon the
approval conditions it deems necessary in accordance with those findings. 
The action of the Council shall be adopted by a majority vote of the whole
Council within 45 days of the date the City Clerk receives the request for
the transfer.



 



   7.   Appeal of Area Planning Commission Decision.  An applicant or
any other person aggrieved by a decision of the Area Planning Commission may
appeal the decision to the City Council.  The appeal shall be filed within
15 days of the date of mailing of the decision on forms provided by the
Planning Department.  The appeal shall set forth specifically the points at
issue, the reasons for the appeal, and the basis upon which the appellant
claims there was an error or abuse of discretion by the Area Planning
Commission.  Any appeal not filed within the 15-day period shall not be
considered by the City Council.  The filing of an appeal stays proceedings
in the matter until the City Council has made a decision.  Once an appeal is
filed, the Area Planning Commission shall transmit the appeal and the file to
the City Council, together with any report responding to the allegations made
in the appeal.



 



   The Council may reverse or modify, in whole or in part, any decision of
the Area Planning Commission only by a two-thirds vote of the whole
Council.  The decision must contain a finding of fact showing why the
proposed exception to a specific plan complies or fails to comply with the
requirements of this section.  Any vote of the Council in which less than
two-thirds of the whole Council vote to reverse or modify the decision of the
Area Planning Commission shall be deemed to be an action denying the
appeal.  The failure of the Council to vote upon an appeal within 90 days
after the expiration of the appeal period, or within any additional period
agreed upon by the applicant and the Council, shall also be deemed a denial
of the appeal.



 



   8.   Hearing by Council.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,992, Eff.
7/6/01.)  Before acting on any appeal, or on any matter transferred to it
because of a failure to act, the City Council or its Committee shall set the
matter for hearing, giving the same notice as provided in Subdivision 1. of
this subsection.



 



   G.   Amendments to Specific Plans - City Planning Commission
Recommendation With City Council Decision.  The City Planning Commission
shall have the authority for making recommendations for amendments to
specific plans.  The procedures for amending specific plans are set forth in
Subsections A., C. and E. of Section 12.32, except that the publication and
mailing of the hearing notice indicating the time, place and purpose of the
City Planning Commission hearing shall be given at least 24 days prior to the
date of the hearing.  An amendment to a specific plan shall be required for
any of the following proposals:



 



   1.   To permit establishment of a new principal use or a change of
use that the specific plan specifically identifies as a prohibited use (Note:
a specific plan exception shall be required for alteration or enlargement of
an existing legal nonconforming use.);



 



   2.   To permit a use which exceeds the maximum number of permitted
establishments or the maximum permitted occupant load for that use within the
specific plan area or any of its subareas;



 



   3.   To permit a sign which the specific plan specifically
identifies as a prohibited sign;



 



   4.   To deviate from the requirements of a plan map footnote;



 



   5.   To make significant changes to environmental mitigation
measures which were adopted as part of the environmental clearance for the
specific plan;



 



   6.   To make changes to impact fees which affect implementation of
the specific plan or planned improvements;



 



   7.   To make boundary changes to the specific plan area or its
subareas;



 



   8.   To change highway/street designations;



 



   9.   Any request which causes an inconsistency with the applicable
community plan(s) and necessitates a community plan amendment; or



 



   10.   Other significant policy changes or modifications to specific
plan regulations which affect the entire specific plan area or any of its
subareas, as determined by the Director.



 



   H.   Interpretations of Specific Plans. The Director shall have
authority to interpret specific plans when there is a lack of clarity in the
meaning of their regulations.



 



   1.   Application Procedure.  To request a specific plan
interpretation, an applicant shall file an application with the Department of
City Planning pursuant to the application procedure set forth in Paragraph
(a) of Subdivision 2 of Subsection B of this section.  The application shall
include a reference to the specific plan regulation(s) for which
clarification is requested and a narrative description of why a clarification
is necessary for the project or subject property involved.



 



   2.   Director’s Decision.  Upon receipt of a deemed complete
application, the Director’s written interpretation shall be subject to the
same time limit to act, transmittal requirement and effective date of
decision as set forth in Paragraphs (a) through (c) of Subdivision 4 of
Subsection C.



 



   3.   Appeals.  The City Planning Commission shall hear appeals on
Director interpretations which affect an entire specific plan area or any of
its subareas, and the Area Planning Commission shall hear appeals on Director
interpretations which are applicable only on a site specific basis.  The
procedures for filing and processing appeals of Director interpretations
shall otherwise be the same as those set forth in Subdivision 6 of Subsection
C of this section.



 



   I.   Optional Public Informational Meeting.  When provided for in
individual specific plans, the Director may hold a public informational
meeting in connection with the Planning Department’s review of a proposed
project pursuant to the specific plan procedures set forth in Subsections C,
D or E of this section, if the Director decides that the proposed project may
have a potentially significant effect on adjoining properties or on the
immediate neighborhood, or that it is likely to evoke public controversy, or
that it would be in the public interest to conduct the meeting.  In those
cases, written notice of the meeting shall be sent by First Class Mail at
least 15 days prior to the meeting date to:  the applicant; the owner(s) of
the property involved; owners of properties within 100 feet of the exterior
boundaries of the property involved; the Councilmember(s) having jurisdiction
over the specific plan area in which the property is located; to the
Department of Neighborhood Empowerment; the chair of any design review or
plan review board having jurisdiction over the specific plan area in which
the property is located; and interested parties who have requested notice in
writing.



 



   J.   Decision-Makers and Appellate Bodies for Other Specific Plan
Provisions.  For those specific plan provisions which are not addressed
elsewhere in this section, the initial decision-maker and appellate bodies
responsible for implementing those provisions shall be the Area Planning
Commission and Council, respectively, unless otherwise identified in the
following table.  Notwithstanding the provisions of any specific plan to the
contrary, there shall be only one level of appeal from any initial decision.



 




DECISION / APPELLATE BODIES FOR OTHER SPECIFIC PLAN PROVISIONS




 



 

 

SPECIFIC PLAN PROVISION

 

Location

 

Decision Body

 

Decision or Appeal Body






1

 

ALAMEDA DISTRICT Project Plan Compliance - Phase II

 

Ord. No. 171,139



Sec 5A3

 

CPC

 

CCL




2

 

CENTRAL CITY WEST



TFAR/Resid. Density

 

Ord. No. 167,944



Sec 7

 

APC

 

CCL





 

CENTRAL CITY WEST



Phasing-Annual Report

 

Ord. No. 167,944



Sec 16C

 

CPC

 

CCL




3

 

CENTURY CITY NORTH



Project Permit (Second Phase)

 

Ord. No. 156,122



Sec 3C

 

CPC

 

CCL





 

CENTURY CITY NORTH



Alternate Trip Generation Calcs

 

Ord. No. 156,122



Sec 6

 

APC

 

CCL





 

CENTURY CITY NORTH



Public Uses

 

Ord. No. 156,122



Sec 7E

 

APC

 

CCL





 

CENTURY CITY NORTH



Changes to Pedestrian Corridor

 

Ord. No. 156,122



Sec 10B9

 

APC

 

CCL




4

 

COASTAL TRANSPORTATION CORRIDOR



Trip Generation Calcs

 

Ord. No. 168,999



Sec 5C1

 

APC

 

CCL





 

COASTAL TRANSPORTATION CORRIDOR



Transportation Provisions

 

Ord. No. 168,999

 

DOT

 

APC





 

COASTAL TRANSPORTATION CORRIDOR



Project Phasing Program

 

Ord. No. 168,999



Sec 8A

 

Director/DOT

 

APC





 

COASTAL TRANSPORTATION CORRIDOR



Public Pedestrian Facilities

 

Ord. No. 168,999



Sec 8B

 

Director/



DOT/ City Engineer

 

APC




5

 

HOLLYWOODLAND



Project Design Approval

 

Ord. No. 168,121



Sec 9F

 

Director

 

APC




6

 

LAX/ EL SEGUNDO DUNES

 

Ord. No. 167,904



Sec 4

 

Director

 

APC




7

 

OXFORD TRIANGLE



Density Allowance

 

Ord. No. 170,155



Sec 6, 7

 

APC

 

CCL




8

 

PLAYA VISTA AREA B



Time Limits

 

Ord. No. 160,521



165, 638



Sec 12

 

Director

 

APC





 

PLAYA VISTA AREA B



Plot Plan Review

 

Ord. No. 160,521



165, 638



Sec 7, 13

 

Director

 

APC




9

 

PLAYA VISTA AREA C



Time Limits

 

Ord. No. 165,639



Sec 12

 

Director

 

APC





 

PLAYA VISTA AREA C



Plot Plan Review

 

Ord. No. 165,639



Sec 7, 13

 

Director

 

APC




10

 

PLAYA VISTA AREA D



Time Limits

 

Ord. No. 160,523



170,785



Sec 10

 

Director

 

APC





 

PLAYA VISTA AREA D



Plot Plan Review

 

Ord. No. 160,523



170,785



Sec 7, 11

 

Director

 

APC




11

 

PORTER RANCH



Landscape Plans, Uses, Height

 

Ord. No. 166,068



Sec 13

 

Director

 

APC




12

 

VENTURA/CAHUENGA BLVD



Phasing-Certification of Compliance

 

Ord. No. 171,240



Sec 6J

 

CPC

 

CCL




13

 

WARNER CENTER



Transportation Requirements

 

Ord. No. 168,873



168,984, 171,529



Sec 11

 

DOT/ Director



B&S

 

APC





 

WARNER CENTER



Phasing Program

 

Ord. No. 168,873



168,984, 171,529



Sec 16

 

CPC

 

CCL





 

WARNER CENTER



Traffic Mitigation Plan

 

Ord. No. 168,873



168,984, 171,529



Sec 11F

 

DOT, Director

 

APC





 

WARNER CENTER



Residential Neighborhood



Protection Program

 

Ord. No. 168,873



168,984, 171,529



Sec 11K

 

APC

 

CCL




14

 

WEST LA TIMP



Phasing Program

 

Ord. No. 171,492



Sec 7

 

CPC

 

CCL





 



   Legend:



   APC - Area Planning Commission



   CCL - City Council



   CPC - City Planning Commission



   Director - Director of Planning



   DOT - Department of Transportation



 



 



SEC. 11.5.8.  GENERAL PLAN REVIEW.



   (Added by Ord. No. 184,745, Eff. 12/13/16.)



 



   A.   Planning Areas.  The City is hereby divided into 37 planning
areas.  Each planning area constitutes an area for which either a community
plan, a district plan, or other portion of the Land Use Element of the
General Plan has been adopted by the City.  The boundaries of each planning
area shall be those of the applicable adopted community or district plan, or
other portion of the Land Use Element of the General Plan as they existed on
enactment of this section.  These boundaries may be only changed by
amendment to the General Plan pursuant to the procedures set forth in Section
11.5.6 of this Code.  No amendment to a plan for any of the 37 planning
areas, including reduction in the number of such areas, changes in their
respective boundaries, land uses permitted within or at any particular
location in any such area, or any other material change, may be made until
the completion of a comprehensive assessment of such proposed changes by the
Planning Department to ensure that such changes do not:



 



   1.   Reduce the capacity for creation and preservation of affordable
housing and access to local jobs; or



 



   2.   Undermine California Government Code Section 65915 or any other
affordable housing incentive program; and



 



   The changes must include a program to create and monitor an inventory
of units within the Community Plan Area that are: subject to a recorded
covenant, ordinance or law that restricts rents to levels affordable to
persons and families of Lower or Very Low-Income; subject to the City Rent
Stabilization Ordinance; and/or occupied by Lower-Income or Very Low-Income
households.



 



   B.   Action on Proposed Amendments.  The City Planning Commission
shall receive the assessment by the Planning Department and shall by vote
make a recommendation to accept or reject the amendment.  The Commission's
recommendation will be received by City Council and the Council shall vote to
either accept or reject the proposed amendment.  The current plans for the
37 planning areas shall remain in full force and effect until or unless the
City Council votes to amend them in accordance with this section.



 



 



SEC. 11.5.9.  WITHDRAWAL OF APPLICATION.



   (Added by Ord. No. 177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.)



 



   A.   Procedures.  At any time before the initial decision-maker or
appellate body on appeal makes a final decision on an application pursuant to
the Code sections listed in Subsection C. below, the applicant may withdraw
the application.



 



   B.   Limitations.  The withdrawal of the application must be in
writing and does not require the decision-maker to concur.  The withdrawal
of the application shall be permanent and any associated authorization shall
be void.



 



   C.   Code Sections.  This section applies to applications filed
pursuant to Sections 11.5.6, 11.5.7, 11.5.14, 12.20.2, 12.20.3, 12.21, 12.22,
12.23, 12.24, 12.25, 12.26, 12.27, 12.28, 12.30, 12.32, 12.36, 12.50, 13.01
H., 14.00, 14.5.6, 16.01, 16.02, 16.04, 16.05, 16.50, and Articles 7 and 8 of
Chapter 1 of this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 186,325, Eff. 11/11/19.)



 



 



SEC. 11.5.10.  WITHDRAWAL OF APPEAL.



   (Added by Ord. No. 177,335, Eff. 3/20/06.)



 



   A.   Procedures.  The appellant(s) may withdraw an appeal of a
determination made pursuant to the sections listed in Subsection C. below,
provided that the withdrawal is filed with the Department at least fifteen
days prior to the public hearing by the appellate decision-maker or appellate
body on the appeal subject to the following limitations.



 



   B.   Limitations.  The withdrawal of the appeal shall be in writing
and does not require the decision-maker to concur.  The withdrawal shall be
filed with the Department.  If the withdrawal of the appeal is received by
the Department after the close of the original appeal period, the Department
shall notify the same persons who received notice of the decision that was
appealed, that an appeal had been filed and was now withdrawn.  The notice
shall state that the appeal period is being reopened.  The reopened appeal
period shall run for ten days from the date the notice of withdrawal of the
appeal is mailed.  If more than one appeal was filed, the appeal period is
not reopened unless the withdrawal of the appeal would result in no appeal
going forward.  The appeal period shall only be reopened once.  If the
withdrawal is received by the Department before any required public hearing
notice has been mailed, then the time for the appellate body or appellate
decision-maker to act shall be extended for ten days.  If the withdrawal is
received by the Department after the public hearing notice has been mailed,
then any appeal filed during the reopened appeal period shall be heard on the
same date and time as set forth in the previously mailed public hearing
notice and no further notice of the appeal hearing is required.



 



   If the withdrawal of the appeal, and the subsequent reopening of the
appeal period, results in no appeal going forward, then the withdrawal of the
appeal shall be permanent and the decision from which the appeal was taken
shall automatically become final at the end of the appeal or reopened appeal
period.



 



   C.   Application to Specific Appeal Provisions.  This section
applies to appeals filed pursuant to Sections 11.5.6, 11.5.7, 11.5.14,
12.20.2, 12.20.3, 12.21, 12.22, 12.23, 12.24, 12.25, 12.26, 12.28, 12.30,
12.32, 12.36, 12.50, 13.01 H., 14.00, 14.5.6, 16.01, 16.02, 16.04, 16.05,
16.50, and Articles 7 and 8 of Chapter 1 of this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No.
186,325, Eff. 11/11/19.)



 



 



SEC. 11.5.11.  AFFORDABLE HOUSING.



   (Added by Ord. No. 184,745, Eff. 12/13/16.)



 



   (a)   Affordable Housing.  To be eligible for a discretionary
General Plan amendment pursuant to Subdivision B. of Section 11.5.6 of the
Los Angeles Municipal Code or otherwise, or any zone change or
height-district change that results in increased allowable residential floor
area, density or height, or allows a residential use where previously not
allowed, Projects with ten or more residential dwelling units shall meet one
of the following on-site affordability provisions, or satisfy one of the
alternative options in subdivision (b) and shall comply with the job
standards in subdivision (i).



 



   1.   Rental Projects shall provide the following:



 



   (i)   No less than the affordability percentage corresponding to the
level of density increase as provided in California Government Code Section
65915(f), inclusive of any Replacement Units; or



 



   (ii)   If the General Plan amendment, zone change or height district
change results in a residential density increase greater than 35%, then the
Project shall provide no less than 5% of the total units at rents affordable
to Extremely Low Income households, and either 6% of the total units at rents
affordable to Very Low Income households or 15% of the total units at rents
affordable to Lower Income households, inclusive of any Replacement Units; or



 



   (iii)   If the General Plan amendment, zone change or height
district change allows a residential use where not previously allowed, then
the Project shall provide no less than 5% of the total units at rents
affordable to Extremely Low Income households, and either 11% of the total
units at rents affordable to Very Low Income households or 20% of the total
units at rents affordable to Lower Income households, inclusive of any
Replacement Units.



 



   2.   For-sale Projects shall provide the following:



 



   (i)   No less than the affordability percentage corresponding to the
level of density increase as provided in California Government Code Section
65915(f), inclusive of any Replacement Units; or



 



   (ii)   If the general plan amendment, zone change or height district
change results in a residential density increase greater than 35% or allows a
residential use where not previously allowed, then the Project shall provide
no less than 11% of the total units at rents affordable to Very Low Income
households, or 20% of the total units at rents affordable to Lower Income
households, or 40% of the total units at rents affordable to Moderate Income
households, inclusive of any Replacement Units.



 



   3.   100% affordable.  Each residential unit in the Project,
exclusive of a manager's unit or units, is affordable to, and occupied by,
either a Lower or Very Low Income household.



 



   4.   Projects with both for-sale and rental units.  When a Project
includes both for-sale and rental dwelling units, the provisions of this
Section that apply to for-sale residential development shall apply to that
portion of the Project that consists of for-sale dwelling units, while the
provisions of this Section that apply to rental dwelling units shall apply to
that portion of the development that consists of rental dwelling units.



 



   All Projects qualifying for development bonuses pursuant to this
Section shall be required to meet any applicable replacement requirements of
California Government Code Section 65915(c)(3).



 



   A Developer seeking and receiving a density or development bonus under
the provisions of California Government Code Section 65915 or any other State
or local program that provides development bonuses shall not be eligible for
the development bonuses pursuant to this Section.  For purposes of this
provision, development bonuses shall include discretionary General Plan
amendments, zone changes, and height district changes.



 



   (b)   Alternative compliance options.  A Project may satisfy the
affordability provisions of this section through the following off-site
options in lieu of providing affordable units on site:



 



   1.   Off-site Construction.  The affordability provisions of this
Section may be satisfied by constructing off-site affordable units at the
following rate:



 



   (i)   No less than the same number of on-site affordable units, at
the same or greater mix of unit type and affordability levels as provided in
paragraph (a), if constructed within one-half mile of the outer edge of the
Project;



 



   (ii)   No less than 1.25 times the number of on-site affordable
units, at the same or greater mix of unit type and affordability levels as
provided in paragraph (a), if constructed within 2 miles of the outer edge of
the Project;



 



   (iii)   No less than 1.5 times the number of on-site affordable
units, at the same or greater mix of unit type and affordability levels as
provided in paragraph (a), if constructed within 3 miles of the outer edge of
the Project.



 



   The off-site units created pursuant to this paragraph must be on a site
that is zoned for residential development at a density to accommodate at
least the number of otherwise required units; is suitable for development of
the units in terms of configuration, physical characteristics, location,
access, adjacent uses and other relevant planning and development criteria;
and environmental review has been completed to the satisfaction of the City
prior to acceptance of the site by the City.  The development of off-site
affordable units shall include integration of community space and services as
required by the Housing and Community Investment Department for comparable
affordable housing development.  The first Certificate of Occupancy for the
off-site units shall be issued prior to or concurrent with the first
Certificate of Occupancy for the original Project.  In no event shall the
Certificate of Occupancy for the market rate units for the original project
be issued prior to the Certificate of Occupancy for the affordable off-site
units.  Individual affordable units constructed as part of an off-site
project under this Section shall not receive development subsidies from any
Federal, State or local program established for the purpose of providing
affordable housing, and shall not be counted to satisfy any affordable
housing requirement for the off-site development.  Other units in the same
offsite project may receive such subsidies.  In addition, subsidies may be
used, only with the express written permission by the Department of Housing
and Community Investment, to deepen the affordability of an affordable unit
beyond the level of affordability required by this Section.



 



   2.   Off-site Acquisition.  The affordability provisions of this
Section may be satisfied by the acquisition of property containing At-Risk
Affordable Units and converting the units to non-profit, Community Land
Trust, and/or tenant ownership prior to issuance of the Certificate of
Occupancy for the original Project.  Prior to transferring ownership to a
qualified entity, the At-Risk Affordable Units shall achieve a minimum of a
C2 rating based on the Fannie Mae Uniform Appraisal Dataset Property
Condition Ratings, as assessed and certified by the Housing and Community
Investment Department (HCID), or as required by HCID to be completed by the
Developer and subsequently certified by HCID.  Any entity taking ownership
of At-Risk Affordable Units pursuant to this Section shall record an
affordability covenant, consistent with the provisions of subsection (d),
guaranteeing affordability to Lower or Very Low Income Households.  The
number of At Risk Affordable Units that must be acquired and converted to
non-profit or tenant ownership under this subdivision shall be as follows:



 



   (i)   No less than the same number of on-site affordable units, at
the same or greater mix of unit type and affordability levels as provided in
paragraph (a), if acquired within one-half mile of the outer edge of the
Project;



 



   (ii)   No less than 1.25 times the number of on-site affordable
units, at the same or greater mix of unit type and affordability levels as
provided in paragraph (a), if acquired within 1 mile of the outer edge of the
Project;



 



   (iii)   No less than1.5 times the number of on-site affordable
units, and affordability levels as provided in paragraph at the same or
greater mix of unit type if acquired within 2 miles of the outer edge of the
Project.



 



   3.   In-Lieu Fee.  The affordability provisions of this Section may
be satisfied by the payment of a fee to the City in lieu of constructing the
affordable units within the Project.  The in lieu fee shall be determined by
the City based on the following:



 



   (i)   The number of units equivalent to 1.1 times the required
number of on-site affordable units pursuant to paragraph (a), in the same
proportion of affordability, multiplied by the applicable Affordability Gap,
as defined herein.



 



   (ii)   No later than 90 days from the enactment of this ordinance,
the City shall produce a study identifying the Affordability Gap for rental
and ownership units of each bedroom size (studio, 1 bedroom, 2 bedroom and 3
bedroom) for each required affordability level.  For rental housing, the
study shall collect and determine, by unit type and affordability level, the
following information from recently completed affordable housing projects
funded by the City's Affordable Housing Trust Fund: total development costs
and operating expenses.  The study shall also determine the amounts of
permanent financing available based on restricted rents and prevailing
interest rates.  The difference between the total development cost and
permanent financing amount shall be the Affordability Gaps per unit by unit
type and affordability level.  For ownership housing, the study shall
identify the market median sales prices by unit type in the 37 Community Plan
areas.  It shall determine the restricted sales prices of for-sale units by
unit type and affordability level.  The difference between the market median
sales price and the restricted sales price shall be the Affordability Gaps
per unit by unit type and affordability level.



 



   (iii)   The City shall adjust the fee every two years, based on the
results of a new Affordability Gaps study (as defined Section 5(b)(3)(ii)). 
An Affordability Gaps study, the proposed adjusted Affordability Gaps, and
the adjusted fees shall be published within 2 years of the date that the
original Affordability Gaps study is released, and consecutively thereafter
by the date that is 2 years after the release of the previous Gaps study.



 



   The fee is due and payable to the Affordable Housing Trust Fund at the
time of and in no event later than issuance of the first building permit,
concurrent with and proportional to project phases.  The Developer shall
have an option to defer payment of all or a portion of the fee upon agreeing
to pay a Deferral Surcharge, with the fee and the Deferral Surcharge due and
payable at the time of and in no event later than issuance of the Certificate
of Occupancy.  The Deferral Surcharge will be assessed at the Wall Street
Journal Prime Rate plus 200 basis points at the time such fee is due, at the
issuance of the building permit.  The Deferral Surcharge fee shall be
deposited into the Affordable Housing Trust Fund and accounted for and used
as provided in Section (c).



 



   (c)   Use of Funds.  All monies contributed pursuant to this
Section shall be deposited in the City's Affordable Housing Trust Fund.  All
funds collected under this Section shall be used in the following manner:



 



   1.   Except as provided in Subdivision (2) below, the funds
collected under this Section shall be used to create and/or preserve housing
affordable to Extremely Low-, Very Low-, and Lower-Income households.



 



   2.   The City shall designate and separately account for all
Deferral Surcharge payments that it receives under this Section to support
the creation and/or preservation of affordable housing within one-half mile
of a Major Transit Stop ("TOC area"), with priority to TOC Areas where there
is a demonstrated decline in units affordable to and/or occupied by Extremely
Low, Very Low and/or Lower Income households.  Use of the Deferral Surcharge
funds shall include but not be limited to the following:



 



   (i)   Acquisition and/or remediation of land, and/or acquisition,
construction, rehabilitation, and/or financing of housing units by a
Community Land Trust or non-profit entity which guarantees perpetual
affordability of these units for Extremely Low, Very Low and/or Lower-Income
Households or a term of affordability of these units that has a duration of a
minimum of 55 years.



 



   (ii)   Funding for proactive enforcement of the City's Rent
Stabilization Ordinance.



 



   (d)   Continuing Affordability / Standards for Affordable Units.



 



   1.   All affordable rental housing units created or acquired
pursuant to this Section shall be subject to an affordability covenant
acceptable to the Housing and Community Investment Department, and recorded
with the Los Angeles County Recorder, guaranteeing continuing affordability
to the targeted income group for no less than 55 years.  In addition, when
units are acquired and conveyed pursuant to the Off-Site Acquisition option,
the Developer and/or entity taking ownership of the units shall create and
implement a plan to prevent involuntary displacement of current tenants. 
Affordable units provided under this Section shall be comparable to the
market rate units in the Project (or off-site location in the case of
off-site affordable units) in terms of unit type, number of bedrooms per
unit, quality of exterior appearance, energy efficiency, and overall quality
of construction.



 



   2.   All for-sale housing units created pursuant to this Section
shall be subject to an affordability covenant acceptable to the Los Angeles
Housing and Community Investment Department, and recorded with the Los
Angeles County Recorder, consistent with the for-sale requirements of
California Government Code Section 65915(c)(2).



 



   3.   A longer term of affordability may be required if the Project
receives a subsidy which requires a longer term of affordability.  If the
duration of affordability covenants provided for in this subsection conflicts
with any other government requirement, the longest duration shall control.



 



   (e)   Developer Incentives.  In addition to the requested General
Plan amendments, zone changes and/or height district changes, a Project that
provides affordable housing consistent with this Section shall also be
entitled to three incentives or concessions specified in California
Government Code Section 65915(k) or the applicable Affordable Housing
Incentive Program.

   (f)   Processing.  A Project that provides affordable housing
consistent with this Section shall be entitled to review and processing by
the Expedited Processing Section of the Planning Department dedicated solely
to processing entitlements for such Projects with the goal of expediting such
Projects.



 



   (g)   City Council Approved Adjustments to Affordable Housing
Set-asides Contained Herein.  The City may, by majority vote of City
Council, adjust the affordable housing percentages set forth in this Section
upon a showing of substantial evidence that such adjustments are necessary to
maximize affordable housing while ensuring a reasonable return on investment
for Developers.



 



   (h)   Waiver/Adjustment.  Notwithstanding any other provision of
this Section, the requirements of this Section maybe waived or adjusted only
if a Project applicant shows, based on substantial evidence, that compliance
with its requirements would result in a deprivation of the applicant's
constitutional rights.  The applicant shall bear the burden of presenting
substantial evidence to support the request and set forth in detail the
factual and legal basis for the claim, including all supporting technical
documentation.



 



   In determining whether an applicant has presented substantial evidence
to support the request for waiver/adjustment, if upon legal advice provided
by or at the behest of the City Attorney, it is determined that applying the
requirements of this Section would effectuate an unconstitutional taking of
property or otherwise have an unconstitutional application to the property,
the requirements of this Section shall be adjusted or waived only to the
extent necessary to avoid an unconstitutional result.  If an adjustment or
waiver is granted, any change in the use within the project shall invalidate
the adjustment or waiver.  If it is determined that no violation of the
United States or California Constitutions would occur through application of
this Section, the requirements of this Section remain fully applicable.



 



   (i)   All building and construction work on the project will be
performed at all tiers by contractors which (a) are licensed by the State of
California and the City of Los Angeles; (b) shall make a good-faith effort to
ensure that at least 30% of all their respective workforces' construction
workers' hours of Project Work shall be performed by permanent residents of
the City of Los Angeles of which at least 10% of all their respective
workforces' construction workers' hours of Project Work shall be performed by
Transitional Workers whose primary place of residence is within a 5-mile
radius of the covered project; (c) employ only construction workers which
possess all licenses and certifications required by the State of California
and the City of Los Angeles; (d) pay their construction workers performing
project work the area standard wages in the project area; and (e) have at
least 60% of their respective construction workforces on the project from: 
(1) workers who have graduated from a Joint Labor Management apprenticeship
training program approved by the State of California, or have at least as
many hours of on-the job experience in the applicable craft which would be
required to graduate from such a state approved apprenticeship training
program, and (2) registered apprentices in an apprenticeship training program
approved by the State of California or an out-of-state, federally-approved
apprenticeship program.  The Department of Public Works, Bureau of Contract
Administration, shall bear administrative responsibilities for the labor
standards required by this subsection.



 



   (j)   Definitions.



 



   "At-Risk Affordable Unit" shall mean any residential dwelling unit that
receives government assistance under prescribed federal, State, and/or local
programs, or any combination of rental assistance and is eligible to convert
to market rate due to termination (opt-out) of a rent subsidy contract,
prepayment of a subsidized mortgage, or expiration of rental restrictions. 
These assistance programs include, but are not limited to, Housing Choice
Vouchers [formerly Section 8], project-based rental assistance, subsidized
mortgage programs (e.g., FHA), or expiring rent/deed restrictions with the
use of State or local funding programs, including Community Redevelopment
Agency Covenants.



 



   "Community Land Trust" shall mean a California nonprofit corporation
that:  (1) has no part of its net earnings inuring to the benefit of any
member, founder, contributor, or individual; (2) is neither sponsored by,
controlled by, nor under the direction of a for-profit organization; (3) has
a corporate membership of adult residents of a particular geographic area as
described in the bylaws of the corporation; (4) has a board of directors
that:  (A) includes a majority of members who are elected by the corporate
membership; (B) includes representation by persons occupying and/or leasing
any structural improvements on the land; and (C) includes representation by
persons residing within the geographic area specified in the bylaws of the
corporation who neither lease land from the corporation nor occupy structural
improvements controlled by the corporation; (5) acquires and retains parcels
of land, primarily for conveyance under long-term ground leases; (6)
transfers ownership of many or all of the structural improvements located on
such leased parcels to the lessees; and (7) retains a preemptive option to
purchase such structural improvements at a price determined by formula that
is designed to ensure that the improvements remain affordable to low and
moderate income households in perpetuity.



 



   "Developer" shall mean the owner of the Project and, if different from
the owner, any person, firm, partnership, association, joint venture,
corporation, or any entity or combination of entities which develops or
causes to be developed the residential housing project and, if applicable,
provides off-site affordable units, together with their successors and
assigns, but does not include a lender, any governmental entity or the
general contractor working for any developer.



 



   "Economically Disadvantaged Area" means a zip code that includes a
census tract or portion thereof in which the median annual household income
is less than $40,000 per year, as measured and reported by the U.S. Census
Bureau in the 2010 U.S. Census and as updated by the parties upon the U.S.
Census Bureau issuing updated Median Annual Household Income data by census
tract in the American Community Survey.



 



   "Extremely Economically Disadvantaged Area" means a zip code that
includes a census tract or portion thereof in which the median annual
household income is less than $32,000 per year, as measured and reported by
the U.S. Census Bureau in the 2010 U.S. Census and as updated by the parties
upon the U.S. Census Bureau issuing updated Median Annual Household Income
data by census tract in the American Community Survey.



 



   "Extremely Low-Income Households" is defined in Section 50106 of the
Health and Safety Code.



 



   "Lower Income Households" is defined in Section 50079.5 of the Health
and Safety Code.



 



   "Project" shall mean the construction, erection, alteration of, or
addition to a structure.  The term Project shall not include interior or
exterior improvements that do not increase the floor area over that of an
existing structure, and shall not mean any construction for which a building
permit or demolition permit is required to comply with an order issued by the
Department of Building and Safety to repair, remove, or demolish an unsafe or
substandard condition, or to rebuild as a result of destruction by fire,
earthquake or natural disaster, provided that the development is not
prohibited by any provision of the Los Angeles Municipal Code and the
development does not increase the square footage beyond what previously
existed on the site.



 



   "Replacement Unit" shall mean any unit that would need to be replaced
pursuant to California Government Code Section 65915(c)(3) if the Project was
seeking a density bonus.



 



   "Transitional Worker" means an individual who, at the time of
commencing work on the project, resides in an Economically Disadvantaged Area
or Extremely Economically Disadvantaged Area and faces at least two of the
following barriers to employment:  (1) being homeless; (2) being a custodial
single parent; (3) receiving public assistance; (4) lacking a GED or high
school diploma; (5) having a criminal record or other involvement with the
criminal justice system; (6) suffering from chronic unemployment; (7)
emancipated from the foster care system; (8) being a veteran; or (9) being an
apprentice with less than 15% of the apprenticeship hours required to
graduate to journey level in a program.



 



   "Very Low-Income Households" is defined in Section 50105 of the Health
and Safety Code.



 



 



SEC. 11.5.12.  DELEGATION OF COUNCIL'S AUTHORITY TO CONSENT TO EXTENSIONS OF
TIME FOR COUNCIL ACTION.



   (Added by Ord. No. 184,833, Eff. 5/1/17.)



 



   Where extensions on the City Council's time to act on a matter may be
granted by mutual consent of an applicant and the City Council, the Council
President or the Council President's councilmember designee may consent to a
time extension on behalf of the City Council.



 



 



SEC. 11.5.13.  CEQA PROCEDURES.



   (Added by Ord. No. 186,338, Eff. 11/27/19.)



 



   A.   Purpose.  This section is intended to implement California
Public Resources Code Sections 21151(c) and 21155.2(b)(6) consistent with the
requirements of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA).



 



   B.   Definition.  "Project" in this section is as defined by Public
Resources Code Section 21065 and CEQA Guidelines Section 15378.



 



   C.   Appeal.  When any decision-maker in any action authorized by
this Chapter, other than the City Council, certifies an environmental impact
report, adopts a negative declaration, a mitigated negative declaration, or a
sustainable communities environmental assessment; or determines that the
Project subject to approval under this Chapter is not subject to CEQA, that
certification, approval, or determination may be appealed to the City
Council, provided that:



 



   1.   all administrative appeals of the Project approval were
exhausted;



 



   2.   the appeal is filed with the Department of City Planning within
15 days of the Project approval becoming final; and



 



   3.   the appeal is filed in a form and manner required by the
Department of City Planning.



 



   D.   Stay.  Upon the timely filing of an appeal pursuant to
Subsection C., there shall be a stay on the Project approval and any
discretionary or ministerial permits issued in reliance upon the Project
approval.  Notwithstanding any contrary language in this Code, the time to
act on any related Project approval shall be tolled until the appeal is
decided by the City Council.



 



   E.   Hearing and Decision.  The City Council shall act on the CEQA
appeal within 75 days after the expiration of the appeal period or within any
additional period mutually agreed upon by the applicant and the City
Council.  The City Council shall hold a public hearing before acting on the
appeal.  Notice of the hearing shall be given by mail at least ten days
before the hearing to the applicant; the appellant; any person or entity that
has made a request in writing to receive CEQA notices; and any responsible or
trustee agencies.



 



 



SEC. 11.5.14.  REDEVELOPMENT PLAN PROCEDURES.



   (Added by Ord. No. 186,325, Eff. 11/11/19.)



 



   A.   Objectives.  The objectives of this section are to establish
uniform citywide procedures, standards, and criteria for reviewing and
processing Redevelopment Plan Projects, including Administrative Review,
Project Compliance, Project Modification, Project Adjustments, and
Redevelopment Plan Amendments in accordance with applicable provisions of the
Charter, this Code, City ordinances, state law, and any applicable specific
plan, supplemental use district, or other land use regulation adopted by the
City.



 



   B.   Relationship of the Redevelopment Regulations to City
Ordinances.



 



   1.   The Redevelopment Regulations are in addition to the provisions
of Chapter 1 of this Code and any other relevant City ordinances.



 



   2.   Whenever the Redevelopment Regulations conflict with provisions
contained in Chapter 1 of this Code or any other relevant City ordinances,
the Redevelopment Regulations shall supersede those provisions, unless the
applicable Redevelopment Regulations specifically provide otherwise or are
amended.



 



   C.   Definitions.  For purposes of this chapter, certain terms and
words are defined below.  Words and phrases contained in this section and
not defined below shall have the meanings set forth in the applicable
Redevelopment Plan or Section 12.03 of this Code (with priority given to
definitions in the applicable Redevelopment Plan where there is a conflict
between the Redevelopment Plan and this Code):



 



   "Community Redevelopment Agency" or "CRA" or "CRA/LA" shall mean the
former Community Redevelopment Agency of the City of Los Angeles, which was
dissolved on February 1, 2012.



 



   "Community Redevelopment Law" shall mean the Community Redevelopment
Law of the State of California (Health and Safety Code Section 33000 et
seq.), as amended.



 



   "CRA/LA, a Designated Local Authority" or "CRA/LA-DLA" shall mean the
public body formed pursuant to Health and Safety Code Section 34173(c)(3) to
serve as the successor agency to the former CRA.



 



   "Historic Resource" shall mean designated or surveyed resources
including properties listed in or formally determined eligible for listing in
the National Register of Historic Places, the California Register of
Historical Resources, locally designated Historic-Cultural Monuments (HCMs)
and Historic Preservation Overlay Zones (HPOZs); and properties identified as
significant per eligibility criteria in SurveyLA and the Community
Redevelopment Agency surveys or any subsequent City sanctioned or accepted
surveys.



 



   "Lower Income Household" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in the
Development Guidelines and Controls for Residential Hotels in the City Center
and Central Industrial Redevelopment Project Areas, adopted by the former CRA
on June 15, 2006.



 



   "Redevelopment Plan" shall mean any of the following redevelopment
plans:  (i) the Adelante Eastside Redevelopment Project Redevelopment Plan,
as adopted by Ordinance No. 172,514, and as amended; (ii) the
Broadway/Manchester Redevelopment Plan, as adopted by Ordinance No. 170,175,
and as amended; (iii) the Central Industrial Redevelopment Plan, as adopted
by Ordinance No. 174,978, and as amended; (iv) the Chinatown Redevelopment
Plan, as adopted by Ordinance No. 153,365, and as  amended; (v) the City
Center Redevelopment Plan, as adopted by Ordinance No. 174,593, and as
amended; (vi) the Council District 9 Corridors Redevelopment Plan, as adopted
by Ordinance No. 170,807, and as  amended; (vii) the Crenshaw Redevelopment
Plan, as adopted by Ordinance No. 158,933, and as amended; (viii) the
Crenshaw/Slauson Redevelopment Plan, as  adopted by Ordinance No. 170,734,
and as  amended; (ix) the Exposition/University Park Redevelopment Plan, as
adopted by Ordinance No. 131,730, and as amended; (x) the Hollywood
Redevelopment Plan, as adopted by Ordinance No. 175,236, and as amended; (xi)
the Laurel Canyon Commercial Corridor Redevelopment Plan, as adopted by
Ordinance No. 180,695, and as amended; (xii) the Mid-City Redevelopment Plan,
as adopted by Ordinance No. 171,064, and as amended; (xiii) the North
Hollywood Redevelopment Plan, as adopted by Ordinance No. 171,745, and as
amended; (xiv) the Pacific Corridor Redevelopment Plan, as adopted by
Ordinance No. 174,549, and as amended; (xv) the Vermont/Manchester
Redevelopment Plan, as adopted by Ordinance No. 171,065, and as amended;
(xvi) the Watts Corridors Redevelopment Plan, as adopted by Ordinance No.
170,769 and as amended; (xvii) the Western/Slauson Redevelopment Plan, as
adopted by Ordinance No. 171,063, and as amended; (xviii) the Westlake
Redevelopment Plan, as adopted by Ordinance No. 172,597, and as amended; and
(xix) the Wilshire Center/Koreatown Redevelopment Plan, as adopted by
Ordinance No. 170,806, and as amended.



 



   "Redevelopment Plan Amendment" shall mean an amendment to a
Redevelopment Plan adopted by the City Council by ordinance after the
effective date of this ordinance.



 



   "Redevelopment Plan Project" shall mean any proposed development
activity within a Redevelopment Project Area with an Unexpired Redevelopment
Plan that includes the issuance of a building, grading, demolition, sign or
change of use permit.  A Redevelopment Plan Project shall not include
activity that consists solely of interior remodeling, interior rehabilitation
or interior repair work.  Notwithstanding the forgoing, the following types
of projects shall be considered a Redevelopment Plan Project:  (i)
development activity involving an Historic Resource, including any interior
remodeling, interior rehabilitation, or interior repair work that affects the
exterior; and/or (ii) development activity involving a Residential
Hotel/Single Room Occupancy Hotel (SRO), vacant Dwelling Unit, or a Dwelling
Unit housing Lower Income Households in the City Center Project Area and the
Central Industrial Project Area, including any interior remodeling, interior
rehabilitation or interior repair work that may result in the loss of a
dwelling unit.



 



   "Redevelopment Plan Project Administrative Review" shall mean the
issuance of a ministerial approval by the Director for a Redevelopment Plan
Project that complies with the applicable Redevelopment Regulations, and does
not require the imposition of conditions or the making of findings.



 



   "Redevelopment Plan Project Adjustment" shall mean the same as a "minor
variation" or "variation" as these terms are used in each Redevelopment Plan
and is a decision by the Director that a Redevelopment Plan Project
substantially complies with the relevant Redevelopment Regulations except for
a minor deviation therefrom, either as submitted or with conditions imposed
to achieve substantial compliance with the applicable Redevelopment
Regulations.



 



   "Redevelopment Plan Project Compliance" shall mean a decision by the
Director that a Redevelopment Plan Project complies with the applicable
Redevelopment Regulations, either as submitted or with conditions imposed to
achieve compliance with the Redevelopment Regulations.



 



   "Redevelopment Project Area" or "Redevelopment Plan Area" or "Community
Redevelopment Plan Area" shall here and after be referred to as
"Redevelopment Project Area" and shall mean the area included within the
specific geographic boundaries identified as a project area in a
Redevelopment Plan.



 



   "Redevelopment Regulations" shall mean all the land use provisions of
the Redevelopment Plans and design for development guidelines adopted
pursuant to such Redevelopment Plans that govern land use or development that
were transferred to the City pursuant to California Health and Safety Code
Section 34173(i).



 



   "Residential Hotel/SRO" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in the
Development Guidelines and Controls for Residential Hotels in the City Center
and Central Industrial Redevelopment Project Areas, adopted by the former CRA
on June 15, 2006, and/or the Residential Hotel Ordinance (Ordinance No.
179,868) of the City of Los Angeles.  All projects involving a Residential
Hotel/SRO shall be considered a Redevelopment Plan Project and subject to all
provisions required unless otherwise stated.



 



   "Unexpired" shall mean that the applicable Redevelopment Regulations
are still in effect on the date of approval of a Redevelopment Plan Project
or Redevelopment Plan Amendment.



 



   D.   Administration of Redevelopment Plan Projects.  Applications
for approval of Redevelopment Plan Projects, including applications for
Redevelopment Plan Project Administrative Review, Project Compliance, and
Modification of Entitlement for a Redevelopment Plan Project shall be filed
and processed as follows:



 



   1.   Applications.



 



   (a)   General Requirements.



 



   (1)   Applications filed under this Article must include all the
information required by the Department of City Planning. All applications
shall be made on forms prepared by the Department of City Planning.



 



   (2)   Applications shall include all fees required by Article 9 of
Chapter 1 of the LAMC.



 



   (b)   Application Completeness.



 



   (1)   An application is not complete until all required items are
submitted and all required application fees are paid.



 



   (2)   The City will not process incomplete applications.
Applications will be reviewed for completeness in accordance with the Permit
Streamlining Act (California Government Code Title 7, Division 1, Chapter
4.5, as may be amended from time to time).



 



   (c)   Multiple Entitlement Requests.  In order to facilitate the
development process, applications for multiple entitlements for the same
project shall be submitted and processed concurrently as provided in Section
12.36.



 



   (d)   Withdrawal of Application.



 



   (1)   At any time before the initial decision maker or appellate
body on appeal makes a final decision on an application, the applicant may
withdraw the application.



 



   (2)   The withdrawal of the application must be in writing and does
not require the decision maker to concur.  The withdrawal of the application
shall be permanent and any associated authorizations shall be void.



 



   2.   Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit the Director or
the Director's designee from promulgating administrative guidelines to
interpret and implement the Redevelopment Regulations.



 



   3.   Notice and Hearing.  Notice shall be given and public hearings
shall be held as required by the LAMC.



 



   4.   Review Procedures for Redevelopment Plan Project Administrative
Review.



 



   (a)   Eligibility.  Any project involving a Residential Hotel/SRO,
vacant Dwelling Unit, or a Dwelling Unit housing Lower Income Households in
the City Center Project Area and the Central Industrial Project Area, or any
project involving construction that consists of interior remodeling, interior
rehabilitation or interior repair work that results in the loss of Dwelling
Units shall not be eligible for an administrative review.  Projects that do
not qualify for a Redevelopment Plan Project Administrative Review may apply
for a Redevelopment Plan Project Compliance or a Redevelopment Plan Project
Adjustment.



 



   (b)   Initiation.  A Project Administrative Review is initiated by
filing an application with the Department of City Planning or by following
the LAMC's procedures to obtain a building permit.



 



   (c)   Notice of Public Hearing.  There is no public hearing.



 



   (d)   Clearance.  Clearance shall be issued pursuant to the
applicable ordinance or building permit requirement.



 



   (e)   Criteria for Compliance Review.  The Department shall review
the application for compliance with the relevant standards of this Code and
the appropriate Redevelopment Plan, including the zone standards, established
development standards, and any supplemental use regulations.



 



   (f)   Scope of Action.  Once a project's Administrative Review is
complete, any subsequent development activity (including but not limited to
the erection, enlargement or maintenance of buildings, development or
construction work, and issuance of a grading, building or change of use
permit) shall comply with the plans approved by the Department of City
Planning in the Administrative Review for the project



 



   (g)   Appeals.  There is no appeal.



 



   (h)   Modification of Action.  Any change to the scope of the
application requires review by the Department of City Planning as provided in
this subdivision.



 



   5.   Review Procedures for Redevelopment Plan Project Compliance.



 



   (a)   Initiation.  A property owner files an application for
Project Compliance Review with the Department of City Planning.



 



   (b)   Notice of Public Hearing.  The Director shall provide notice
as required by the LAMC.



 



   (c)   Decision.



 



   (1)   Decision Maker.  The Director is the initial decision maker
and may approve, conditionally approve, or deny the Project Compliance.



 



   (2)   Decision.



 



   (i)   The Director shall render the initial decision within 75 days
of the date the application is deemed complete or, when an EIR or other CEQA
document is required, the date the EIR or other CEQA document is certified or
adopted.



 



   (ii)   If the Director fails to make a timely decision, the
applicant may file a request for transfer of jurisdiction to the Area
Planning Commission in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section
11.5.7 C.5. of this Code.



 



   (3)   Transmittal.  The Director shall transmit a copy of the
decision by email, electronic transmission, or mail to the applicant, the
Department of Building and Safety, the Councilmember(s) having jurisdiction
over the Redevelopment Project Area in which the property is located, the
Department of Transportation (when appropriate), owners of all properties
abutting, across the street or alley from, or having a common corner with the
subject property; and interested parties who have filed written requests for
notice with the City Planning Department.



 



   (d)   Standards for Review and Required Findings. The Director shall
grant a Project Compliance upon written findings that the project:



 



   (1)   Substantially complies with the relevant Redevelopment
Regulations, findings, standards and provisions of the Redevelopment Plan; and



 



   (2)   Is subject to all conditions required by the relevant
Redevelopment Regulations; and



 



   (3)   Complies with CEQA; and



 



   (4)   Any other findings that are required in the relevant
Redevelopment Plan.



 



   (e)   Scope of Decision / Utilization of Approvals.  See Section
12.25 of Chapter 1 of the LAMC.



 



   (f)   Limitations.  The granting of a Project Compliance shall not
imply compliance with any other applicable provisions of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code.  Any corrections and/or modifications to project plans made
subsequent to a Project Compliance that are deemed necessary by the
Department of Building and Safety for Building Code compliance, and which
involve a change in floor area, parking, building height, yards or setbacks,
building separation or lot coverage, shall require a referral of the revised
plans back to the Department of City Planning (and the Department of
Transportation in cases where there are corrections and/or modifications that
may affect the calculation of vehicle trips generated, project floor area or
parking) for additional review and sign-off prior to the issuance of any
permit in connection with those plans.



 



   (g)   Appeals.



 



   (1)   Decision Maker.  The Area Planning Commission is the
appellate decision maker.



 



   (2)   Filing. An applicant or any other person aggrieved by the
Director's decision may file an appeal.



 



   (3)   Appellate Decision.



 



   (i)   Before acting on any appeal, the Area Planning Commission
shall set the matter for hearing.  The following notice is required for the
public hearing on an appeal.



 



 


Type of Notice

 

When

 

Where / To Whom / Additional Requirements




Mail

 

21 days

 

•   The applicant;



•   Owners and occupants of all properties abutting, across the street
or alley from, or having a common corner with the subject property;



•   The Councilmember(s) having jurisdiction over the Redevelopment Plan
area in which the property is located;



•   The Department of Neighborhood Empowerment; and



•   Interested parties who have requested notice in writing.




 



   (ii)   The Area Planning Commission shall act within 75 days after
the expiration of the appeal period.



 



   (iii)   The decision to approve or deny an appeal must contain the
same findings required by the original decision maker, supported by
substantial evidence.



 



   (4)   Filing of Appeals.



 



   (i)   Appeals shall be in writing and filed on forms maintained by
the Department.



 



   (ii)   An appeal shall specifically state the points at issue and
the reasons why the decision should not be upheld.



 



   (iii)   An appeal not properly or timely filed shall not be accepted.



 



   (5)   Time Limits for Appeal.  Appeals must be filed within 15 days
after the date on the letter of determination to the applicant.



 



   (6)   Appeal Procedures.



 



   (i)   An appeal stays proceedings in the matter until the appellate
body makes a decision.



 



   (ii)   After an appeal is filed, the initial decision maker
transmits the appeal and the file to the appellate body, together with any
report, if one was prepared by staff, responding to the points raised made in
the appeal.



 



   (iii)   When the appellate body receives the appeal, the initial
decision maker loses jurisdiction.



 



   (iv)   Upon the date set for the hearing, the appellate body shall
either hear the appeal, or continue the matter by mutual agreement with the
project applicant to another date if there is cause to do so.  No notice of
continuance need be given if the continuance is announced at a public meeting
at the time for which the hearing was originally set.



 



   (v)   The appellate body shall conduct a public hearing.  After the
public hearing, the appellate body shall render a decision.



 



   (vi)   The appellate body may extend the time period for deciding an
appeal to allow the consideration of changes to the project requested by the
applicant.  If the appellate body finds that the changes are substantial,
including any additional CEQA analysis, the hearing may be continued by
mutual agreement with the project applicant.  The appellate body shall
provide notice of the continued hearing before such hearing is held.  The
time period required for additional notice is at least the time required for
posted notice on the original application.



 



   (vii)   The appellate body shall hear the matter de novo.  It may
take additional evidence, and shall base its decision on the record before
it.  In making its decision, the appellate body shall make the same findings
as required by the initial decision maker, supported by substantial evidence.



 



   (7)   Modification of Entitlement.  A Project Compliance may be
modified pursuant to Subdivision 6. below.



 



   6.   Modification of Entitlement for a Redevelopment Plan Project.



 



   (a)   Applicability.



 



   (1)   Original Action.  This subdivision applies to the
modification of a previously approved entitlement (referred to in this
subdivision as the "original action") that substantially conforms to the
original approval.



 



   (2)   Modification.



 



   (i)   For purposes of this subdivision, a "modification" means any
changes in the proposed physical development, planned operation, or
conditions of approval.



 



   (ii)   In no event can any modification or series of modifications
allow a use, single deviation, or series of deviations (including but not
limited to "minor variations" and "variations" as those terms are used in the
Redevelopment Plans) to exceed the maximum deviation allowed by the relevant
Redevelopment Plan or LAMC.



 



   (3)   Maximum Deviation.



 



   (i)   Use, single deviation, or series of deviations from the LAMC
or Redevelopment Plan which was not approved as part of the original action;
or



 



   (ii)   Any modification that would result in an increase or
reduction of the physical development, planned operation, or conditions of
approval on the original action by more than 20%.



 



   (4)   New Application.  Any deviation that does not substantially
conform to the original action or exceeds the maximum deviation prescribed in
Subparagraph (3) (Maximum Deviation) above requires a new project application.



 



   (b)   Initiation.



 



   (1)   A Modification of Entitlement is initiated by filing an
application with the Department of City Planning.



 



   (2)   The application must include development plans showing the
requested modifications.



 



   (3)   A Modification of Entitlement shall be filed and approved
before the original action expires.



 



   (c)   Notice of Public Hearing.  Notice of the public hearing on an
initial decision and appeal is provided in the same manner as the original
action or appeal.



 



   (d)   Decision.



 



   (1)   Decision Maker.



 



   (i)   The decision maker on a Modification of Entitlement is the
initial decision maker on the original action.  In the event that the
initial decision maker was the CRA, the Director of Planning shall be the
decision maker.



 



   (ii)   If the original action was subject to multiple approvals, the
initial decision maker is the initial decision maker assigned pursuant to
Section 12.36 (Multiple Approvals).



 



   (iii)   If the original action was subject to an appeal, the
decision maker on the Modification of Entitlement is the appellate body on
the original action.



 



   (2)   Public Hearing.  The initial decision maker may conduct a
public hearing after providing the notice required Section 11.5.14 D.6.(c)
(Notice of Public Hearing) above.  A hearing need not be held if the initial
decision maker makes a written finding that the requested Modification of
Entitlement:



 



   (i)   will not have a significant effect on adjoining properties or
on the immediate neighborhood; or



 



   (ii)   is not likely to evoke public controversy.



 



   (3)   Decision.  The initial decision maker shall approve,
conditionally approve, or deny the request within 75 days after the
application is deemed complete.



 



   (4)   Conditions.  The initial decision maker may impose conditions
on the modification as allowed by the regulations governing the original
action.



 



   (5)   Transmittal.  The initial decision maker shall transmit a
copy of the decision by mail to the applicant, all owners and occupants of
properties abutting, across the street or alley from, or having a common
corner with the subject property, and persons who have filed a written
request for notice with the Department of City Planning.



 



   (e)   Standard of Review and Required Findings.



 



   (1)   A Modification of Entitlement shall not be granted unless the
decision maker finds that the modification complies with all of the findings
that apply to the original action.



 



   (2)   If the application for Modification of Entitlement is for only
a portion of a development project, the decision maker's review and decision
shall be limited to only that portion of the project.  However, the decision
maker may consider the entire project to the extent that the approved project
and the portion for which the Modification of Entitlement is requested are
indistinct.



 



   (f)   Scope of Decision / Utilization of Approvals.  See Section
12.25 of Chapter 1 of the LAMC.



 



   (g)   Appeals.  The initial decision on a Modification of
Entitlement is appealable in the same manner as the original action.



 



   7.   Review Procedures for Redevelopment Plan Project Adjustment.



 



   (a)   Initiation.  A property owner files an application for
Project Adjustment with the Department of City Planning.



 



   (b)   Notice of Public Hearing.  The Director shall provide any
notice required by the LAMC.



 



   (c)   Decision.



 



   (1)   Decision Maker.  The Director is the initial decision maker,
and may approve, conditionally approve, or deny the Project Adjustment.



 



   (2)   Time Limit.



 



   (i)   The Director shall render the initial decision within 75 days
of the date the application is deemed complete.



 



   (ii)   If the Director fails to make a timely decision, the
applicant may file a request for transfer of jurisdiction to the Area
Planning Commission pursuant to Section 11.5.7 C.5. of this Code.



 



   (3)   Transmittal.  The Director shall transmit a copy of the
decision by email, electronic transmission, or mail to the applicant, the
Department of Building and Safety, the Councilmember(s) having jurisdiction
over the Redevelopment Plan Area in which the property is located, the
Department of Transportation (when appropriate), owners of all properties
abutting, across the street or alley from, or having a common corner with the
subject property; and interested parties who have filed written requests to
receive notice with the City Planning Department.



 



   (d)   Standards for Review and Required Findings.  The Director
shall approve, or approve with conditions, a Project Adjustment if the
Director finds in writing that:



 



   (1)   Substantially complies with the applicable Redevelopment
Regulations; and



 



   (2)   Complies with CEQA; and



 



   (3)   All findings for variations and minor variations, as required
by the applicable Redevelopment Plan, are met.



 



   (e)   Scope of Decision / Utilization of Approvals.  See Section
12.25 of Chapter 1 of the LAMC.



 



   (f)   Appeals.



 



   (1)   Decision Maker.  The Area Planning Commission is the
appellate decision maker.



 



   (2)   Filing.  An applicant or any other person aggrieved by the
Director's decision may file an appeal.



 



   (3)   Appellate Decision.



 



   (i)   Before acting on an appeal, the Area Planning Commission shall
set the matter for hearing.  The following notice is required for the public
hearing on an appeal.



 



 


Type of Notice

 

When

 

Where / To Whom / Additional Requirements




Mail

 

21 days

 

•   The applicant;



•   Owners and occupants of all properties abutting, across the street
or alley from, or having a common corner with the subject property;



•   The Councilmember(s) having jurisdiction over the Redevelopment
Project area in which the property is located;



•   The Department of Neighborhood Empowerment; and



•   Interested parties who have requested notice in writing.




 



   (ii)   The Area Planning Commission shall act within 75 days after
the expiration of the appeal period.



 



   (iii)   The decision to approve or deny an appeal must contain the
same findings required by the original decision maker, supported by
substantial evidence.



 



   (4)   Filing of Appeals.



 



   (i)   Appeals shall be in writing and filed on forms maintained by
the Department.



 



   (ii)   An appeal shall specifically state the points at issue and
the reasons why the decision should not be upheld.



 



   (iii)   An appeal not properly or timely filed shall not be accepted.



 



   (5)   Time Limits for Appeal.  Appeals must be filed within 15 days
after the date on the letter of determination to the applicant.



 



   (6)   Appeal Procedures.



 



   (i)   An appeal stays proceedings in the matter until the appellate
body makes a decision.



 



   (ii)   After an appeal is filed, the initial decision maker
transmits the appeal and the file to the appellate body, together with any
report, if one was prepared by staff, responding to the points raised made in
the appeal.



 



   (iii)   When the appellate body receives the appeal, the initial
decision maker loses jurisdiction.



 



   (iv)   Upon the date set for the hearing, the appellate body shall
either hear the appeal, or continue the matter by mutual agreement with the
project applicant to another date if there is cause to do so.  No notice of
continuance need be given if the continuance is announced at a public meeting
at the time for which the hearing was originally set.



 



   (v)   The appellate body shall conduct a public hearing.  After the
public hearing, the appellate body shall render a decision.



 



   (vi)   The appellate body may extend the time period for deciding an
appeal to allow the consideration of changes to the project requested by the
applicant.  If the appellate body finds that the changes are substantial,
including any additional CEQA analysis, the hearing may be continued by
mutual agreement with the project applicant.  The appellate body shall
provide notice of the continued hearing before such hearing is held.  The
time period required for additional notice is at least the time required for
posted notice on the original application.



 



   (vii)   The appellate body shall hear the matter de novo.  It may
take additional evidence, and shall base its decision on the record before
it.  In making its decision, the appellate body shall make the same findings
as required by the initial decision maker, supported by substantial evidence.



 



   (g)   The decision of the appellate body is final.



 



   (h)   Modification of Entitlement. No modification is available.



 



   8.   Initiation of Redevelopment Plan Amendment(s).  The City
Council, the City Planning Commission or the Director of Planning may
initiate consideration of an amendment to any a Redevelopment Plan, subject
to the requirements and limitations of the Charter and state law.  The fee
for a Redevelopment Plan Amendment shall be as set forth in Section 19.01 G.
of this Code.



 



   9.   Multiple Approvals.  When an application is filed pursuant to
this Section for a Redevelopment Plan Project requiring multiple approvals,
the process set forth in Section 12.36 shall apply.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 2
SPECIFIC PLANNING – ZONING
COMPREHENSIVE ZONING PLAN



 




(Title Amended by Ord. No. 138,800, Eff. 6/13/69, Oper. 6/23/69.)




 



 



Section



12.00   Title.



12.01   Continuation of Existing Regulations.



12.02   Purpose.



12.03   Definitions.



12.04   Zones - Districts - Symbols.



12.04.01   Violations of Specific Plans.



12.04.05   “OS” Open Space Zone.



12.04.09   “PF” Public Facilities Zone.



12.05   “A1” Agriculture Zone.



12.06   “A2” Agricultural Zone.



12.07   “RA” Suburban Zone.



12.07.01   “RE” Residential Estate Zone.



12.07.1   “RS” Suburban Zone.



12.08   “R1” One-family Zone.



12.08.1   RU Residential Urban Zone.



12.08.3   RZ Residential Zero Side Yard Zone.



12.08.5   “RW1” Residential Waterways Zone.



12.09   “R2” Two-Family Zone.



12.09.1   “RD” Restricted Density Multiple Dwelling Zone.



12.09.3   “RMP” Mobilehome Park Zone.



12.09.5   “RW2” Residential Waterways Zone.



12.10   “R3” Multiple Dwelling Zone.



12.10.5   RAS3 Residential/Accessory Services Zone Purpose Statement.



12.11   “R4” Multiple Dwelling Zone.



12.11.5   RAS4 Residential/Accessory Services Zone Purpose Statement.



12.12   “R5” Multiple Dwelling Zone.



12.12.1   “P” Automobile Parking Zone.



12.12.1.5   “PB” Parking Building Zone.



12.12.2   “CR” Limited Commercial Zone.



12.13   “C1” Limited Commercial Zone.



12.13.5   “C1.5” Limited Commercial Zone



12.14   “C2” Commercial Zone.



12.16   “C4”  Commercial Zone.



12.16.1   “CW” Central City West Specific Plan Zone.



12.16.2   ADP Alameda District Specific Plan Zone.



12.16.3   LASED Los Angeles Sports and Entertainment District Specific
Plan Zone.



12.16.4   CEC Convention and Event Center Specific Plan Zone.



12.16.5   USC-1A University of Southern California University Park Campus
Specific Plan Subarea 1A Zone.



12.16.6   USC-1B University of Southern California University Park Campus
Specific Plan Subarea 1B Zone.



12.16.7   USC-2 University of Southern California University Park Campus
Specific Plan Subarea 2 Zone.



12.16.8   USC-3 University of Southern California University Park Campus
Specific Plan Subarea 3 Zone.



12.16.9   PVSP Ponte Vista at San Pedro Specific Plan Zone.



12.17   “C5” Commercial Zone.



12.17.1   “CM” Commercial Manufacturing Zone.



12.17.2   “CM(GM)”  Commercial Manufacturing (Glencoe/Maxella)
Specific Plan Zone.



12.17.5   “MR1” Restricted Industrial Zone.



12.17.5.5   “CCS” Century City South Specific Plan Studio Zone.



12.17.6   “M1” Limited Industrial Zone.



12.18   “MR2” Restricted Light Industrial Zone.



12.18.1   “WC” Warner Center Specific Plan Zone.



12.19   “M2” Light Industrial Zone.



12.19.1   LAX Los Angeles International Airport Zone.



12.20   “M3” Heavy Industrial Zone.



12.20.1   SL Ocean – Submerged Land Zone.



12.20.2   Coastal Development Permits (Prior to Certification of the Local
Coastal Program.)



12.20.2.1   Coastal Development Permit Procedures After Certification of
the Local Coastal Program.



12.20.3   “HP” Historic Preservation Overlay Zone.



12.21   General Provisions.



12.21.1   Height of Building or Structures.



12.21.2   Height of Buildings or Structures in Century City.



12.21.3   Height of Buildings or Structures in Community Redevelopment
Plan Areas.



12.21.4   Height of Buildings or Structures in Enterprise Zones.



12.21.5   Height of Buildings or Structures in Centers Study Areas.



12.21.6   Height of Buildings or Structures in All R1V, R1F, and R1R
One-Family Zone Variations.



12.22   Exceptions.



12.22.1   City of Los Angeles Safer Filming Ordinance.



12.23   Nonconforming Building and Uses.



12.24   Conditional Use Permits and Other Similar Quasi-Judicial Approvals.



12.24.1   Land Use Determination by City Planning Commission.



12.25   Time Limitations.



12.26   Department of Building and Safety.



12.27   Variances.



12.27.1   Administrative Nuisance Abatement Proceedings.



12.28   Adjustments and Slight Modifications.



12.29   Violation of Conditions – Penalty.



12.30   Boundaries of Zones.



12.31   Interpretation – Purpose – Conflict.



12.32   Land Use Legislative Actions.



12.33   Park Fees and Land Dedication.



12.34   Application of Provisions.



12.35   Zoning of Annexed or Unzoned Areas.



12.36   Projects Requiring Multiple Approvals.  (Charter § 564).



12.37   Highway and Collector Street Dedication and Improvement.



12.38   Dedication of Streets by Long Term Leases.



12.40   Landscape - General Requirements.



12.41   Landscape - Water Management.



12.42   Landscape.



12.43   Source Reduction of Waste.



12.50   Airport Approach Zoning Regulations.



12.70   Adult Entertainment Zoning.



12.80   Homeless Shelters – Emergencies – City Owned and Leased
Property.



12.81   Homeless Shelters – Emergencies – Charitable Organizations.



12.82   Homeless Shelters – Emergencies – El Niño 2016.



 



 



SEC. 12.00.  TITLE.



 



   This article shall be known as the “Comprehensive Zoning Plan of the
City of Los Angeles.”



 



   It is well settled that a municipality may divide land into districts
and prescribe regulations governing the uses permitted therein, and that
zoning ordinances when reasonable in object and not arbitrary in operation
constitute a justifiable exercise of police power, and as intendment is in
favor of the validity of such ordinances the court will not substitute its
judgment for that of the zoning action.



   Lockard v. The City of Los Angeles, 33 Cal. 2d 453.



   Clemens v. The City of Los Angeles, 36 Cal.2d 95.



   Wheeler v. Gregg, 90 Cal. App. 2d 348.



   Burke v. City of Los Angeles, 68 Cal. App.2d 189.



   Ex Parte Quong Wo, 161 Cal 222.



   Miller v. Board of Public Works, 95 Cal. 485.



   Zahn v. Board of Public Works, 195 Cal. 497.



   People v. Norton, 108 Cal. App. Supp. 767.



   Otis v. City of Los Angeles. 52 Cal. App. 2d 605.



   Hadacheck v. Alexander. 169 Cal. 616.



   Brown v. City of Los Angeles. 183 Cal. 783, 789.



   Ex Parte Hadacheck.165 Cal. 416.



   Marblehead Land Co. v. City of Los Angeles, 47 Fed. 2d 528.



   Kort v. City of Los Angeles, 52 Cal. App. 2d 804.



   Acker v. Baldwin, 18 Cal 2d 341.



   In re Ruppe, 80 Cal. App. 629.



   Village of Euclid v. Amber Realty Co., 272 U.S. 365, 71 L. Ed. 303.



   Wilkins v. City of San Bernardino, 29 Cal 2d 332.



 



   The right to use private property may be restricted by an ordinance
which follows a reasonable plan even though the use is neither a nuisance per
se, nor a menace to health, safety or morals in the district from which it is
excluded. A retroactive ordinance which causes substantial injury to a
business which is not a nuisance would be unreasonable and unjustifiable.



   People v. Nixon, CR A 2201.



 



   Comprehensive Zoning is a legitimate exercise of the police power and
city ordinances prohibiting the production of oil in designated zones are
valid if reasonable and not arbitrary.



   Beverly Oil Company v. City of Los Angeles, 40 Cal. 2nd 552.



 



   Any zoning regulation is a valid exercise of the police power which is
necessary to subserve the ends for which the police power exists, namely, the
promotion of the public health, safety, morals, and general welfare. The
police power as evidence in zoning ordinances has a much wider scope than the
mere oppression of offensive users of property. Such regulations do not
constitute a taking of property for which compensations must be made.



   Miller v. Board of Public Works. 195 Cal. 482.



 



   It is not a ground of invalidity of a zoning ordinance that a business
is lawful, innocent, inoffensive and dignified, for if restrictions on
business could be invalidated on that ground there could be no such thing as
comprehensive city planning.



   Kort v. City of Los Angeles, 52 Cal. App. 2nd, 804, 809.



 



   A master plan or some over-all plan contemplated by a city in the
development and building up of a subdivision need not be approved and adopted
before authority vests in relation to conditions imposed by the city on a
subdivider, where a Charter contemplates that portion of the plan may be
adopted.



   Ayers v. City of Los Angeles, 34 Cal. 2d 31.



 



 



SEC. 12.01.  CONTINUATION OF EXISTING REGULATIONS.



 



   The provisions of this article, in so far as they are substantially the
same as existing ordinances relating to the same subject matter, shall be
construed as restatements and continuations and not as new enactments.



 



 



SEC. 12.02.  PURPOSE.



 



   The purpose of this article is to consolidate and coordinate all
existing zoning regulations and provisions into one comprehensive zoning plan
in order to designate, regulate and restrict the location and use of
buildings, structures and land, for agriculture, residence, commerce, trade,
industry or other purposes; to regulate and limit the height, number of
stories, and size of buildings and other structures hereafter erected or
altered to regulate and determine the size of yards and other open spaces and
to regulate and limit the density of population; and for said purposes to
divide the City into zones of such number, shape and area as may be deemed
best suited to carry out these regulations and provide for their enforcement.
Further, such regulations are deemed necessary in order to encourage the most
appropriate use of land; to conserve and stabilize the value of property; to
provide adequate open spaces for light and air, and to prevent and fight
fires; to prevent undue concentration of population; to lessen congestion on
streets; to facilitate adequate provisions for community utilities and
facilities such as transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks and other
public requirements; and to promote health, safety, and the general welfare
all in accordance with the comprehensive plan.



 



   The zoning regulations are not contracts by the City and may therefore
be modified by the latter. Property is always held subject to the valid
exercise of the police power. The theory of vested rights relates only to
such rights as an owner of property may possess not to have his property
rezoned after he has started construction thereon or was making a use thereof
permitted by law, when such obstruction or use does not constitute a nuisance
and the adoption of the zoning ordinance does not give a property owner any
vested rights.



   Wheeler v. Gregg, 90 Cal. App. 2d 348 at 365.



 



   No person has a vested right in the exercise of the police power. An
exercise of the same may not be limited by a prior contract or restricted
covenants.



   Wheeler v. Gregg, 90 Ca. App. 2d 348, 367.



   Acker  v. Baldwin, 18 Cal. 2d 341.



 



   When a building is partly in one zone and partly in another, a person
who conducts a prohibited business in the portion of such building where such
business is prohibited, held, guilty of violation of the zoning ordinance,
even though conduct of such business in other part of building would have
been lawful.



   People v. Nixon CR A 2201.



 



   The use of a lot restricted to non-business uses as place where
automobiles stood on concrete slab while being serviced from pump located on
lot zoned for business, held to be a use of restricted lot for business
purposes in violation of zoning ordinance.



   People v. Myers, CR A550.



 



   An ordinance which forbids the erection and maintenance of a dwelling
house except where such dwelling has adequate and permanent access to a
permanent or public street is valid.



   Mitchell v. Morris, 94 Cal. App. 2d 446.



 



   It is not an unlawful exercise of police power to amend a zoning
ordinance and extend the limits of an area in which conduct of a certain
business is prohibited when no construction or building has been started.



   Dobbins v. City of Los Angeles. 139 Cal. 179.



   Marblehead Land Co. v. City of Los Angeles, 47 F.2d 528.



 



   A zoning ordinance is not void or discriminatory because there is a
territory outside the district in which a business subject to the police
power is permitted, exactly similar to that inside the district where it is
prohibited.



   Brown v. City of Los Angeles, 183 Cal. 783.



 



   Where three separately numbered lots are enclosed with a fence and
occupied and used as a single parcel, house being on one lot and horses were
kept on other lot, held, the entire premises were used for a single family
residence with customary outbuildings within meaning of county ordinance.



   People v. Smith, CK A 1696.



 



   Where zone boundary line runs through a building, held, fact that
defendant was uncertain as to where such line ran is not a defense to charge
of conducting business in a forbidden zone.



   People v. Nixon, CR A 2201.



 



   Zoning ordinances, when reasonable in object and not arbitrary in
operation, constitute a justifiable exercise of the police power, and such
power extends to the regulation of uses of property which do not actually
amount to nuisances.



   Jones v. City Of Los Angeles, 211 Cal. 304



 



   Where a vendor of property conceals the fact that a violation of zoning
regulations exists thereon, the purchaser is not bound by constructive notice
of the applicable zoning ordinance, and said vendor’s failure to disclose
such violation constitutes actual fraud.



   Barder v. McClung, 93 Cal. App. 2d 692.



 



   Zoning Ordinances which have been held invalid fall roughly into four
categories: 1. Where the zoning ordinance attempts to exclude and prohibit
existing and established uses or businesses that are not nuisances. 2. Where
restrictions create a monopoly. 3. Where the use of adjacent property renders
the land entirely unsuited to or unusable for the only purpose permitted by
the ordinance. 4. Where a small parcel is restricted and given less rights
than surrounding property, as where a lot in the center of a business
district is limited to use for residential purposes, thereby creating an
“island” in the middle of a larger area devoted to other uses.



   Wilkins v. City of San Bernardino, 29 Cal. 2d 332,340.



 



   The terms “buildable area” and “building site”, Article 1,
Section 3(11) of the City Charter of Los Angeles are defined to include a
“Designated Building Site” as that term is defined in and provided for by
Section 2 of uncodified Ordinance 159,802, Eff. 6/9/85. SEC.



 



 



SEC. 12.03.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   For the purpose of Article 2 to 6 inclusive of this chapter, certain
terms and words are herewith defined as follows:



 



   ABANDONED AUTOMOBILE.  Any motor vehicle, which when operated upon a
highway is required to be registered by the California Vehicle Code, whose
registration has been expired for a period of six months or more.
Notwithstanding the foregoing definition, a motor vehicle stored within a
permitted building or structure shall not be considered to be an abandoned
automobile.  (Added by Ord. No. 131,925, Eff. 4/11/66.)



 



   ACCESSORY BUILDING.  A detached subordinate building, the use of which
is customarily incidental to that of the main building or to the main use of
the land and which is located in the same or a less restrictive zone and on
the same lot with the main building or use. The relationship between the more
restrictive and the less restrictive zones shall be determined by the
sequence of zones set forth in Sec. 12.23 B.1.(c).  (Amended by Ord. No.
106,571, Eff. 1/1/56.)



 



   ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT (ADU).  An attached or detached residential
dwelling unit that provides complete independent living facilities for one or
more persons and is located on a lot with a proposed or existing primary
residence.  It shall include permanent provisions for living, sleeping,
eating, cooking, and sanitation on the same lot as the single-family or
multifamily dwelling is or will be situated.  ADUs include efficiency units
as defined in Section 17958.1 of the Health and Safety Code, manufactured
homes as defined in Section 18007 of the Health and Safety Code, and Movable
Tiny Houses. (Added by Ord. No. 186,481, Eff. 12/19/19.)



 



   ACCESSORY LIVING QUARTERS.  An accessory building used solely as the
temporary dwelling of guests of the occupants of the premises; such dwelling
having no kitchen facilities and not rented or otherwise used as a separate
dwelling unit.  (Added by Ord. No. 107,884, Eff. 9/23/56.)



 



   ACCESSORY USE.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,095, Eff. 5/7/12.)  A use,
which is customarily incidental to that of the main building or the main use
of the land and which is located in the same zone or a less restrictive zone
and on the same lot with a main building or main use.  The relationship
between the more restrictive zones and the less restrictive zones shall be
determined by the sequence of zones set forth in Section 12.23 B. of this
Code.



 



   The garaging, maintaining or storage of any commercial vehicle on
private property which exceeds a registered net weight of 5,600 pounds shall
not be considered an accessory use in the “R” Zones. The rental, storage,
or storage for rental purposes of a commercial vehicle which exceeds a
registered net weight of 5,600 pounds shall not be considered an accessory
use in any zone more restrictive than the MR-1 Zone, except as approved by
conditional use.



 



   An accessory use shall also include the keeping of domestic animals,
subject to other provisions of this article; and the keeping of wild animals,
under an appropriate permit issued by the Department of Animal Services as
provided for in Section 53.38 of the Code, but in no event including the
following wild animals: bear, civet, coyote, eagle, eland, elephant, elk,
giraffe, gnu, gorilla, hyena, hippopotamus, jaguar, leopard, lion, lynx,
moose, orangutan, venomous reptile, puma, rhinoceros, sea lion, tiger,
vulture, walrus, wart hog, wolf or yak.



 



   The sale of not more than one dog or cat litter from a domestic
household in a 12- month period shall be considered accessory to a
residential use.



 



   The noncommercial keeping of birds (not including fowl) without regard
to their number shall be an accessory use in the RA, RE, RS, R1, RU and RZ
Zones. However, if the Department of Animal Services determines that the
keeping of birds or the keeping of a particular number of birds at a
particular location constitutes a nuisance or a health or safety hazard, then
the keeping of birds under those circumstance shall not be an accessory use.



 



   For the purposes of this section, the occasional sale of birds which is
incidental to the keeping of birds as a hobby, does not constitute a
commercial use.



 



   Garage and/or yard sales shall be considered accessory to a residential
use, if the sale is only incidental to the individual’s residential
occupancy of the premises; and



 



   1.   The sales are confined to the sale of used items which were
originally received or purchased for use in the household; and



 



   2.   The sales are restricted to a maximum of five sales events per
calendar year as a means of disposing of used items originally received or
purchased for use in the household; and



 



   3.   The sales are limited to not more than two consecutive days per
event; and



 



   4.   The sales are limited to not more than ten days per calendar
year total; and



 



   5.   The sales are limited to the hours between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m.



 



   For purposes of this section, the term accessory use shall not apply to
any garage and/or yard sales where new goods or merchandise, or items that
were not intended to be used in the household are offered or displayed for
sale or exchange.  (“Department of Animal Regulation” renamed
“Department of Animal Services” by Ord. No. 174,735, Eff. 9/13/02.)



 



   ADDITION, GROUND FLOOR.  An expansion of the exterior perimeter of a
building measured at five feet or more above adjacent grade at any point. 
(Added by Ord. No. 169,775, Eff. 6/2/94.)



 



   ADJACENT GROUND ELEVATION.  Same as grade.  (Amended by Ord. No.
131,309, Eff. 4/24/66.)



 



   ADMINISTRATOR – See “Zoning Administrator”.



 



   AGRICULTURAL WASTE.  All plant materials generated from the growing
and harvesting of agricultural crops, vegetables and fruits.  (Added by Ord.
No. 170,054, 11/13/94.)



 



   AIRPORT OR AIRCRAFT LANDING FIELD.  Any runway landing area or other
facility designed, used, or intended to be used either publicly or privately
by any person for the landing and taking off of aircraft including all
necessary taxiways, aircraft storage and tiedown areas, hangars and other
necessary buildings and open spaces.



 



   ALZHEIMER'S/DEMENTIA CARE HOUSING.  Residential housing that is
licensed by the California Department of Social Services and provides 24-hour
care for people suffering from Alzheimer's disease or other disorders
resulting in dementia.  The residential units shall be guest rooms only. 
The housing may be a component of an Eldercare Facility.  (Added by Ord. No.
178,063, Eff. 12/30/06.)



 



   ANIMAL KEEPING ENCLOSURE.  Any structure or fence which establishes
the perimeter of an animal keeping and maintenance area. (Added by Ord. No.
157,144, Eff. 11/22/82.)



 



   ANIMAL KEEPING STRUCTURE.  Any structure, as defined by this Code,
which has a roof and may have one or more sides and is used in whole or in
part for the housing or shelter of animals. (Amended by Ord. No. 161,352,
Eff. 7/20/86.)



 



   APARTMENT.  Same as dwelling unit.  (Added by Ord. No. 107,884, Eff.
9/23/56.)



 



   APARTMENT HOTEL.  A residential building designed or used for both two
or more dwelling units and six or more guest rooms or suites of rooms.
(Amended by Ord. No. 107,884, Eff. 9/23/56.)



 



   APARTMENT HOUSE.  A residential building designed or used for three or
more dwelling units or a combination of three or more dwelling units and not
more than five guest rooms or suites of rooms.  (Amended by Ord. No.
107,884, Eff. 9/23/56.)



 



   APIARY.  (Added by Ord. No. 183,920, Eff. 12/6/15.)  The place where
bees are kept and maintained, usually in a collection of hives or colonies.



 



   AREA PLANNING COMMISSIONS.  (Added by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00,
Oper. 7/1/00; and Amended by Ord. No. 173,374, Eff. 8/3/00.)  Each Area
Planning Commission shall consist of five members.  Members shall be
appointed and removed in the same manner as members of  the City Planning
Commission, except that residency in the area served by the  Area Planning
Commission shall be a qualification for appointment.  Except as provided in
Paragraph (d), Area Planning Commissions are quasi-judicial agencies.



 



   Each Area Planning Commission, with respect to matters concerning
property  located in the area served by the Area Planning Commission, shall
have and exercise the power to:



 



   (a)   hear and determine appeals where it is alleged there is error
or abuse  of discretion in any order, requirement, decision, interpretation
or other determination  made by a Zoning Administrator;



   (b)   hear and make decisions on any matter normally under the
jurisdiction  of a Zoning Administrator when that matter has been
transferred to the jurisdiction  of the Area Planning Commission because the
Zoning Administrator has failed  to act within the time limits prescribed by
ordinance;



 



   (c)   hear and determine applications for, or appeals related to,
conditional use permits  and other similar quasi-judicial approvals, in
accordance with procedures  prescribed by ordinance;



 



   (d)   make recommendations with respect to zone changes or similar
matters  referred to it from the City Planning Commission pursuant to
Charter Section 562; and



 



   (e)   hear and determine other matters delegated to it by ordinance.



 



   Notwithstanding the above, the City Planning Commission shall make
decisions on any matter that would otherwise be heard by an Area Planning
Commission if the matter involves a project which crosses the boundaries of
the area served by more than one Area Planning Commission.



 



   ASSISTED LIVING CARE HOUSING.  Residential housing that is licensed by
the California Department of Social Services and provides assistance to
people 62 years of age or older who require assistance with two or more
non-medical activities of daily living as defined in the Department of Social
Services licensing requirements.  The residential units may consist either
of dwelling units or guest rooms.  Full time medical services shall not be
provided on the premises.  The housing may be a component of an Eldercare
Facility.  (Added by Ord. No. 178,063, Eff. 12/30/06.)



 



   ATTENDED BICYCLE PARKING SERVICE.  A service by which a bicycle is
left in the care of an attendant(s) with provision for identifying the
bicycle's owner.  Once stored, a bicycle left in the care of an attendant(s)
shall be accessible only to the attendant(s), with the storage location not
necessarily in the same location as the pick-up and drop-off point.  (Added
by Ord. No. 185,480, Eff. 5/9/18.)



 



   AUTOMOBILE DISMANTLING YARD.  Any property or place where the business
of an automobile dismantler, as defined by California Vehicle Code Section
220, is conducted. (Added by Ord. No. 152,770, Eff. 9/15/79.)



 



   AUTOMOBILE FOR HIRE.  An automobile for hire is a motor vehicle, other
than a commercial vehicle with registered net weight in excess of 5,600
pounds, which is let or rented or offered for rental, lease or hire to
another for consideration. (Added by Ord. No. 148,857, Eff. 10/31/76.)



 



   AUTOMOBILE AND TRAILER SALES AREA.  An open area other than a street,
used for the display, sale or rental of new or used automobiles or trailers,
and where no repair work is done except minor incidental repair of
automobiles or trailers to be displayed, sold or rented on the premises.



 



   AUTOMOTIVE FUELING AND SERVICE STATION.  A business which dispenses
automotive fuel to the public and may provide the following incidental
services:  tube and tire repairing, battery servicing, automotive
lubrication, mechanical adjustments, changing of spark plugs and other
similar maintenance activities.    (Added by Ord. No. 169,130, Eff.
12/16/93.)



 



   AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR.  A use involving the diagnosing of malfunctions,
repairing or maintaining of motor vehicles.  Included in this definition are
body shops, paint shops, tire stores, muffler shops, auto electric shops, van
conversions, lubrication centers, auto-sound shops, auto-alarm shops, auto
upholstery shops, wheel alignment shops and other similar automotive related
repair or installation businesses; automotive repair does not include
automotive fueling and service stations as defined in this section and
installers of automotive telecommunication devices and computers.  (Added by
Ord. No. 169,130, Eff. 12/16/93.)



 



   AUTOMOTIVE USE.  The primary sale of used automobiles.  In addition,
this phrase shall include automotive repair and automobile and trailer sales
area, as defined in this section.  (Added by Ord. No. 178,382, Eff. 3/24/07.)



 



   BACHELOR APARTMENT.  Same as Efficiency Dwelling Unit. (Amended by
Ord. No. 138,456, Eff. 5/30/69.)



 



   BASE FLOOR.  That story of a main building, at or above grade, which
is not considered a basement, and which has the greatest number of square
feet confined within the exterior walls, including the area of the attached
covered parking at the same story.  (Amended by Ord. No. 184,802, Eff.
3/17/17.)



 



   BASEMENT.  Any level below the First Story of a Building.  The
ceiling of a Basement shall not be more than four vertical feet higher than
the finished floor level of the First Story.  (Amended by Ord. No. 184,802,
Eff. 3/17/17.)



 



   BED AND BREAKFAST FACILITY.  A building or portion thereof which is
used as a temporary lodging place for fewer than thirty consecutive days and
which does not contain more than five guest rooms and one kitchen.  (Added
by Ord. No. 172,792, Eff. 10/4/99.)



 



   BEE.  (Added by Ord. No. 183,920, Eff. 12/6/15.)  Any stage of life
of the common domestic honey bee (Apis Mellifera).



 



   BEEKEEPING, BACKYARD.  (Added by Ord. No. 183,920, Eff. 12/6/15.) 
The keeping or maintenance of an apiary in a hive as an accessory use.



 



   BICYCLE CAGE.  A locked bicycle parking area that has been fenced off
to prohibit access by the general public.  Bicycle cages shall contain
bicycle racks that provide a means of securing the bicycle frame at two
points to a securely anchored rack.  (Added by Ord. No. 182,386, Eff.
3/13/13.)



 



   BICYCLE CORRAL.  Any on-street public parking space in which multiple
short-term bicycle parking racks have been installed.  (Added by Ord. No.
182,386, Eff. 3/13/13.)



 



   BICYCLE ROOM.  A locked bicycle parking area that has been walled off
to prohibit access by the general public.  Bicycle rooms shall contain
bicycle racks that provide a means of securing the bicycle frame at two
points to a securely anchored rack.  (Added by Ord. No. 182,386, Eff.
3/13/13.)



 



   BICYCLE SHARE DOCK.  A device designed to receive a bicycle for locked
storage as part of a system that directly rents bicycles on a short-term
basis.  (Added by Ord. No. 185,480, Eff. 5/9/18.)



 



   BICYCLE SHARE SERVICE PROVIDER.  An entity operating a system that
directly provides bicycles for rent on a short-term basis.  (Added by Ord.
No. 185,480, Eff. 5/9/18.)



 



   BICYCLE SHARE STATION.  A combination of multiple bicycle share docks,
automated payment equipment, and related equipment associated with bicycle
share.  (Added by Ord. No. 185,480, Eff. 5/9/18.)



 



   BLOODMOBILE.  A vehicle, or portable structure transported by a
vehicle, easily transportable in one or more sections, which is used to
provide blood collection services on a temporary basis in any one location. 
(Added by Ord. No. 166,045, Eff. 8/17/90.)



 



   BOARD.  (Repealed by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)



 



   BOARDING OR ROOMING HOUSE.  A dwelling containing a single dwelling
unit and not more than five guest rooms or suites of rooms, where lodging is
provided with or without meals, for compensation. (Amended by Ord. No.
107,884, Eff. 9/23/56.)



 



   BUILDABLE AREA.  (Amended by Ord. No. 171,662, Eff. 8/17/97.)  All
that portion of a lot located within the proper zone for the proposed main
building, excluding those portions of the lot which must be reserved for yard
spaces, building line setback space, or which may only be used for accessory
buildings or uses.  For the purpose of computing the height district
limitations on total floor area in buildings of any height, the buildable
area that would apply to a one-story building on the lot shall be used.



 



   Notwithstanding the above, in computing the height district limitations
on total floor area for any development of residential dwelling units, or of
both residential dwelling units and commercial uses, in the C2, C4, or C5
zones, buildable area shall have the same meaning as lot area.  The
additional square footage permitted by this calculation for residential use
shall not result in an increase in the number of dwelling units beyond that
which would have otherwise been permitted but may only be used to increase
the floor area or number of habitable rooms within individual dwelling units.



 



   This alternate definition of buildable area shall not apply within the
following specific plan areas: Central City West, Century City North, Century
City South, Coastal Bluffs, Devonshire/Topanga Corridor, Foothill Boulevard
Corridor, Granada Hills, Oxford Triangle, Pacific Palisades Commercial
Village/Neighborhoods, Playa Vista Area D, Porter Ranch Land
Use/Transportation, San Pedro, Valley Village, and Westwood Village.  This
alternative definition shall also not apply to any lot for which a “Q” or
“D” limitation setting forth a floor area limitation had been imposed
before July 1, 1997.  In the event of a conflict with any other adopted
specific plan, the most restrictive provision shall prevail.



 



   BUILDING.  Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls,
for the housing, shelter or enclosure of persons, animals, chattels or
property of any kind. (Amended by Ord. No. 107,884, Eff. 9/23/56.)



 



   BUNGALOW COURT.  A group of three or more single, duplex, or triplex
dwelling structures oriented around a shared outdoor space on a single
parcel.  (Added by Ord. No. 185,462, Eff. 4/18/18.)



 



   CARGO CONTAINER.  Any container (refrigerated or non-refrigerated)
that permits the temporary storage and protection of cargo, and which may be
transported by ship, rail or truck without intermediate loading and unloading
of the contents of the container.  (Added by Ord. No. 177,244, Eff. 2/18/06.)



 



   CARGO CONTAINER STORAGE YARD.  An open-air site or facility, the
primary use of which is the keeping of empty cargo containers, and equipment,
and may have as accessory uses the storage of container chassis and truck
cabs, repair facilities, warehouses and offices associated with the movement
or storage of cargo containers.  This definition does not include draying,
freighting or trucking yards or terminals.  (Added by Ord. No. 177,244, Eff.
2/18/06.)



 



   CEMETERY.  Land used or intended to be used for the burial of the dead
and dedicated for cemetery purposes, including columbariums, crematories,
mausoleums and mortuaries when operated in conjunction with and within the
boundary of such cemetery.



 



   CHILD CARE FACILITY.  A facility in which non-residential care is
provided for children, 16 years of age or under, when licensed as a day care
facility for children by the State of California or other agency designated
by the State, under the categories defined in Section 30019 of Title 22 of
the State of California Administrative Code. (Added by Ord. No. 145,474, Eff.
3/2/74.)



 



   CHIPPING/GRINDING FACILITY.  Any facility which temporarily stores
and/or processes source-separated green waste and/or wood waste by means of
chipping, grinding, mixing and/or screening to produce a material of varying
particle size.  The material produced by the above described processes may
be used as ground cover, biofuel, wood chips, animal bedding, worm food or
other similar uses.  This definition shall not include any chipping and/or
grinding of green waste and/or wood waste conducted for noncommercial,
nonprofit purpose.  (Added by Ord. No. 170,054, 11/13/94.)



 



   CITY PLANNING COMMISSION.  (Added by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00,
Oper. 7/1/00 and Amended by Ord. No. 173,374, Eff. 8/3/00.)  The Board of
Commissioners of the City Planning Department shall be known as the City
Planning Commission and shall consist of nine members.  It shall:



 



   (a)   give advice and make recommendations to the Mayor, Council, 
Director of Planning, municipal departments and agencies with respect to City
planning and related activities and legislation;



 



   (b)   make recommendations concerning amendment of the General Plan
and proposed zoning ordinances in accordance with Charter Sections 555 and
558;



 



   (c)   make reports and recommendations to the Council and to other
governmental officers or agencies as may be necessary to implement and secure
compliance with the General Plan;



 



   (d)   perform other functions prescribed by the Charter or ordinance;



 



   (e)   make decisions on any matter that would otherwise be heard by
an Area Planning Commission if the matter involves a project which crosses
the boundaries of the area served by more than one Area Planning Commission;
and



 



   (f)   adopt guidelines for the administration of the provisions of
this chapter if it  determines that guidelines are necessary and
appropriate.  Authority to adopt guidelines for the administration of the
provisions of this chapter may be delegated to others by adoption of a
resolution by Council.  Existing provisions of this chapter that delegate
authority for the adoption of guidelines to others shall continue to apply
with respect to those provisions.



 



   COMMERCIAL COACH.  A vehicle with or without motive power, designed
and equipped for human occupancy for industrial, professional or commercial
purposes. (Added by Ord. No. 161,716, Eff. 12/6/86.)



 



 




   COMMERCIAL CORNER DEVELOPMENT.  (Amended by Ord. No. 175,223, Eff.
6/30/03.)




 



   (1)   Any commercially used corner lot located in a C or M zone in
Height District Nos. 1, 1-L, 1-VL or 1-XL, the lot line of which adjoins, is
separated only by an alley adjacent to, or is located across the street from,
any portion of a lot zoned A or R, or improved with any residential use
(except in an M zone), or



 



   (2)   Any multi-family residentially used corner lot located in a C
zone in Height District Nos. 1, 1-L, 1-VL or 1-XL, the lot line of which
adjoins, is separated only by an alley adjacent to, or is located across the
street from, any portion of a lot zoned RW1 or more restrictive zone.



 



   For purposes of this definition, a Commercial Corner Development can be
located on more than one lot only if the lots are adjacent, not divided by a
public street, have a common parking area, and one or more buildings are
erected or are proposed to be erected upon the lots.



 



   COMMISSION.  (Repealed by Ord. No. 173,374, Eff. 8/3/00.)



 



   COMMUNITY APARTMENT PROJECT.  The same as defined by Section 11004 of
the California Business and Professions Code. (Added by Ord. No. 151,432,
Eff. 10/12/78.)



 



   COMPACTION. The densification of a Fill by mechanical means.  (Added
by Ord. No. 181,624, Eff. 5/9/11.)



 



   COMPOSTING FACILITY.  Any facility which processes source- separated
organic materials to a stabilized state through controlled biological
decomposition where the resultant material is beneficial to plant growth or
soil structure when used as a soil amendment.  Materials may initially be
chipped, shredded, and/or screened on site prior to being composted. 
Composting may be conducted in an in-vessel system or in the open, such as
windrow composting or aerated static pile composting.  This definition shall
not include any composting of green waste and/or wood waste conducted for
noncommercial, nonprofit purpose.  (Added by Ord. No. 170,054, 11/13/94.)



 



   CONDOMINIUM.  The same as defined by Section 783 of the California
Civil Code. (Added by Ord. No. 151.432. Eff. 10/12/78.)



 



   CONVERSION PROJECT, COMMERCIAL/INDUSTRIAL.  An existing building used
exclusively for commercial or industrial purposes, or both, proposed for
conversion to a condominium or stock cooperative to be used exclusively for
such purposes through approval of a tract or parcel map. For purposes of this
definition, the term “existing” means that the building was constructed
prior to 1945, or if it was built after 1945, a certificate of occupancy was
issued for the building prior to the time of map application. (Added by Ord.
No. 154,960, Eff. 4/3/81.)



 



   CONVERSION PROJECT, COMMERCIAL/INDUSTRIAL TO RESIDENTIAL.  An existing
building used exclusively for commercial or industrial purposes, or both,
proposed for conversion to a condominium, stock cooperative or community
apartment to be used exclusively for residential purposes through approval of
a tract or parcel map. For purposes of this definition, the term
“existing” means that the building was constructed prior to 1945 or, if
it was built after 1945, a certificate of occupancy was issued for the
building prior to the time of map application.  (Added by Ord. No. 154,960,
Eff. 4/3/81.)



 



   CONVERSION PROJECT, RESIDENTIAL.  An existing apartment house,
apartment hotel, hotel, multiple dwelling or group dwelling used exclusively
for residential purposes proposed for conversion to a condominium, stock
cooperative, or community apartment project to be used exclusively for
residential purposes through approval of a tract or parcel map. For purposes
of this definition, the term “existing” means that the building was
constructed prior to 1945 or, if it was built after 1945, a certificate of
occupancy has been issued for the building prior to the time of map
application. (Amended by Ord. No. 154,960, Eff. 4/3/81.)



 



   CONVERSION PROJECT, RESIDENTIAL TO COMMERCIAL/INDUSTRIAL.  An existing
apartment house, apartment hotel, hotel, multiple dwelling or group dwelling
used exclusively for residential purposes  proposed for conversion to a
condominium or stock cooperative which is to be used exclusively for
commercial or industrial purposes through approval of a tract or parcel map.
For purposes of this definition, the term “existing” means that the
building was constructed prior to 1945 or, if it was built after 1945, a
certificate of occupancy was issued for the building prior to the time of map
application. (Added by Ord. No. 154,960, Eff. 4/3/81.)



 



   CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS OR REGIONAL HOME OFFICE.  (Added by Ord. No.
169,366, Eff. 4/1/94.)  The main administrative center or centers of one or
more enterprises whose day-to-day functions is the retrieval and/or
dissemination of information to a subsidiary and/or client business in and
outside the City’s jurisdiction, through the means of electronic or data
processing.



 



   COUNSELING AND REFERRAL FACILITY.  (Added by Ord. No. 149,517. Eff.
5/26/77.)  A neighborhood facility which provides counseling services and
subsequently refers applicants to appropriate licensed social service
agencies offering professional remedial assistance. Counseling and referral
services may be offered in one or more of the following areas: welfare,
housing, employment, health, education, legal matters, job development,
consumer action, recreation, family problems, juvenile problems, probation,
and neighborhood improvement. Tutoring and legal aid shall be permitted as an
accessory use only.



 



   The facility may also administer the implementation of government
funded programs established to provide low-income housing, job development
classes and recreation.



 



   The facility shall:



 



   (a)   permit no more than 5 employees, and;



 



   (b)   where located in a residentially developed area, maintain the
residential character of the exterior of the building.



 



   CURB LEVEL.  The level of the established curb in front of the
building measured at the center of such front. Where no curb level has been
established, the City Engineer shall establish such curb level or its
equivalent for the purpose of this article.



 



   CURING FACILITY.  Any composting facility, as defined by this Code,
where additional and/or final biological stabilization is attained after most
of the readily metabolized material has been decomposed, and where no
chipping, grinding, or screening of material takes place.  This definition
shall not include any curing of green waste and/or wood waste conducted for
noncommercial, nonprofit purpose.  (Added by Ord. No. 170,054, 11/13/94.)



 



   CUT.  A portion of land surface or areas from which earth has been
removed or will be removed by excavation.  (Added by Ord. No. 181,624, Eff.
5/9/11.)



 



   DANCE HALL.  Any place where public dances are held or conducted,
other than when incidental to the operation of a hotel, apartment hotel,
banquet room, catering hall, church, school or lodge.  (Amended by Ord. No.
169,990, Eff. 9/17/94.)



 



   DANCE HALL, HOSTESS.  Any dance hall or place conducting public dances
where partners are provided for dancing or social contacts by those
conducting, managing, maintaining or operating such public dances for patrons
or guests and for which such patrons or guests pay a fee or other
consideration. (Added by Ord. No. 155,718, Eff. 8/6/81.)



 



   DANCE, PUBLIC.  A gathering of persons in or upon any premises where
dancing is participated in and to which premises the public is admitted.
(Added by Ord. No. 155,718, Eff. 8/6/81.)



 



   DAY CARE FACILITY. Same as Child Care Facility. (Added by Ord. No.
145,474, Eff. 3/2/74.)



 



   DAY-CARE HOME.  (Deleted by Ord. No. 173,085, Eff. 3/19/00.)



 



   DAY-CARE HOME, LARGE FAMILY.  (Deleted by Ord. No. 173,085, Eff.
3/19/00.)



 



   DAY-CARE HOME, SMALL FAMILY.  (Deleted by Ord. No. 173,085, Eff.
3/19/00.)



 



   DESTROYED. Damaged so as to not be habitable as determined by the
Department of Building and Safety.  (Added by Ord. No. 153,144, Eff.
12/28/79.)



 



   DINING AREA. A recess from a room or an alcove, adjoining and
interconnected with the kitchen by a door or opening.  (Added by Ord. No.
146,421, Eff. 9/14/74.)



 



   DIRECTOR OF PLANNING (DIRECTOR).  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,455, Eff.
9/22/00.)  The chief administrative officer of the Department of City
Planning shall be known as the Director of Planning and shall be appointed
and removed as provided in Charter Section 508.  The Director shall be
chosen on the basis of administrative and technical qualifications, with
special reference to actual experience in and knowledge of accepted practice
in the field of city planning.  The Director shall interpret the meaning of
the General Plan and specific plans in instances when there is a lack of
clarity in the meaning of those regulations, subject to appellate review. 
The Director may appoint a designee to act on his or her behalf, in which
case, references in this Code and other land use ordinances to Director shall
include this designee, unless otherwise stated.



 



   In accordance with Charter Section 553, the Director of Planning or his
or her designee shall:



 



   (a)   prepare the proposed General Plan of the City and proposed
amendments  to the General Plan;



 



   (b)   prepare all proposed zoning and other land use regulations and
requirements, including maps of all proposed districts or zones;



 



   (c)   make investigations and  act on the design and improvement of
all proposed subdivisions of land as the advisory agency under the State
Subdivision Map Act; and



 



   (d)   have additional powers and duties as are provided by ordinance.



 



   DISASTER. Fire, flood, wind, earthquake, or other calamity, act of God
or the public enemy.  (Added by Ord. No. 153,144, Eff. 12/28/79.)



 



   DORMITORY. A guest room designed, intended or occupied as sleeping
quarters by more than two persons. Every 100 square feet of superficial floor
area in a dormitory shall be considered as a separate guest room. (Added by
Ord. No. 107,884, Eff. 9/23/56.)



 



   DOWNTOWN DESIGN GUIDE PROJECT AREA.  (Added by Ord. No. 181,557, Eff.
3/15/11.)  Those portions of the Central City Community Plan Area as shown
in the shaded portion of Map A, dated April 30, 2010, and attached to Council
File No. 10-1196, generally bounded by:



 



   U.S. Highway 101 on the north, Alameda Street on the east, Second
Street on the south, and Harbor Freeway (110 Freeway) on the west;



 



   Fourth and Fifth Streets on the north, the alley easterly of Hill
Street (Lindley Place), Grand Avenue, and Olive Street on the east, Olympic
Boulevard and James M. Wood Boulevard on the south, and Harbor Freeway (110
Freeway) on the west;



 



   Olympic Boulevard and Eleventh Street on the north, Figueroa Street on
the east, Santa Monica Freeway (Interstate 10) on the south, and the Harbor
Freeway (110 Freeway) on the west; and,



 



   Ninth Street on the north, Crocker Street on the east, Twelfth Street
on the south, and Main Street on the west.



 



   DRIVE-THROUGH FAST-FOOD ESTABLISHMENT.  Any establishment which
dispenses food for consumption on or off the premises to an individual in a
vehicle.  (Added by Ord. No. 166,904, Eff. 5/18/91.)



 



   DWELLING. Any residential building, other than an Apartment House,
Hotel or Apartment Hotel. (Amended by Ord. No. 107,884, Eff. 9/23/56.)



 



   DWELLING, GROUP. Two or more one-family, two-family or multiple
dwelling, apartment houses or boarding or rooming houses, located on the same
lot.  (Amended by Ord. No. 107,884, Eff. 9/23/56.)



 



   DWELLING, MULTIPLE. A dwelling containing two dwelling units and not
more than five guest rooms. (Amended by Ord. No. 107,884, Eff. 9/23/56.)



 



   DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY. A detached dwelling containing only one dwelling
unit.  (Amended by Ord. No. 107,884, Eff. 9/23/56.)



 



   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A dwelling containing two dwelling units.
(Amended by Ord. No. 107,884, Eff. 9/23/56.)



 



   DWELLING UNIT. A group of two or more rooms, one of which is a kitchen,
designed for occupancy by one family for living and sleeping purposes. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 107,884, Eff. 9/23/56.)



 



   DWELLING UNIT, LOW INCOME. (Deleted by Ord. No. 180,308, Eff. 12/7/08.)



 



   DWELLING UNIT, MODERATE INCOME. (Deleted by Ord. No. 180,308, Eff.
12/7/08.)



 



   EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS.  Colleges or universities supported wholly
or in part by public funds and other colleges or universities  giving
general academic instruction as prescribed by the State Board of Education.



 



   EFFICIENCY DWELLING UNIT.  A room located within an apartment house or
apartment hotel used or intended to be used for residential  purposes which
has a kitchen and living and sleeping quarters combined therein, and which
complies with the requirements of Section 91.4930.2 of this Code. (Added by
Ord. No. 138,456. Eff. 5/30/69.)



 



   ELDERCARE FACILITY.  One functionally operated facility, which
provides residential housing for persons 62 years of age and older, and which
combines in one facility, two or more of the following housing types: 
Senior Independent Housing, Assisted Living Care Housing, Skilled Nursing
Care Housing, and/or Alzheimer's/Dementia Care Housing.  A minimum of 75
percent of the floor area, exclusive of common areas, shall consist of Senior
Independent Housing and/or Assisted Living Care Housing.  (Added by Ord. No.
178,063, Eff. 12/30/06.)



 



   ELEVATION.  Vertical distance in feet above sea level.  (Added by
Ord. No. 181,624, Eff. 5/9/11.)



 



   ENCROACHMENT PLANE.  An invisible inclined plane sloping inward at a
forty-five degree angle from the vertical extension of the required front and
side yard setbacks that originates at a specified height.  A building may
not intersect the encroachment plane.  The encroachment plane restriction
does not apply to roof structures and equipment as allowed by Section 12.21.1
B.3.  For the purpose of this definition, height shall be measured from the
existing or finished grade, whichever is lower, along the required front and
side yard setbacks.  (Added by Ord. No. 184,802, Eff. 3/17/17.)



 









 




Figure 12.03-1: Encroachment Plane diagram.





Different zones have different encroachment plane origin heights.  (Added by
Ord. No. 184,802, Eff. 3/17/17.)




 



   EQUINE.  Any horse, pony, donkey, burro, or mule which is 12 months of
age or older and is issued a current Equine License by the City Department of
Animal Services. An animal which is under 12 months of age and is the
offspring of or is unweaned and being nursed by a female equine lawfully kept
on the property where said animal is kept shall not be considered an equine
and shall be allowed by right on said property. (“Department of Animal
Regulation” renamed “Department of Animal Services” by Ord. No.
174,735, Eff. 9/13/02.)



 



   EQUINE ENCLOSURE.  Any structure or fence which establishes the
perimeter of an equine keeping and maintenance area.  (Added by Ord. No.
157,144. Eff. 11/22/82.)



 



   FACTORY-BUILT HOME.  A residential building, dwelling unit, or
individual dwelling room or combination of rooms, or building component,
assembly, or system manufactured in such a manner that all concealed parts or
processes of manufacture cannot be inspected before installation at the
building site without disassembly of, or damage or destruction to the part.
This home shall comply with all applicable provisions of the California State
Factory-Built Housing law. The term “factory-built home” shall not
include a mobilehome, mobile accessory building or structure, recreational
vehicle, or commercial coach.  (Added by Ord. No. 161,716, Eff. 12/6/86.)



 



   FAMILY.  One or more persons living together in a dwelling unit, with
common access to, and common use of all living, kitchen, and eating areas
within the dwelling unit.  (Amended by Ord. No. 177,325, Eff. 3/18/06.)



 



   FAMILY DAY CARE HOME - A dwelling unit that regularly provides care,
protection, and supervision for 14 or fewer children, in the provider’s own
home, for periods of less than 24 hours per day, while the parents or
guardians are away, and is either a large family day care home or a small
family day care home.  (Added by Ord. No. 173,085, Eff. 3/19/00.)



 



   FAMILY DAY CARE HOME, LARGE - A family day care home for 9 to 14
children, including children under the age of 10 years who reside at the
home, as set forth in Health and Safety Code Section 1597.465.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 176,545, Eff. 5/2/05.)



 



   FAMILY DAY CARE HOME, SMALL - A family day care home for 8 or fewer
children, including children under the age of 10 years who reside at the
home, as set forth in Health and Safety Code Section 1597.44.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 176,545, Eff. 5/2/05.)



 



   FARMING.  The cultivation of berries, flowers, fruits, grains, herbs,
mushrooms, nuts, ornamental plants, seedlings or vegetables for use on-site
or sale or distribution on-site or off-site.  (Added by Ord. No. 181,188,
Eff. 7/18/10.)



 



   FILL.  The depositing of soil, rock or other earth materials by
artificial means.  (Added by Ord. No. 181,624, Eff. 5/9/11.)



 



   FLOOR AREA.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,386, Eff. 3/13/13.)  The area
in square feet confined within the exterior walls of a Building, but not
including the area of the following:  exterior walls, stairways, shafts,
rooms housing Building-operating equipment or machinery, parking areas with
associated driveways and ramps, space dedicated to bicycle parking, space for
the landing and storage of helicopters, and Basement storage areas.



 



   Buildings on properties zoned RA, RE, RS, and R1, except properties in
the Coastal Zone which are not designated as Hillside Area, are subject to
the definition of Residential Floor Area.



 



   FLOOR AREA, RESIDENTIAL.  (Amended by Ord. No. 184,802, Eff.
3/17/17.)  The area in square feet confined within the exterior walls of a
residential or non-residential Building on a Lot in an RA, RE, RS, or R1
Zone.  Any floor or portion of a floor with a ceiling height greater than 14
feet shall count as twice the square footage of that area.  The area of
stairways and elevator shafts shall only be counted once regardless of
ceiling height.  Area of an attic or portion of an attic with a ceiling
height of more than 7 feet shall be included in the Residential Floor Area
calculation.



 



   Except that the following areas shall not be counted:



 



   1.   Required Covered Parking.



 



   (a)   The total area of 200 square feet per parking space that is
required to be covered, up to a maximum of 400 square feet, shall be exempted
from being counted as Residential Floor Area if all of said parking, whether
detached or attached, is located in accordance with the following criteria:



 



   (1)   Said parking is located within the rear half of the Lot, or at
least 55 feet from a Front Lot Line.



 



   (2)   On a Through Lot with no Rear Lot Line, said parking is set
back from both Front Lot Lines a distance of at least 40 feet.



 



   (b)   If the parking that is required to be covered is not located
in accordance with Paragraph (a) above, then only 200 square feet shall be
exempted from being counted as Residential Floor Area.



 



   (c)   In any event, the required parking area exempted from counting
as Residential Floor Area by this exception shall be limited to 400 square
feet per Lot.



 



   2.   Detached Accessory Buildings.  Detached Accessory Buildings
not exceeding 200 square feet; however, the total combined area exempted of
all the Detached Accessory Buildings on a Lot shall not exceed 400 square
feet.



 



   3.   Lattice Roof Porches, Patios, and Breezeways.  Porches,
patios, and breezeways that have a Lattice Roof, as defined in this section.



 



   4.   Basements.  For Lots not located in the Hillside Area or
Coastal Zone, any Basement when the Elevation of the upper surface of the
floor or roof above the Basement does not exceed 2 feet in height at any
point above the finished or natural Grade, whichever is lower.



 



   For Lots located in the Hillside Area, any Basement when the Elevation
of the upper surface of the floor or roof above the Basement does not exceed
3 feet in height at any point above the finished or natural Grade, whichever
is lower, for at least 60 percent of the perimeter length of the exterior
Basement walls.



 



   For all Lots, the following shall not disqualify said Basement from
this exemption:



 



   (a)   A maximum of one (1), 20-foot wide depressed driveway with
direct access to the required covered parking spaces; and



 



   (b)   A maximum of two (2) light-wells which are not visible from a
public right-of-way and do not project more than three feet from the exterior
walls of the Basement and no wider than 6 feet.



 



   FLOOR AREA RATIO (FAR).  A ratio establishing relationship between a
property and the amount of development permitted for that property, and is
expressed as a percentage or a ratio of the Buildable Area or Lot size
(example: "3 times the Buildable Area" or "3:1").  (Added by Ord. No.
181,624, Eff. 5/9/11.)



 



   FLOOR AREA RATIO, RESIDENTIAL (RFAR).  A ratio establishing the
relationship between a property and the amount of development permitted for
that property, expressed as a percentage or a ratio of the Lot size (example:
"0.45 of the Lot size").  (Added by Ord. No. 184,802, Eff. 3/17/17.)



 



   FOSTER CARE HOME.  A dwelling unit in which full-time care is provided
for unrelated children, 16 years of age or under, as part of the family, when
such use is licensed by the State of California or other agency designated by
the State as a full-time foster home. Foster care children may be in addition
to those permitted under the definition of “Family” contained in this
section.  (Added by Ord. No. 145,474, Eff. 3/2/74)



 



   FRONTAGE.  All property fronting on one (1) side of a street between
intersecting or intercepting streets, or between a street and right-of-way,
waterway, end of dead-end street, or city boundary measured along the street
line. An intercepting street shall determine only the boundary of the
frontage on the side of the street which it intercepts.



 



   GARAGE, PRIVATE.  An accessory building or portion of a main building
designed or used for parking or storage of motor vehicles of the occupants of
a residential use.  (Amended by Ord. No. 144,082, Eff. 12/11/72.)



 



   GARAGE, PUBLIC.  A building or portion of a building designed or used
for the repairing, equipping or servicing of motor vehicles, or for the
parking or storage of motor vehicles for remuneration, hire, sale, or
convenience of the occupants of the premises or the general public, but not
including a private garage. (Amended by Ord. No. 144,082, Eff. 12/11/72.)



 



   GENERAL PLAN.  A General Plan is a comprehensive declaration of
purposes, policies and programs for the development of the city, which
includes, where applicable, diagrams, maps and text setting forth objections,
principles, standards and other features, and which has been adopted by the
City Council. (Added by Ord. No. 138,800, Eff. 6/13/69, Oper. 6/23/69.)



 



   GRADE (ADJACENT GROUND LEVEL).  Is the lowest point of elevation of
the finished surface of the ground, paving or sidewalk within the area
between the building and the property line, or when the property line is more
than 5 feet from the building, between the building and a line 5 feet from
the building. This definition does not apply to any building or structure
located within the boundaries of the Century City North or Century City South
Specific Plans and which is subject to Section 12.21.2 of this Code. (Amended
by Ord. No. 160,657, Eff. 2/17/86, Oper. 6/17/86.)



 



   GRADE, HILLSIDE AREA.  For the purpose of measuring height on an R1,
RS, RE, or RA zoned Lot in the Hillside Area, pursuant to Section 12.21 C.10.
of this Code, Hillside Area Grade shall be defined as the Elevation, at the
perimeter of a Building or Structure, of the finished or natural surface of
the ground, whichever is lower, or the finished surface of the ground
established in conformance with a grading plan approved pursuant to a
recorded tract or parcel map action.  Retaining walls shall not raise the
effective Elevation of Grade for purposes of measuring Height of a Building
or Structure  (Amended by Ord. No. 184,802, Eff. 3/17/17.)



 



   GRADING.  Any Cut or Fill, or combination thereof, or recompaction of
soil, rock or other earth materials.  (Added by Ord. No. 181,624, Eff.
5/9/11.)



 



   GRADING, LANDFORM.  A contour grading method which creates artificial
Slopes with curves and varying Slope ratios in the horizontal plane designed
to simulate the appearance of surrounding natural terrain.  The graded
Slopes are non-linear in plan view, have varying Slope gradients, and
significant transition zones between human-made and natural Slopes resulting
in pad configurations that are irregular.  The concept of Landform Grading
incorporates the created ravine and ridge shapes with protective drainage
control systems and integrated landscaping designs.  (Added by Ord. No.
181,624, Eff. 5/9/11.)



 



   GRADING, REMEDIAL.  For the purposes of Section 12.21 C.10. of this
Code, Remedial Grading shall mean grading recommended by a California
Licensed Geologist and/or Licensed Engineer prepared in accordance with
Sections 91.7006.2, 91.7006.3, and 91.7006.4 of this Code, and approved by
the Department of Building and Safety - Grading Division, that is necessary
to mitigate a geologic or geotechnical hazard on a site (including for access
driveways), including, but not limited to: 1) correction of hazardous soil
and earth conditions, when notified by the Department of Building and Safety
in accordance with Section 91.7005.7 of this Code, 2) removal and
re-compaction of soil for a Building site to remediate expansive,
compressible or seismically unstable soils, 3) grading required to provide a
minimum factor of safety of 1.5 for stability of slopes, and/or 4) grading to
bring existing steep non-conforming graded slopes into conformance with
current Code requirements for fill and excavated slope gradients.  (Added by
Ord. No. 181,624, Eff. 5/9/11.)



 



   GREATER DOWNTOWN HOUSING INCENTIVE AREA.  Those portions of the
Central City and Southeast Community Plan Areas generally bounded by the 101
Freeway on the north, the 110 freeway and Figueroa Street (south of Adams
Blvd) on the west, Alameda and Grand Avenue (south of 21st Street) on the
east, and Washington Boulevard and Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd (west of
Broadway) on the south as shown in the shaded portion of Map A, dated January
23, 2007, attached to Council File No. 05-1173.  (Added by Ord. No. 179,076,
Eff. 9/23/07.)



 



   GREEN WASTES.  All yard trimmings and/or leaves, grass clippings,
agricultural wastes and vegetative landscaping materials generated from the
maintenance of yards, parks or other similar facilities.  (Added by Ord. No.
170,054, 11/13/94.)



 



   GROUND FLOOR.  The story or basement within a portion of a building
that has an access door that is directly accessible to and fronts on the
street, and the elevation of the floor level is within three feet above or
below the adjacent curb.  The point on the adjacent curb is determined by
drawing a line perpendicular to the door between the centerline of such door
and the curb of the street.  No portion of a ground floor can be located
directly above or below another ground floor.  (Added by Ord. No. 174,999,
Eff. 1/15/03.)



 



   GUEST HOUSE.  A dwelling containing not more than five guest rooms or
suites of rooms, but with no kitchen facilities.  (Amended by Ord. No.
107,884, Eff. 9/23/56.)



 



   GUEST ROOM.  Any habitable room except a kitchen, designed or used for
occupancy by one or more persons and not in a dwelling unit. (Added by Ord.
No. 107,884, Eff. 9/23/56.)



 



   HEIGHT OF BUILDING OR STRUCTURE.  Is the vertical distance above grade
measured to the highest point of the roof, structure, or the parapet wall,
whichever is highest. Retaining walls shall not be used for the purpose of
raising the effective elevation of the finished grade for purposes of
measuring the height of a building or structure. This definition does not
apply to any building or structure located within the boundaries of the
Century City North and Century City South Specific Plans and which is subject
to Section 12.21.2 of this Code.  (Added by Ord. No. 160,657, Eff. 2/17/86,
Oper. 6/17/86.)



 



   HIGHWAY, MAJOR.  Any street designated as a major highway  on the
Highways and Freeways maps of the Transportation Element of the General
Plan.  (Amended by Ord. No. 172,840, Eff. 11/4/99.)



 



   HIGHWAY, SECONDARY. Any street designated as a secondary highway on the
Highways and Freeways maps of the Transportation Element of the General
Plan.  (Amended by Ord. No. 172,840, Eff. 11/4/99.)



 



   HILLSIDE AREA.  Any land designated as Hillside Area as shown in the
shaded portion of the Department of City Planning Hillside Area Map, dated
September 23, 2009, attached to Council File No. 09-1390.  The map is
maintained by the Department of City Planning as part of the Geographic
Information Systems database.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,128, Eff. 5/3/10.)



 



   HISTORIC VEHICLE COLLECTION.  One or more vehicles, as defined by
Sections 5004(a)(1), (2) and (3) of the California Vehicle Code, special
interest vehicles, as defined by Section 5051(b) of the California Vehicle
Code, out-of-production vehicles of historical importance, as determined by
the Zoning Administrator or parts cars, as defined in Section 5051(c) of the
California Vehicle Code, which are collected, restored, or maintained for
non-commercial hobby or historical purposes. (Added by Ord. No. 161,931, Eff.
3/2/87.)



 



   HIVE.  (Added by Ord. No. 183,920, Eff. 12/6/15.)  A structure that
houses a bee colony.



 



   HOME OCCUPATION. An occupation carried on by the occupant or occupants
of a dwelling as a secondary use in connection with the main use of the
property, subject to the regulations of Section 12.05 A.16. of this Code. 
For dwelling units where a home occupation is conducted, the home occupation
shall be considered a residential use for zoning purposes.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 171,427, Eff. 1/4/97, Oper. 3/5/97.)



 



   HOME-SHARING.  An accessory use of a Host's Primary Residence for a
maximum of 120 days in a calendar year for the purpose of providing
Short-Term Rental in compliance with the registration and other requirements
of Los Angeles Municipal Code Section 12.22 A.32.  For purposes of this
definition, the terms "Host", "Short-Term Rental" and "Primary Residence"
shall have the same meaning as defined in Section 12.22 A.32. of this Code. 
(Added by Ord. No. 185,931, Eff. 7/1/19.)



 



   HOSTEL.  A one-family dwelling, boarding or rooming house, dormitory,
apartment hotel or apartment house which is advertised as a hostel or which
is listed with any recognized national or international hostel
organization.  (Added by Ord. No 167,689, Eff. 5/9/92.)



 



   HOTEL.  A residential building designated or used for or containing
six or more guest rooms, or suites of rooms, which may also contain not more
than one dwelling unit, but not including any institution in which human
beings are housed or detained under legal restraint. (Amended by Ord. No.
138,685, Eff. 7/10/69.)



 



   HOUSEHOLD, LOW INCOME.  (Deleted by Ord. No. 180,308, Eff. 12/7/08.)



 



   HOUSEHOLD, MODERATE INCOME.  (Deleted by Ord. No. 180,308, Eff.
12/7/08.)



 



   HOUSEHOLD MOVING RENTAL TRUCK.  Any motor vehicle which is displayed,
stored or offered for rental without a driver, used and maintained solely for
the transportation of property, primarily used for the do-it-yourself
movement of personal or household goods by private individuals on a
short-term basis, having only two axles, and equipped with a body of no more
than 22 feet in length measured at the vehicle chassis nor more than 12 feet
in height measured from the surface upon which the involved truck rests. Such
vehicle may exceed 5600 pounds in registered net weight.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 151,717, Eff. 1/13/79.)



 



   HOUSING AUTHORITY.  (Deleted by Ord. No. 180,308, Eff. 12/7/08.)



 



   HOUSING DEVELOPMENT.  The construction pursuant to a building permit
of, or the proposed conversion to condominium ownership pursuant to a final
subdivision tract map submitted for approval of any apartment house,
apartment hotel, multiple dwelling or group dwelling, residential condominium
development or cooperative apartment home having five or more dwelling units.
(Added by Ord. No. 145,927, Eff. 6/3/74.)



 



   HOUSING DIRECTOR.  (Deleted by Ord. No. 180,308, Eff. 12/7/08.)



 



   INOPERABLE VEHICLE.  Any motor vehicle or trailer which is incapable
of immediate and sustained movement for which it was designed.  (Added by
Ord. No. 176,840, Eff. 9/4/05.)



 



   IN-VESSEL COMPOSTING.  A process in which compostable material is
enclosed in a drum, silo or similar structure where the environmental
conditions are controlled and the compostable material is aerated and
mechanically agitated.  This process allows for accelerated decomposition. 
(Added by Ord. No. 170,054, 11/13/94.)



 



   JOINT LIVING AND WORK QUARTERS. A residential occupancy of one or more
rooms or floors used as a dwelling unit with adequate work space reserved
for, and regularly used by, one or more persons residing there.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 181,133, Eff. 5/11/10.)



 



   JUNIOR ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT (JADU).  A unit that is no more than
500 square feet in size and contained entirely within a single-family
residence.  A Junior Accessory Dwelling unit may include separate sanitation
facilities, or may share sanitation facilities with the existing structure. 
(Added by Ord. No. 186,481, Eff. 12/19/19.)



 



   JUNK YARD.  Any property or place where the business of a junk dealer,
as defined by either Section 21601 of the California Business and
Profession’s Code or Section 103.305 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code, is
conducted – other than wholly within an enclosed building. In addition, a
junk yard shall include property used for the storage of impounded,
abandoned, partially dismantled, obsolete or wrecked automobiles – other
than wholly within an enclosed building. Junk Yard does not include an
Historic Vehicle Collection when maintained as an Accessory Use as defined by
Section 12.03 of the Municipal Code, or Scrap Metal Processing Yard as
defined in the Municipal Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 161,931, Eff. 3/2/87.)



 



   KENNEL.  Any lot, building, structure, enclosure or premises where
four or more dogs that are each at least four months of age are kept or
maintained, with the exception of a Pet Shop.  (Amended by Ord. No. 186,372,
Eff. 12/10/19.)



 



   A municipality may lawfully regulate the number of dogs that may be
kept and may also prescribe an age limit.



   Miller v. City of Arcadia, (1932) 121 Cal. App. 660.



 



   KITCHEN.  Any room or any portion of a dwelling unit, whether an
enclosing subdivision thereof or otherwise, used or intended or designed to
be used for cooking and preparing food except a light housekeeping room or
that portion of a recreation room in a multiple residential use, or in an
accessory building appurtenant thereto, containing the facilities for the
cooking and preparation of food.  (Amended by Ord. No. 140,191, Eff.
5/15/70, Operative 10/12/70.)



 



   LEACHATES.  Any liquid which has come into contact with or percolated
through composting or curing materials and contains extracted or dissolved
substances therefrom, or any other liquid which has been generated by the
decomposition process.  (Added by Ord. No. 170,054, 11/13/94.)



 



   LIGHT HOUSEKEEPING ROOM.  Any guest room which is designed and used as
a bedroom and for the cooking and preparing of food, in a conformance with
the provisions of Section 91.4930.1 of Article 1, Chapter 9 of this Code. For
the purpose of applying the lot area and automobile parking space
requirements of the various zones, each light housekeeping room shall be
considered as a separate guest room.  (Added by Ord. No. 113,548, Eff.
6/10/59.)



 



   LOADING SPACE.  An off street space or berth on the same lot with a
building, or contiguous to a group of buildings, for the temporary parking of
a commercial vehicle while loading or unloading merchandise or materials, and
which abuts upon a street, alley or other appropriate means of access.



 



   LOT.  A parcel of land occupied or to be occupied by a use, building
or unit group of buildings and accessory buildings and uses, together with
the yards, open spaces, lot width and lot area as are required by this
chapter and fronting for a distance of at least 20 feet upon a street as
defined here, or upon a private street as defined in Article 8 of this
chapter.  The width of an access-strip portion of a lot shall not be less
than 20 feet at any point.  In a residential planned development or an
approved small lot subdivision a lot need have only the street frontage or
access as is provided on the recorded subdivision tract or parcel map for the
development.  (Amended by Ord. No. 176,354, Eff. 1/31/05.)



 



   LOT –  AIR SPACE. (Added by Ord. No. 156,681, Eff. 6/21/82.) A
division of the space above or below a lot as defined in this section with a
finite width, length, and upper and lower elevation occupied or to be
occupied by a use, building or portion thereof, unit group of buildings or
portions thereof, and accessory buildings or portions thereof or accessory
uses. An air space lot shall be identified on a final map or a parcel map
recorded in the office of the County Recorder with a separate and distinct
number or letter.



 



   An air space lot shall have such access to a street (as defined in this
section) or private street (as defined in Article 8 of this chapter) by means
of one or more easements or other entitlements to use in a form satisfactory
to the Advisory Agency and the City Engineer.



 



   LOT, CORNER.  A lot situated at the intersection of two (2) or more
streets having an angle of intersection of not more than one hundred thirty
five (135) degrees.



 



   LOT, DOWNHILL.  A Lot for which the Front Lot Line, or Street which
serves as the primary vehicular access point for the required parking, is at
a higher Elevation than the Rear Lot Line.  (Added by Ord. No. 181,624, Eff.
5/9/11.)



 



   LOT, FLAG.  A lot so shaped and designed that the main building site
area is set back from the street on which it fronts and includes an access
strip not less than 20 feet in width at any point connecting the main
building site area to the frontage street. (Added by Ord. No. 137,956, Eff.
3/2/69.)



 



   LOT, INTERIOR.  A lot other than a corner lot.



 



   LOT, KEY.  The first interior lot to the rear of a reversed corner lot
and not separated therefrom by an alley.



 



   LOT, REVERSED CORNER.  A corner lot the side street line of which is
substantially a continuation of the front line of the first lot to its rear.



 



   LOT, THROUGH.  A lot having a frontage on two parallel or
approximately parallel streets, but not including those lots having frontage
on a street and frontage on a navigable public canal or waterway parallel or
approximately parallel to said street.  (Amended by Ord. No. 184,802, Eff.
3/17/17.)



 



   LOT, TRANSITIONAL.  The first 100 feet of a lot in an RA or R Zone
having a side line adjoining or separated only by an alley from a lot in a C
or M Zone.  (Amended by Ord. No. 111,049, Eff. 5/3/58.)



 



   LOT, UPHILL.  A Lot for which the Front Lot Line, or Street which
serves as the primary vehicular access point for the required parking, is at
a lower Elevation than the Rear Lot Line.  (Added by Ord. No. 181,624, Eff.
5/9/11.)



 



   LOT, VACANT.  A lot on which no building, temporary or permanent, is
erected.  (Added by Ord. No. 153,361, Eff. 3/2/80.)



 



   LOT AREA.  The total horizontal area within the lot lines of a lot.



 



   LOT DEPTH.  The horizontal distance between the front and rear lot
lines measured in the mean direction of the side lot lines.



 



   LOT LINE, FRONT.  In the case of an interior lot, the line separating
the lot from the street or place, and in the case of a corner lot, a line
separating the narrowest street frontage of the lot from the street, except
in those cases where the latest tract deed restrictions specify another line
as the front lot line.



 



   LOT LINE, REAR.  A lot line which is opposite and most distant from
the front lot line and, in the case of an irregular, triangular, or
gore-shaped lot, a line ten (10) feet in length within the lot, parallel to
and at the maximum distance from the front line.



 



   LOT LINE, SIDE.  Any lot boundary line not a front lot line or a rear
lot line.



 



   LOT WIDTH.  The horizontal distance between the side lot lines
measured at right angles to the lot depth at a point midway between the front
and rear lot lines.



 



   LOW TO MODERATE COST HOUSING.  Housing for which the rent does not
exceed the current Fair Market Rent for Existing Housing standards applicable
to Los Angeles City as established for Section 8 and 23 Housing Assistance
Payments Program by the United States Department of Housing and Urban
Development. (Added by Ord. No. 151,432, Eff. 10/12/78.)



 



   MAJOR REMODEL - HILLSIDE.  Any remodeling of a main building on a lot
in the Hillside Area whenever the aggregate value of all alterations within a
one-year period exceeds 50 percent of the replacement cost of the main
building.  (Added by Ord. No. 168,159, Eff. 9/14/92.)



 



   MANUFACTURED HOME.  The term “manufactured home” shall include a
factory-built home and mobilehome but shall not include a recreational
vehicle, or commercial coach.  (Added by Ord. No. 161,716, Eff. 12/6/86.)



 



   MINI-SHOPPING CENTER.  (Amended by Ord. No. 175,223, Eff. 6/30/03.) 
A building or group of buildings located on a lot or lots, having all of the
following characteristics:



 



   (1)   Size - comprised of less than 65,000 square feet of lot area
before any dedications required in connection with the building permit or
other permits for the Mini-Shopping Center;



 



   (2)   Use - used for more than one retail establishment, such as a
store, shop, business, service or facility;



 



   (3)   Zoning - located in the C or M1, M2 or M3 Zones; and



 



   (4)   Improvements - improved with a structure or structures that do
not exceed a height of three stories.



 



   For purposes of this definition, a Mini-Shopping Center can be located
on more than one lot only if the lots are adjacent, not divided by a public
street, have a common parking area, and one or more buildings are erected or
are proposed to be erected upon the lots.



 



   The definition of Mini-Shopping Center shall not include the following:



 



   An automobile service station, including service bay areas, where
accessory food sales do not exceed 600 square feet of floor area and other
accessory uses do not exceed 500 square feet of floor area; or



 



   Commercial buildings composed of general business or professional
offices, including those of a real estate or stock broker, or an insurance or
building and loan company, with 30% or less of the total square footage
containing related commercial/retail uses that are located on the first and
second floors, so long as parking is provided for the commercial/retail uses
as required by Section 12.21 A.4.



 



   MINOR EMERGENCY REPAIRS.  Those repairs to a currently State licensed
motor vehicle owned by the occupants of the property which do not require the
complete immobilization of the vehicle in excess of 24 hours duration or does
not require the removal of the engine transmission, rear-end or more than one
wheel. Minor emergency repairs does not include body and fender work. (Added
by Ord. No. 137,210, Eff. 10/12/68.)



 



   MOBILE MEDICAL FACILITY.  A vehicle, or portable structure transported
by a vehicle, easily transportable in one or more sections, which is used to
provide primarily diagnostic or preventive medical services on a temporary
basis in any one location.  (Added by Ord. No. 166,045, Eff. 8/17/90.)



 



   MOBILEHOME. When used in Sections 12.08.1, 12.09.3, and 12.24 of this
Code, this term shall mean a structure transportable in one or more sections,
designed and equipped to be used as a dwelling unit or accessory to a
dwelling unit. This structure shall comply with all applicable provisions of
the California State Mobilehomes – Manufactured Housing Act. The term
“mobilehome” shall not include a factory–built home, recreational
vehicle, or commercial coach. (Amended by Ord. No. 164,904, Eff. 7/6/89.)



 



   MOBILEHOME PARK.  When used in Sections 12.09.3, 12.24, and 17.50 of
this Code, this term shall mean any lot or portion of a lot used to provide
rental or lease sites for two or more individual mobilehomes or trailers used
as one–family dwellings. (Amended by Ord. No. 164,904, Eff. 7/6/89.)



 



   MOBILEHOME SITE.  When used in Section 12.24 of this Code, this term
shall mean that portion of a mobilehome park set aside and designated for the
occupancy of a mobilehome or trailer and including the area set aside or used
for parking and buildings or structures such as awnings, cabanas or ramadas
which are accessory to the mobilehome or trailer.  (Added by Ord. No.
161,716, Eff. 12/6/86.)



 



   MODEL DWELLING.  (Deleted by Ord. No. 172,839, Eff. 11/1/99.)



 



   MOVABLE TINY HOUSE.  (Added by Ord. No. 186,481, Eff. 12/19/19.)  An
enclosed space intended for separate, independent living quarters of one
Family as defined in Section 12.03 of this Code and that meets all of the
following:



 



   (a)   Is licensed and registered with the California Department of
Motor Vehicles;



 



   (b)   Meets the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) 119.5
requirements or the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 1192
standards, and is certified for ANSI or NFPA compliance;



 



   (c)   Cannot move under its own power;



 



   (d)   Is no larger than allowed by California State Law for movement
on public highways; and



 



   (e)   Is no smaller than 150 and no larger than 430 square feet as
measured within the exterior faces of the exterior walls.



 



   MULCH.  A woody vegetative material used as a nonnutritive ground
cover to control erosion, improve water retention and retard weed growth. 
(Added by Ord. No. 170,054, 11/13/94.)



 



   MULCHING FACILITY.  Any facility which receives, temporarily stores
and processes primarily source-separated carbonaceous wood waste and/or yard
trimmings into a mulch.  Examples of such materials include clean wood
waste, tree and shrub trimming, leaves and other high carbon, low nitrogen
material which decompose at a slow rate and have little leachate or
odor-causing potential.  Processing of such materials is achieved by
chipping and screening to attain a uniform particle size and may include
limited aging of the material to achieve a desired appearance.  This
definition shall not include any mulching of green waste and/or wood waste
conducted for noncommercial, nonprofit purpose.  (Added by Ord. No. 170,054,
11/13/94.)



 



   NATURE PRESERVE.  An area in its natural state which serves as a
habitat for flora and/or fauna indigenous to the area, or as a corridor
linking such habitats, including but not limited to a bird sanctuary, and
which is designated as a nature preserve on the applicable community or
district plan by footnote or other means, and where permitted uses are only
incidental to the preservation and enhancement of the preserve.  (Added by
Ord. No. 166,168, Eff. 10/3/90.)



 



   NONCONFORMING BUILDING.  A building, structure or portion thereof,
which does not conform to the regulations of this chapter and which lawfully
existed at the time the regulations, with which it does not conform, became
effective.



 



   NONCONFORMING LOT.  A lot whose width, area or other dimensions does
not conform to the regulations of this chapter and which lawfully existed at
the time the regulations with which it does not conform became effective.
(Amended by Ord. No. 127,777, Eff. 8/1/64.)



 



   NONCONFORMING USE.  A use of building or land which does not conform
to the regulations of this chapter and which lawfully existed at the time the
regulations with which it does not conform became effective.



 



   OUTDOOR EATING AREA.  When used in Sections 12.12.2, 12.13, 12.14,
12.21.1 and 12.24, this term shall refer to a covered or uncovered portion of
a ground floor restaurant which is not completely enclosed within the
building; is used primarily for the consumption of food and/or drinks by the
patrons of the restaurant; and is not larger than 50 percent of the dining
area of the ground floor restaurant. A “ground floor” restaurant refers
to any restaurant with an average finished floor elevation either below or
not more than three feet above natural grade as measured from any point along
the exterior building wall closest to the restaurant.  (Amended by Ord. No.
165,403, Eff. 2/17/90.)



 



   PARALLEL PARKING STALL.  A parking stall having its length parallel
with its access aisle. (Amended by Ord. No. 142,306, Oper. 2/9/72.)



 



   PARKING AREA, PRIVATE.  An open area located on the same lot with a
dwelling, apartment house, hotel or apartment hotel, for the parking of
automobiles of the occupants of such building. (Amended by Ord. No. 138,859,
Eff. 8/21/69.)



 



   PARKING AREA, PUBLIC.  Any open area other than a street or a private
parking area, used for the parking of more than four automobiles.



 



   PARKING BAY.  The width of two rows of parking stalls and the aisle
between, or on a single loaded aisle with width of one row of parking stalls
and the access aisle.  (Added by Ord. No. 142,306, Oper. 2/9/72.)



 



   PARKING. BUILDING.  Any garage designed and used primarily for the
parking of automobiles. (Amended by Ord. No. 144,082, Eff. 12/11/72.)



 



   PARKING SPACE, AUTOMOBILE.  Space within a building or a private or
public parking area, exclusive of driveways, ramps, columns, office and work
areas, for the parking of one (1) automobile.



 



   PARKING STALL.  Same as Parking Space, Automobile. (Added by Ord. No.
142,306, Oper. 2/9/72.)



 



   PET SHOP.  Any retail or commercial establishment, store or department
of any store, or any place of business open to the public where dogs, cats,
rabbits, birds, reptiles or any other animals are kept and offered for
adoption or sale, for hire, or sold, irrespective of the age of the animals,
provided that the facility operates pursuant to a pet shop permit issued by
the Department of Animal Services, and is not used for the breeding of dogs,
cats or rabbits or the commercial boarding of animals.  The term "Pet Shop"
shall include "Pet Store", and "Animal Adoption Facility".  (Added by Ord.
No. 186,372, Eff. 12/10/19.)



 



   PHILANTHROPIC INSTITUTION.  A nonprofit, charitable institution
devoted to the housing, training or care of children, or of aged, indigent,
handicapped or underprivileged persons, but not including the following:
office buildings, except as an accessory to and located on the same lot with
an institutional activity, as listed above; hospitals, clinics or
sanitariums, correctional institutions, institutions or homes for the insane
or those of unsound mind; lodging houses or dormitories providing temporary
quarters for transient unemployed persons; organizations devoted to
collecting and salvaging new or used materials, or organizations devoted
principally to distributing food, clothing or supplies on a charitable basis.



 



   POOL.  Any constructed pool used for swimming, bathing or wading or as
a fishpond or similar use. (Added by Ord. No. 109,714, Eff. 8/26/57.)



 



   PRINCIPAL USE.  The main permitted use of land or structures as 
distinguished from an accessory use. (Added by Ord. No. 152,467, Eff.
7/14/79.)



 



   RECREATION ROOM.  A room contained in either a main building or an
accessory building, designed to be utilized primarily for games, the pursuit
of hobbies, social gatherings, and such activities. Such a room may contain
such plumbing fixtures as are utilized in a bar or for hobby activities. Such
a room in a single-family or two-family dwelling or in an accessory building
appurtenant to a single-family or two-family dwelling, may not include
facilities for the cooking and preparation of food. However, in a multiple
residential use or in an accessory building appurtenant thereto, a recreation
room which is for the common use of all the dwelling units therein may
contain the facilities for the cooking and preparing of food. (Added by Ord.
No. 138,685. Eff. 7/10/69.)



 



   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.  A portable vehicle mounted on wheels, with or
without motive power, and primarily designed and constructed to provide human
habitation for recreational, camping, travel or emergency purposes. (Added by
Ord. No. 161,716, Eff. 12/6/86.)



 



   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK. Any lot or portion of a lot permitted by
conditional use to provide rental or lease sites for individual recreational
vehicles which are occupied for temporary purposes. (Added by Ord. No.
161,716, Eff. 12/ 6/86.)



 



   RECYCLABLE MATERIALS. Items or materials to be recycled or reused,
including but not limited to yard waste, paper, plastic, glass, metal,
newspaper, and cardboard.  (Added by Ord. No. 171,687, Eff. 8/19/97.)



 



   RECYCLING AREA OR ROOM.  An outdoor space or a room within a building
which is designated for the collection of Recyclable Materials generated by
the use(s) occupying only that site, is approved by the Fire Department and
the Department of Building and Safety, and has the space to accommodate
Recycling Receptacles.  (Added by Ord. No. 171,687, Eff. 8/19/97.)



 



   RECYCLING CENTER, MOBILE.  A receptacle, usually a trailer, for the
collection of recyclable materials that is drawn by motor power and bears a
valid state license.  (Added by Ord. No. 158,503, Eff. 1/1/84.)



 



   RECYCLING CENTER OPERATOR OR JUNK DEALER.  A person having a fixed
place of business in the City and engaging in, conducting, managing or
carrying on the business of buying, selling or otherwise charging or
re-selling for reuse, materials approved for collection at an approved
Recycling Center or Buyback Center, Recycling Materials Processing Facility,
Recycling Materials Sorting Facility or Junk Yard as defined by this Code. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 171,687, Eff. 8/19/97.)



 



   RECYCLING CENTER OR SITE.  (Definition Deleted by Ord. No. 171,687,
Eff. 8/19/97.)



 



   RECYCLING CHUTE.  Any vertical smooth shaft used to convey recyclable
materials from the upper floors of a building to a recyclable storage bin or
room at the bottom end of the chute.  (Added by Ord. No. 181,227. Eff.
9/1/10.)



 



   RECYCLING COLLECTION OR BUYBACK CENTER.  A facility where Recyclable
Materials are deposited or redeemed for monetary value, and which may include
baling or crushing operations for the purposes of efficiency of storage and
transfer (volume reduction), but shall not include sorting or processing
activities for other than temporary storage purposes.  (Added by Ord. No.
171,687, Eff. 8/19/97.)



 



   RECYCLING MATERIALS PROCESSING FACILITY.  A facility which accepts
Recyclable Materials for sorting and processing on the site.  For the
purpose of this definition, processing shall mean the process of changing the
physical characteristics of a Recyclable Material, including the shredding,
smelting, grinding and crushing of cans, bottles, and other materials, for
other than temporary storage purposes.  (Added by Ord. No. 171,687, Eff.
8/19/97.)



 



   RECYCLING MATERIALS SORTING FACILITY.  A facility which accepts
commingled or source-separated Recyclable Materials of various types, which
are separated on the site using a manual or automated system.  For the
purpose of this definition, source-separated Recyclable Materials are those
which are separated from the waste stream at their point of generation for
the purpose of recycling.  This may include baling or crushing operations
for the purposes of efficiency of storage and transfer (volume reduction),
but shall not include processing activities for other than temporary storage
purposes.  (Added by Ord. No. 171,687, Eff. 8/19/97.)



 



   RECYCLING RECEPTACLE.  A container which is suitable for the
collection of Recyclable Materials.  Containers shall be covered, durable,
waterproof, rustproof, and of incombustible construction, and shall provide
protection against the environment or be in completely enclosed indoor
recycling areas.  Containers must be clearly labeled to indicate the type of
material to be deposited.  (Added by Ord. No. 171,687, Eff. 8/19/97.)



 



   REGISTERED NET WEIGHT.  Registered net weight or a commercial vehicle
is the unladen weight, as that term is defined by State Vehicle Code Section
660 and evidenced on the registration card kept within a commercial vehicle
pursuant to State Vehicle Code Section 4454 or 4455 as the registration
weight of a commercial vehicle pursuant to State Vehicle Code Section 9400.
(Added by Ord. No. 148,857, Eff. 10/30/76.)



 



   RENTABLE FLOOR AREA.  The floor area in a building, exclusive of
corridors, stairs, elevator shafts, lavoratories, flues and janitor’s
storage closets.



 



   RESIDENTIAL BUILDING.  A building or portion thereof designed or used
for human habitation. (Added by Ord. No. 107,884, Eff. 9/23/56.)



 



   RESIDENTIAL PLANNING DEVELOPMENT.  A group of residential  buildings
and appurtenant structures located and arranged in accordance with the
requirement of the RPD - residential planned development district (Sec.
13.04) in which the property is located. A residential planned development
may include schools. It may also  include churches, hospitals, infirmaries,
recreational and commercial uses, as an integral part of the development and
intended for use by its occupants, to an extent commensurate with the planned
population of the RPD district. (Added by Ord. No. 141,474, Eff. 2/27/71.)



 



   RESIDENTIAL VEHICLE.  A mobilehome, or a travel trailer containing a
minimum of two hundred and twenty (220) square feet of superficial floor area
exclusive of bath, closet and water closet areas, as defined by the
California Health and Safety Code Sections 18211 and 18219. Such residential
vehicle shall contain cooking, eating, sleeping, toilet and bathing
facilities and shall display a California Department of Housing and Community
Development insignia issued within one year prior to the date of application
for the use of land permit herein required and a valid current California
vehicle license.  (Added by Ord. No. 153,144, Eff. 12/28/79.)



 



   RETIREMENT HOTEL.  A building with guest rooms and/or dwelling units
in which 90 percent or more of the occupants are age 62 or older and for
which a covenant running with the land is recorded limiting the use as such
for as long as the building contains any guest rooms. (Added by Ord. No.
159,714, Eff. 4/8/85.)



 



   REVERSE VENDING MACHINE.  An automated mechanical device which accepts
one or more types of empty beverage containers including aluminum cans, glass
and plastic bottles, and which issues a cash refund or a redeemable credit
slip with a value not less than the container’s redemption value as
determined by the State of California.  A reverse vending machine may sort
and process containers mechanically, provided that the entire process is
enclosed within the machine.  (Added by Ord. No. 168,662, Eff. 4/29/93.)



 



   REVERSE VENDING MACHINE COMMODITY STORAGE BIN.  A  non-automated
container which is covered and made of durable, incombustible, rustproof and
waterproof construction, which is used to store the processed aluminum cans,
glass and plastic bottles that are removed from a reverse vending machine. 
(Added by Ord. No. 168,662, Eff. 4/29/93.)



 



   ROOF, LATTICE.  A roof covering constructed as an Open Egg-Crate Roof
or Spaced Roof.  An Open Egg-Crate roof is constructed of lattice members so
that a sphere of 10 inches minimum in diameter can pass through.  All
lattice members must have a minimum nominal width of 2 inches.  A Spaced
Roof is constructed of members running in one direction only with a minimum
clear spacing between the members of not less than 4 inches.  In addition,
beams supporting and placed perpendicular to the members shall be spaced not
less than 24 inches on center.  All members or beams must have a minimum
nominal width of 2 inches.  (Added by Ord. No. 181,624, Eff. 5/9/11.)



 



   ROOM, HABITABLE.  (Amended by Ord. No. 146,421, Eff. 9/14/74.)  An
enclosed subdivision in a residential building commonly used for living
purposes, but not including any lobby, hall, closet, storage space, water
closet, bath, toilet, slop sink, general utility room or service porch. A
recess from a room or an alcove (other than a dining area) having 50 square
feet or more of floor area and so located that it could be partitioned off to
form a habitable room, shall be considered a habitable room.



 



   For the purpose of applying the automobile parking space requirements
of this article, any kitchen as defined herein shall be considered a
habitable room and, if it is a part of a room designed for other than food
preparation or eating purposes, such remaining portion shall also be
considered a habitable room.



 



   For the purpose of applying the lot area requirements of this article,
a kitchen less than 100 square feet of room area from wall to wall shall not
be considered a habitable room.



 



   For the purpose of applying the open space requirements of Section
12.21 G., a kitchen as defined herein shall not be considered a habitable
room.  (Fourth Para. Added by Ord. No. 171,753, Eff. 11/17/97.)



 



   SCHOOLS, ELEMENTARY AND HIGH.  An institution of learning which offers
instruction in several branches of learning and study required to be taught
in the public schools by the Education Code of the State of California. High
schools include Junior and Senior.



 



   SCRAP METAL PROCESSING YARD.  Any establishment or place of business
which is maintained, used or operated solely for the processing and preparing
of scrap metal for remelting by steel mills and foundries.  (Added by Ord.
No. 145,040, Eff. 10/15/73.)



 



   SENIOR INDEPENDENT HOUSING.  Residential housing that consists of
dwelling units for persons 62 years of age and older and may include common
dining areas or other community rooms.  Full time medical services shall not
be provided on the premises.  It may be a component of an Eldercare
Facility.  (Added by Ord. No. 178,063, Eff. 12/30/06.)



 



   SERVANTS QUARTERS.  An accessory building located on the same premises
with the main building, used solely as the dwelling of persons employed on
the premises, such quarters having no kitchen facilities and not rented or
otherwise used as a separate dwelling unit.  (Added by Ord. No. 107,884,
Eff. 9/23/56.)



 



   SHELTER FOR THE HOMELESS.  A facility operated by a "provider", other
than a "community care facility" as defined in California Health and Safety
Code Section 1502, which provides temporary accommodations to homeless
persons and/or families and which meets the standards for shelters contained
in Title 25, Division 1, Chapter 7 of the California Code of Regulations. 
The term "temporary accommodations" means that a homeless person or family
will be allowed to reside at the shelter for a time period not to exceed six
months.  For the purpose of this definition, a "provider" shall mean a
government agency, religious institution, non-profit charitable organization,
or private non-profit organization which provides, or contracts with
recognized community organizations to provide, emergency or temporary shelter
for the homeless, and which has been certified by the Housing and Community
Investment Department of the City of Los Angeles to meet all applicable
requirements contained in the California Health and Safety Code and the
California Code of Regulations.  (Amended by Ord. No. 184,836, Eff. 3/31/17.)



 



   SHOWCASE THEATER.  (Added by Ord. No. 148,910, Eff. 11/17/76.) A
theater which meets all of the following criteria:



 



   (1)   seats 90 persons or less;



 



   (2)   is nonprofit and tax-exempt;



 



   (3)   provides live entertainment; and



 



   (4)   employs fewer than five persons (exclusive of performers).



 



   SKILLED NURSING CARE HOUSING.  Residential housing that is licensed by
the California Department of Health and provides acute, intermediate, or
long-term skilled nursing care and consists only of guest rooms for its
residents.  Full time medical services may be provided on the premises.  It
may be a component of an Eldercare Facility.  (Added by Ord. No. 178,063,
Eff. 12/30/06.)



 



   SLOPE.  An inclined ground surface the inclination of which is
expressed as a ratio of horizontal distance to vertical distance (i.e. 2:1 or
1:1) or as a percentage (i.e. 50% or 100%).  (Added by Ord. No. 181,624,
Eff. 5/9/11.)



 



   SLOPE BAND.  The area of a property contained within a defined Slope
interval as identified in Section 12.21 C.10. of this Code and shown on a
Slope Analysis Map prepared by a licensed surveyor based on a survey of the
natural/existing topography.  Slope bands need not necessarily be located in
a contiguous manner and can be one or more areas as small or as large as they
exist on said property.  (Added by Ord. No. 181,624, Eff. 5/9/11.)



 



   SOLID WASTE ALTERNATIVE TECHNOLOGY PROCESSING FACILITY.  A facility
that has one or more technological systems which extracts, recovers or
generates usable materials and/or energy from solid waste, as defined in
Section 40191 of California Public Resources Code.  (Added by Ord. No.
181,272, Eff. 9/28/10.)



 



   SPECIFIC PLAN.  A specific plan is a definite statement adopted by
ordinance of policies, standards and regulations, together with a map or
description defining the locations where such policies, standards and
regulations are applicable.  (Added by Ord. No. 138,800, Eff. 6/13/69.)



 



   STABLE, PRIVATE.  A detached accessory building which has a roof and
may have one or more sides and is used in whole or in part for the housing or
shelter of an equine or equines owned by the occupants of the premises and
not kept for remuneration, hire or sale.  (Amended by Ord. No. 157,144, Eff.
11/22/82; Clarified by Ord. No. 157,219, Eff. 12/3/82.)



 



   STABLE, PUBLIC.  A stable other than a private stable.



 



   STANDARD HILLSIDE LIMITED STREET — a street (public or private) with
a minimum width of 36 feet and paved to a minimum roadway width of 28 feet,
as determined by the Bureau of Engineering.  (Amended by Ord No. 169,961,
Eff. 8/29/94.)



 



   STOCK COOPERATIVE.  The same as defined by Section 11003.2 of the
California Business and Professions Code.  (Added by Ord. No. 153,024, Eff.
1/10/79.)



 



   STORAGE BUILDING FOR HOUSEHOLD GOODS.  (Added by Ord. No. 173,979,
Eff. 6/29/01.)  A building that offers secure self-storage for household
goods in individual rooms, compartments, lockers or containers to which
clients bring goods for storage and retrieve them any time during normal
business hours without any assistance from the operator of the building. 
For purposes of this definition, storage of these goods may not be in
containers, such as boxes, barrels and/or drums set on pallets or racks, or
that require the use of forklifts or other similar mechanical equipment for
access or mobility.  A storage building for household goods does not include
the storage of commercial inventory to be sold, displayed, rented or
otherwise relocated for sale.



 



   STORY.  The space in a Building between two vertically adjacent
finished floor levels or, for the topmost level of a Building, the space
between its finished floor level and the roof directly above it.  Finished
floor levels within four vertical feet of each other shall be deemed a single
Story.  Any space that is defined as a Basement is not considered a Story. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 184,802, Eff. 3/17/17.)



 



   STORY, FIRST.  The lowest Story of a Building where the finished floor
level directly above the Story is more than six feet above grade for more
than 50 percent of the total perimeter of the Building or is more than 12
feet above grade at any point.  If no such Story exists, then the topmost
Story of a Building shall be deemed the First Story.  (Added by Ord. No.
184,802, Eff. 3/17/17.)



 



   STREET.  Any public thoroughfare other than an alley or walk, except
that in those cases where a subdivision has been recorded containing lots
which abut only on an alley or walk, said alley or walk may be considered to
be a street.



 



   STREET – COLLECTOR.  Any street designated as a collector street on
an adopted community plan element of the general plan. (Added by Ord. No.
150,799, Eff. 6/5/78.)



 



   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS.  Any change which would prolong the life of
the supporting members of a building or structure, such as bearing walls,
columns, beams or girders.



 



   STRUCTURE.  Anything constructed or erected which is supported
directly or indirectly on the earth, but not including any vehicle which
conforms to the California State Vehicle Act. (Amended by Ord. No. 107,884,
Eff. 9/23/56.)



 



   SUBSTANDARD HILLSIDE LIMITED STREET.  A Street which does not meet the
minimum requirements of a Standard Hillside Limited Street as defined in
Section 12.03 of this Code (public or private) with a width less than 36 feet
and paved to a roadway width of less than 28 feet, as determined by the
Bureau of Engineering.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,624, Eff. 5/9/11.)



 



   SUITE.  A group of habitable rooms designed as a unit, and occupied by
only one family, but not including a kitchen or other facilities for the
preparation of food, with entrances and exits which are common to all rooms
comprising the suite. (Added by Ord. No. 138,685, Eff. 7/10/69.)



 



   SUPPORTIVE HOUSING.  Housing with no limit on length of stay for
persons with low incomes who have one or more disabilities and may include,
among other populations, adults, emancipated minors, families with children,
elderly persons, young adults aging out of the foster care system,
individuals exiting from institutional settings, veterans, and homeless
people.  The housing is linked to onsite or offsite Supportive Services, and
any Floor Area used for the delivery of Supportive Services shall be
considered accessory to the residential use.  (Added by Ord. No. 185,489,
Eff. 4/20/18.)



 



   SUPPORTIVE SERVICES.  Services that are provided on a voluntary basis
to residents of Supportive Housing and Transitional Housing, including, but
not limited to, a combination of subsidized, permanent housing, intensive
case management, medical and mental health care, substance abuse treatment,
employment services, benefits advocacy, and other services or service
referrals necessary to obtain and maintain housing.  (Added by Ord. No.
185,489, Eff. 4/20/18.)



 



   TEMPORARY GEOLOGICAL EXPLORATORY CORE HOLE. A seismic test hole or
exploratory core hole used or intended to be used exclusively for
geophysical, geological, and other exploratory testing for oil, natural gas
or other hydrocarbon substances.  (Amended by Ord. No. 152,744, Eff.
9/10/79.)



 



   TENANT.  A person who rents, leases or sub-leases, through either a
written or oral agreement, residential real property from another. (Added by
Ord. No. 151,432, Eff. 10/12/78.)



 



   TENNIS OR PADDLE TENNIS COURT.  A game court designed for the purpose
of playing tennis, paddle tennis or similar game, utilizing a concrete slab
or other conventionally accepted hard playing surface, an enclosing fence and
frequently overhead lighting fixtures.  (Added by Ord. No. 151,466, Eff.
10/27/78.)



 



   TOWNHOUSE.  A dwelling unit, structurally separated from another
dwelling unit or other dwelling units in a building containing two or more
dwelling units, and complying with the provisions of Section 91.2305(k)(2) of
this Code, and which may be sold jointly with the lot upon which the dwelling
unit is situated. Provided, however, that common roofing, flashing, and
siding are permitted so as to enclose the airspace resulting from said
structural separation.  (Added by Ord. No. 141,474, Eff. 2/27/71.)



 



   TRAILER OR AUTOMOBILE TRAILER.  A vehicle without motive power,
designed to be drawn by a motor vehicle and to be used for human habitation
or for carrying persons and property, the terms “trailer” and
“automobile trailer” shall not include a mobilehome.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 161,716, Eff. 12/6/86.)



 



   TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURE.  A residential building
designed or used for one or more dwelling units or a combination of three or
more dwelling units and not more than five guest rooms or suites of rooms
wherein occupancy, by any person by reason of concession, permit, right of
access, license, or other agreement is for a period of 30 consecutive
calendar days or less, counting portions of calendar days as full days. 
(Added by Ord. No 167,689, Eff. 5/9/92.)



 



   TRANSITIONAL HOUSING.  A building where housing linked to Supportive
Services is offered, usually for a period of up to 24 months, to facilitate
movement to permanent housing for persons with low incomes who may have one
or more disabilities, and may include adults, emancipated minors, families
with children, elderly persons, young adults aging out of the foster care
system, individuals exiting from institutional settings, veterans, and
homeless people.  (Added by Ord. No. 185,489, Eff. 4/20/18.)



 



   TRASH CHUTE.  Any vertical smooth shaft used to convey rubbish, trash,
or garbage from the upper floors of a building to a trash storage bin or room
at the bottom end of the chute.  (Added by Ord. No. 181,227, Eff. 9/1/10.)



 



   TRUCK GARDENING.  The cultivation of berries, flowers, fruits, grains
herbs, mushrooms, nuts, ornamental plants, seedlings or vegetables for use
on-site or sale or distribution off-site.  (Added by Ord. No. 181,188, Eff.
7/18/10.)



 



   UNDERFLOOR SPACE.  A space between the ground and the floor directly
above.  (Added by Ord. No. 109,714, Eff. 8/26/57.)



 



   URBAN AGRICULTURE INCENTIVE ZONE.  (Added by Ord. No. 185,023, Eff.
8/6/17.)  Any land designated as being eligible for the Urban Agriculture
Incentive Zone Act, in accordance with California Government Code Sections
51040 - 51042 and County of Los Angeles Planning and Zoning Code Sections
22.52.3400, et seq., as may be amended from time to time, and as also shown
in the Department of City Planning's Urban Agriculture Incentive Zone Map,
dated August 2016, attached to Council File No. 14-1378.  The map is
maintained by the Department of City Planning as part of the Geographic
Information Systems database, and identifies all current farming and
gardening zones, which may be amended from time to time.



 



   The map shall be used by the Director of Planning, or his/her designee,
to determine eligibility for the City of Los Angeles' Urban Agriculture
Incentive Zone Program, as set forth in Los Angeles Administrative Code
Sections 19.170, et seq., based on the criteria outlined in California
Government Code Sections 51040 through 51042, the County of Los Angeles
Planning and Zoning Code Sections 22.52.3430 through 22.52.3450, as may be
amended from time to time.



 



   USE.  The purpose for which land or a building is arranged, designed
or intended or for which either land or a building is or may be occupied or
maintained.



 



   UTILITY RENTAL TRAILER.  Any non-passenger carrying, box- type open or
van designed to be towed by a passenger vehicle, not exceeding 3,500 pounds
gross vehicle weight (GVW), and not exceeding 96 inches in total width, nor
72 inches in box width, nor 14 feet in box length.  (Added by Ord. No.
148,857, Eff. 10/30/76.)



 



   VEHICLE, COMMERCIAL. Any vehicle, excluding Household Moving Rental
Trucks, and Utility Rental Trailers, which when operated upon a highway is
required to be registered as a commercial vehicle by the Vehicle Code of the
State of California or by any other jurisdiction and which is used or
maintained for the transportation of persons for hire, compensation, or
profit, or designed, used or maintained primarily for the transportation of
property. (Amended by Ord. No. 148,857, Eff. 10/30/76.)



 



   WINDROW COMPOSTING.  The process in which compostable material is
placed in elongated piles or windrows which are mechanically turned or
aerated to encourage decomposition and to reduce odors.  (Added by Ord. No.
170,054, 11/13/94.)



 



   WOOD WASTES.  Any untreated and/or unpainted wood material such as
pallets, plywood and other construction related scrap lumber, stumps and tree
trimming.  (Added by Ord. No. 170,054, 11/13/94.)



 



   YARD.  An open space other than a court, on a lot, unoccupied and
unobstructed from the ground upward, except as otherwise provided in this
article.



 



   YARD, FRONT.  A yard extending across the full width of a lot, the
depth of which is the minimum horizontal distance between the front lot line
and a line parallel thereto on the lot.



 



   YARD, REAR.  A yard extending across the full width of the lot, the
depth of which is the minimum horizontal distance between the rear lot line
and a line parallel thereto on the lot.  (Amended by Ord. No. 121,925, Eff.
6/4/62.)



 



   YARD, SIDE.  A yard more than six (6) inches in width between a main
building and the side lot line, extending from the front yard or the front
lot line where no front yard is required, to the rear yard. The width of the
required side yard shall be measured horizontally from the nearest point of
the side lot line toward the nearest part of the main building.



 



   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)
The Zoning Administrator shall mean the Chief Zoning Administrator or an
Associate Zoning Administrator.  The Director may appoint the Zoning
Administrator to act as the Director’s designee or as a Hearing Officer for
the Director.



 



 



SEC. 12.04.  ZONES - DISTRICTS - SYMBOLS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)



 



   A.   In order to regulate the use of property, as provided for in
this article, the City is divided into the following Zones:  (Amended by
Ord. No. 182,343, Eff. 1/23/13.)



 



   1.   OS Open Space Zone;



 



   2.   A1 Agricultural Zone;



 



   3.   A2 Agricultural Zone;



 



   4.   RA Suburban Zone;



 



   5.   RE Residential Zone;



 



   6.   RS Suburban Zone;



 



   7.   R1 One-Family Zone;



 



   8.   RU Residential Urban Zone;



 



   9.   RZ Residential Zero Side Yard Zone;



 



   10.   RW1 One-Family Residential Waterways Zone;



 



   11.   R2 Two-Family Zone;



 



   12.   RD Restricted Density Multiple Dwelling Zone;



 



   13.   RMP Mobile Home Park Zone;



 



   14.   RW2 Two-Family Residential Waterways Zone;



 



   15.   R3 Multiple Dwelling Zone;



 



   16.   RAS3 Residential/Accessory Services Zone;



 



   17.   R4 Multiple Dwelling Zone;



 



   18.   RAS4 Residential/Accessory Services Zone;



 



   19.   R5 Multiple Dwelling Zone;



 



   20.   P Automobile Parking Zone;



 



   21.   PB Parking Building Zone;



 



   22.   CR Limited Commercial Zone;



 



   23.   C1 Limited Commercial Zone;



 



   24.   C1.5 Limited Commercial Zone;



 



   25.   C2 Commercial Zone;



 



   26.   C4 Commercial Zone;



 



   27.   C5 Commercial Zone;



 



   28.   CM Commercial Manufacturing Zone;



 



   29.   MR1 Restricted Industrial Zone;



 



   30.   M1 Limited Industrial Zone;



 



   31.   MR2 Restricted Light Industrial Zone;



 



   32.   M2 Light Industrial Zone;



 



   33.   M3 Heavy Industrial Zone;



 



   34.   PF Public Facilities Zone; and



 



   35.   SL Ocean-Submerged Land Zone.



 



   The order of restrictiveness of these zones, the first being the most
restrictive and last being the least restrictive, is as follows:



 



   OS, A1, A2, RA, RE, RS, R1, RU, RZ, RW1, R2, RD, RMP, RW2, R3, RAS3,
R4, RAS4, R5, CR, C1, C1.5, C4, C2, C5, CM, MR1, M1, MR2, M2, M3 and PF.



 



   In addition, there shall be the following Specific Plan Zones:



 



   1.   CCS Century City South Studio Zone;



 



   2.   CM (GM) Commercial Manufacturing (Glencoe/Maxella) Zone;



 



   3.   CW Central City West Specific Plan Zone;



 



   4.   WC Warner Center Specific Plan Zone;



 



   5.   ADP Alameda District Specific Plan Zone;



 



   6.   LASED Los Angeles Sports and Entertainment District Specific
Plan Zone;



 



   7.   LAX Los Angeles International Airport Specific Plan Zone;



 



   8.   USC-1A University of Southern California University Park Campus
Specific Plan Subarea 1A Zone;



 



   9.   USC-1B University of Southern California University Park Campus
Specific Plan Subarea 1B Zone;



 



   10.   USC-2 University of Southern California University Park Campus
Specific Plan Subarea 2 Zone; and



 



   11.   USC-3 University of Southern California University Park
Campus  Specific Plan Subarea 3 Zone.



 



   12.   Ponte Vista at San Pedro Specific Plan Zone.  (Added by Ord.
No. 182,937, Eff. 4/21/14.)



 



   13.   EC Exposition Corridor Transit Neighborhood Plan (Specific
Plan) Zone.  (Added by Ord. No. 185,672, Eff. 12/26/19.)



 



   B.   The Zone symbols and the boundaries of these Zones are shown on
the "Zoning Map" made up of separate map sheets and made a part of Article 2,
Chapter 1 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.  The "Zoning Map" and all of
the notations, references, and other information, shown on the map are as
much a part of this article as if fully set forth here.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 176,343, Eff. 1/20/05.)



 



   C.   In order to more adequately regulate and restrict the height
and floor area of buildings and structures, each lot shall include a height
district designation, except for lots in the HI Hybrid Industrial Live/Work
Zone, where the height and floor area of buildings and structures shall be
regulated by Section 12.04.06*, and except for lots in the R1V, R1F, R1R
One-Family Variation Zones, where the height and Residential Floor Area of
buildings and structures shall be regulated by Sections 12.08 C.5.(b)-(d). 
Height district designations shall be numbered from 1 to 4, CRA 1 to 4, EZ 1
to 4 and CSA 1 to 4, and shall regulate the height or floor area of buildings
and structures as provided in Sections 12.21.1, 12.21.2, 12.21.3, 12.21.4 and
12.21.5.  The height districts and their boundaries are shown on the Zoning
Map by a combination of zone symbols and height district number markings,
e.g., R2-1, C2-2, M1-3, C1-CRA1, MS-EZ2, C2-CSA3, etc.  Where a lot is
located in more than one height district, the applicable zone symbol
designations shall be separated by a slash mark, e.g., R2-CRA/CSA,
C2-EZI/CRA2, etc.  The symbol "HD" preceding height district number
markings, when shown on the Zoning Map or used in a zoning ordinance, is an
abbreviation for the words "height district" and refers to height
districts.  The height districts for the "CW" Zone are the height districts
shown in Section 6 of the Central City West Specific Plan.  The height
districts for the "ADP" Zone are the height districts shown in Section 7 of
the Alameda District Specific Plan.  The height districts for the "LASED"
Zone are the height districts shown in Section 10 of the Los Angeles Sports
and Entertainment District Specific Plan.  The height districts for the
"USC-1A", "USC-1B", "USC-2" and "USC-3" Zones are the height districts shown
in Section 7 of the University of Southern California University Park Campus
Specific Plan.  The height districts for the "PVSP" Zone are the Subareas
shown in Section 5 of the Ponte Vista at San Pedro Specific Plan.  The
height districts for the "EC" Zone are the Subareas shown in Section 2 of the
Exposition Corridor Transit Neighborhood Plan (Specific Plan).  (Amended by
Ord. No. 185,672, Eff. 12/26/19.)



 



*Editor's note: The ordinance that added Sec. 12.04.06, Ord. No. 184.099, was
rescinded by Ord. No. 185,423.



 



   D.   Certain portions of the City are also designated as being in
one or more of the following districts, by the provision of Article 3 of this
chapter.  (Amended by Ord. No. 184,827, Eff. 3/24/17.)



 




   “O”   Oil Drilling District





   “S”   Animal Slaughtering





   “G”   Surface Mining District





   “RPD”   Residential Planned Development District





   “K”   Equinekeeping District





   “CA”   Commercial and Artcraft District





   “POD”   Pedestrian Oriented District





   “CDO”   Community Design Overlay District





   “MU”   Mixed Use District





   “FH”   Fence Height District





   “SN”   Sign District





   “RFA”   Residential Floor Area District





   “NSO”   Neighborhood Stabilization Overlay District





   “CPIO”   Community Plan Implementation Overlay District





   “HS”   Hillside Standards Overlay District





   "MPR"   Modified Parking Requirement District





   "RIO"   River Improvement Overlay District





   "CUGU"   Clean Up Green Up Overlay District





   "RG"   Rear Detached Garage District





   "HCR"   Hillside Construction Regulation District




 



   The “Zoning Map” is amended to indicate these districts and the
boundaries of each district.



 



   Land classified in an "O" Oil Drilling District, "S" Animal
Slaughtering District, "G" Surface Mining District, "RPD" Residential Planned
Development District, "K" Equinekeeping District, "CA" Commercial and
Artcraft District, "POD" Pedestrian Oriented District, "CDO" Community Design
Overlay District, "MU" Mixed Use District, "FH" Fence Height District, "SN"
Sign District, "RFA" Residential Floor Area District, "NSO" Neighborhood
Stabilization Overlay District, "CPIO" Community Plan Implementation Overlay
District, "RIO" River Improvement Overlay District, "CUGU" Clean Up Green Up
Overlay District, "RG" Rear Detached Garage District" or "HCR" Hillside
Construction Regulation District is also classified in one or more zones, and
land classified in the "P" Automobile Parking Zone may also be classified in
an "A" or "R" Zone.



 



   These classifications are indicated on the "Zoning Map" with a
combination of symbols, e.g., R2-2-O, C2-4-S, M1-3-G, M1-1-P and R2-O, C2-G,
etc., where height districts have not been established.



 



   E.   The boundaries of Redevelopment Project Areas, as
geographically defined in Section 12.21.3 and 11.5.14 and as specifically
designated on Map A; Enterprise Zones, as defined in Section 12.21.4 and as
specifically designated on Maps numbered 48 through 50; and Centers Study
Areas, as defined in Section 12.21.5, shall be shown on the "Zoning Map". 
(Amended by Ord. No. 186,325, Eff. 11/11/19.)



 



   F.   In order to provide a practicable method for the development of
land, the topography of which creates problems in development, to permit the
efficient design and use of building sites and local streets, and to secure
compliance with the General Plan in certain hillside or mountainous areas of
the City of Los Angeles, certain portions of the city classified in the RA
and RE Zones are also designated as being in an “H” Hillside or
Mountainous Area. The boundaries of said Hillside or Mountainous Areas are
shown by the use of the symbol “H” in conjunction with the applicable
Zone symbols on portions of the “Zoning Map.” (Amended by Ord. No.
141,821, Eff. 5/24/71.)



 



 



SEC. 12.04.01.  VIOLATIONS OF SPECIFIC PLANS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)



 



   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision of any
specific plan and every violation shall be punishable as a misdemeanor.



 



 



SEC. 12.04.05.  “OS” OPEN SPACE ZONE.



   (Added by Ord. No. 166,168, Eff. 10/3/90.)



 



   The following regulations shall apply in the “OS” Open Space Zone:



 



   A.   Purpose.  It is the purpose of the “OS” Open Space Zone to
provide regulations for publicly owned land in order to implement the
City’s adopted General Plan, including the recreation, parks and open space
designations in the City’s adopted district and community plans, and other
relevant elements, including the Open Space, Conservation and Public
Recreation Elements. Implementation of the General Plan will serve to protect
and preserve natural resources and natural features of the environment; to
provide outdoor recreation opportunities and advance the public health and
welfare; to enhance environmental quality; to encourage the management of
public lands in a manner which protects environmental characteristics; and to
encourage the maintenance of open pace uses on all publicly owned park and
recreation land, and open space public land which is essentially unimproved.



 



   B.   Use.  The following regulations hall apply to publicly owned
land classified in the “OS” Open Space Zone:  no building, structure or
land shall be used and no building or structure shall be erected, moved onto
the site, structurally altered, enlarged or maintained, except for the
following uses:



 



   1.   The following uses and activities when conducted in accordance
with the limitations hereafter specified.



 



   (a)   Types of Uses.



 



   (i)   Parks and recreation facilities, including: bicycle trails,
equestrian trails, walking trails, nature trails, park land/lawn areas,
childrens' play areas, child care facilities, picnic facilities, and athletic
fields (not to exceed 200 seats in park) used for park and recreation
purposes.  (Amended by Ord. No. 176,545, Eff. 5/2/05.)



 



   (ii)   Natural resource preserves for the managed production of
resources, including, but not limited to, forest lands, waterways and
watersheds used for commercial fisheries; agricultural lands used for food
and plant production; areas containing major mineral deposits (“G”
Surface Mining Districts) and other similar uses.



 



   (iii)   Marine and ecological preserves, sanctuaries and habitat
protection sites.



 



   (iv)   Sanitary landfill sites which have received certificates of
closure in compliance with federal and state regulations.



 



   (v)   Public water supply reservoirs (uncovered) and accessory uses
which are incidental to the operation and continued maintenance of such
reservoirs.



 



   (vi)   Water conservation areas, including percolation basins and
flood plain areas.



 



   (b)   Limitations:  (Amended by Ord. No. 169,013, Eff. 9/28/93.)



 



   (1)   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)  The use may
not be located on land which includes a lake, river, or stream or which is
designated by the City as an historic or cultural landmark, unless approved
as a conditional use pursuant to Section 12.24 U.19.



 



   (2)   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)  Any change of
use from a conditional use or deemed to be approved conditional use described
in Section 12.24 U.19. of this Code to any of the above uses shall require
conditional use approval pursuant to Section 12.24.



 



   2.   (Amended by Ord. No. 174,132, Eff. 9/3/01.)  Conditional uses
as allowed pursuant to Section 12.24 U.19. and Section 12.24 W.49. of this
Code when the location is approved pursuant to the provisions of the
applicable section.



 



 



SEC. 12.04.09.  “PF” PUBLIC FACILITIES ZONE.



   (Added by Ord. No. 166,972, Eff. 6/30/91.)



 



   The following regulations shall apply in the “PF” Public Facilities
Zone:



 



   A.   Purpose.  It is the purpose of the “PF” Public Facilities
Zone to provide regulations for the use and development of publicly owned
land in order to implement the City’s adopted General Plan, including, the
circulation and service systems designations in the City’s adopted district
and community plans, and other relevant General Plan elements, including the
circulation, public recreation and service systems elements.



 



   B.   Use.  The following regulations shall apply to publicly owned
land classified in the “PF” Public Facilities Zone. No building,
structure or land shall be used and no building or structure shall be
erected, moved onto a site, structurally altered, enlarged or maintained,
except for the following uses:



 



   1.   Farming and nurseries, under power transmission
rights-of-way.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,188, Eff. 7/18/10.)



 



   2.   Public parking facilities located under freeway rights-of-way.



 



   3.   Fire stations and police stations.



 



   4.   Government buildings, structures, offices and service
facilities including maintenance yards, provided, however, that those uses
identified in Section 12.24 U.21. shall require conditional use approval
pursuant to that section.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)



 



   5.   Public libraries not located inside public parks.



 



   6.   Post offices and related facilities.



 



   7.   Public health facilities, including clinics and hospitals.



 



   8.   Public elementary and secondary schools.



 



   9.   Any joint public and private development uses permitted in the
most restrictive adjoining zones if approved by the Director utilizing the
procedures described in Section 16.05 E. to H. The phrase “adjoining
zones” refers to the zones on properties abutting, across the street or
alley from or having a common corner with the subject property. If there are
two or more different adjoining zones, then only the uses permitted by the
most restrictive zone shall be permitted.



 



   10.   Conditional uses as allowed pursuant to Section 12.24 U.21.
and Section 12.24 W.49. of this Code when the location is approved pursuant
to the provisions of the applicable section.  (Amended by Ord. No. 174,132,
Eff. 9/3/01.)



 



   11.   Any joint public and private development that is a Qualified
Permanent Supportive Housing Project developed pursuant to Section 14.00
A.11. of this Code, utilizing the uses and standards permitted by the least
restrictive adjoining zone.  The phrase "adjoining zone" refers to the zone
on properties abutting, across the street or alley from, or having a common
corner with, the subject property.  (Added by Ord. No. 185,492, Eff.
5/28/18.)



 



 



SEC. 12.05.  “A1” AGRICULTURE ZONE.



 



   The following regulations shall apply in the “A1” Agriculture Zone.



 



   A.   Use.  No building, structure or land shall be used and no
building or structure shall be erected, structurally altered, enlarged or
maintained, except for the following uses, and when a “Supplemental Use
District” is created by the provisions of Article 3 of this chapter, for
such uses as may be permitted thereon.



 



   1.   One–Family dwellings.



 



   2.   (None).



 



   3.   (None).



 



   4.   Parks, playgrounds or community centers, owned and operated by
the government agency.



 



   5.   Golf courses, except driving tees or ranges, miniature and
pitch and putt courses having an average fairway length per hole of less than
125 yards, courses illuminated for nighttime play and similar uses operated
for commercial purposes.  (Amended by Ord. No. 123,664, Eff. 3/10/63.)



 



   6.   Farming, nurseries, aviaries, and apiaries.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 181,188, Eff. 7/18/10.)



 



   7.   (Amended by Ord. No. 158,126, Eff. 8/22/83.) The keeping of
equines, bovines, goats or other domestic livestock, and not to exceed five
swine, and the keeping of poultry, fowl, rabbits, fish or frogs, chinchillas
and other small animals in conjunction with the residential use of the lot,
provided:



 



   (a)   That these activities are not for commercial purposes, except
that a maximum of two currently licensed equines not owned by the resident of
the involved property may be boarded (for which monetary compensation may be
paid) or kept on that property as an accessory use, and except that chickens,
rabbits or chinchillas may be kept for commercial purposes on lots of five
acres or more.  (Amended by Ord. No. 161,352, Eff. 7/20/86.)



 



   (b)   The keeping of equines, bovines, goats or other domestic
livestock shall be permitted only on lots having an area of 17,500 square
feet or more. Where equines and/or bovines are being kept, the number kept
shall not exceed one equine or bovine for each 4,000 square feet of lot area.
(Amended by Ord. No. 159,341, Eff. 10/11/84.)



 



   8.   (None).



 



   9.   Any other similar uses or enterprises customarily carried on in
the field of general agriculture and not obnoxious or detrimental to the
public welfare.



 



   10.   Conditional uses enumerated in Sec. 12.24 when the location is
approved pursuant to the provisions of said section.  (Amended by Ord. No.
117,450, Eff. 12/18/60.)



 



   11.   Accessory buildings including a private garage, accessory
living quarters, servant’s quarters, recreation room, greenhouse,
lathhouse, stable, barn, corral, pen, coop, building or room for packing
products raised on the premises or other similar structure. Accessory living
quarters, servant’s quarters, recreation room and a private garage, or any
combination of such uses may be included in one building not exceeding two
stories in height. (Amended by Ord. No. 122,543, Eff. 9/2/62.)



 



   For location of accessory buildings, refer to Sec. 12.21C and Sec.
12.22C.



 



   12.   Accessory uses.  (Amended by Ord. No. 171,427, Eff. 1/4/97,
Oper. 3/5/97.)



 



   13.   One stand for the display and sale of only those products
produced upon the same premises, provided that the plan for the construction
of such stand is approved by the Department of Building and Safety; that it
does not exceed an area of two hundred (200) square feet; and that it is
located not nearer than ten (10) feet to any street or highway.



 



   14.   Name plates and signs as provided for in Sec. 12.21A7.



 



   15.   (Deleted by Ord. No. 171,687, Eff. 8/19/97.)



 



   16.   Home Occupations, subject to all of the following conditions
and standards:  (Added by Ord. No. 171,427, Eff. 1/4/97, Oper. 3/5/97.)



 



   (a)   Conditions and Standards.



 



   (1)   No changes are made which alter the residential character or
appearance of the dwelling unit or property in any manner which precludes its
residential use.  Activities associated with the home occupation may not be
visible from the outside of the dwelling unit, except for truck gardening. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 181,188, Eff. 7/18/10.)



 



   (2)   Notwithstanding Section 12.21 A 7 of this Code, signs and
window or outside displays in connection with the home occupation are
prohibited.



 



   (3)   The use shall be conducted within the main dwelling unit,
except for truck gardening, and only by persons residing within the dwelling
unit.  However, no more than one person not residing on the premises may be
employed to work on the premises as part of all of the home occupations. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 181,188, Eff. 7/18/10.)



 



   (4)   Parking provided for the building must continue to be
maintained pursuant to Section 12.21 A.4.(m) of this Code.



 



   (5)   Visitors’ parked cars shall not displace or impede the use
of required parking spaces.



 



   (6)   The home occupation shall not generate greater vehicular or
pedestrian traffic than is normal for the district in which the home
occupation is located.



 



   (7)   The use causes no public nuisance or disruption to the
residential character of the neighborhood.



 



   (8)   No more than one client visit or one client vehicle per hour
shall be permitted, and only from 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. for all of the home
occupations.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,188, Eff. 7/18/10.)



 



   (9)   The home occupation shall not involve the use of commercial
vehicles for delivery of materials to or from the premises other than a
vehicle not to exceed one ton capacity, owned by the operator of the home
occupation.  There shall be no parking or storing of commercial vehicles on
the site or on public streets in connection with the home occupation.  As
used herein, commercial vehicles are as defined in the California Vehicle
Code and, in addition, shall include construction equipment or any other
mobile paraphernalia used in connection with such use.  No person shall
store equipment including, but not limited to, trailers or trucks in excess
of one ton or wheeled construction equipment on property zoned for
residential purposes.



 



   (10)   Deliveries and pickups are limited to two per day for all of
the home occupations carried on in the dwelling, and only to services which
normally make deliveries to or pickups from households in residential areas.



 



   (11)   No material or mechanized equipment is utilized which is not
associated with normal residential use.



 



   (12)   Incidental storage related to the home occupations may be
located in the dwelling unit, but shall not be located in any open areas,
covered patios or carports.  However, an attached or detached garage,
provided the required covered parking spaces are maintained, or a detached,
fully enclosed accessory building may be used for incidental storage, but
such storage area shall not exceed 400 square feet.  (Amended by Ord. No.
171,696, Eff. 9/27/97.)



 



   (13)   Any advertising for the home occupation does not contain the
address of the dwelling unit.



 



   (14)   No excessive noise in violation of the provisions of Sections
111.00, 112.00 and 114.00 of this Code is caused by the use, nor any
excessive light, dust, fumes, vibration or electrical interference beyond
that normally expected for a residential use.



 



   (15)   No “extremely hazardous substances,” as listed in Section
355 (Appendix A) of Title 40 of the Code of Federal Regulations, are used,
sold or stored on the site; and no “hazardous materials,” as listed in
Article 9, Title 22 of the California Health and Safety Code, are utilized
except those associated with normal household use.



 



   (16)   No space or equipment used in the home occupation is rented
out to other parties not residing on the premises.



 



   (17)   Any “industrial homework” (as defined by the California
Labor Code) performed for an employer conforms to the provisions of Sections
2650 et seq. of the California Labor Code.



 



   (18)   The home occupation does not include any uses regulated under
Section 12.24 or 12.27 of this Code.



 



   (19)   No sales or exchange of products, processing, manufacturing,
display or servicing of any product is conducted on the premises, except for
handicrafts, or intellectual or artistic products, or direct sales, or sales
where the orders have been previously made by telephone, at a prior meeting
or a sales party, and in accordance with the other standards of operation. 
Nothing in this section shall be construed as to permit other retail or
wholesale sales in residential zones.  Nor shall anything in this section be
construed as allowing any type of on-site sales or distribution in connection
with truck gardening.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,188, Eff. 7/18/10.)



 



   (20)   A person wishing to conduct a home occupation must obtain a
City business license, if a license is required to perform the occupation,
from the Office of Finance.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00,
Oper. 7/1/00.)



 



   (21)   (Deleted by Ord. No. 172,170, Eff. 9/27/98.)



 



   Monies collected from registration fees and from any fines imposed for
violations of these provisions shall be deposited in the Home Occupation
Trust Fund established pursuant to Section 5.486 of the Los Angeles
Administrative Code.  The money in this account shall be used to offset the
costs by the Department of Building and Safety and the City Clerk’s Office
for administering the provisions of the home occupation ordinance.



 



   (b)   Prohibited Uses.  Any use which disrupts, and is inconsistent
with, the residential character of the neighborhood is prohibited.  The
following home occupations, including but not limited to other similar uses,
and uses as determined by the Zoning Administrator are prohibited:



 



   Adult entertainment



 



   Ambulance service



 



   Animal training



 



   Automotive repair, painting, body/fender work, upholstering, detailing,
washing, including motorcycles, trucks, trailers and boats.



 



   Beautician or barber



 



   Body piercing



 



   Dentist, except as a secondary office which is not used for the general
practice of dentistry, but may be used for consultation and emergency
treatment as an adjunct to a principal office located elsewhere.



 



   Funeral chapel or home



 



   Firearms manufacturing or sales



 



   Garment manufacturing



 



   Gunsmith



 



   Massage therapist, unless the therapist has procured a massage
technician’s license and a massage business license, as needed, from the
Los Angeles Police Department.



   Medical physician (non-psychiatric), except as a secondary office which
is not used for the general practice of medicine, but may be used for
consultation and emergency treatment as an adjunct to a principal office
located elsewhere.



 



   Photography lab, other than for occupant’s own use.



 



   Recording/motion picture/video production studios, except for editing
of pre- recorded material.



 



   Restaurant



 



   Retail sales



 



   Tattoo studio



 



   Tow truck service



 



   Upholstery



 



   Veterinary services and other uses which entail the harboring,
training, care, breeding, raising or grooming of dogs, cats, birds, or other
domestic animals on the premises, except those which are permitted by this
article (other than those owned by the resident)



 



   Welding or machine shop



 



   Yoga/spa retreat center



 



   (c)   Authority of The Director of Planning.  (Amended by Ord. No.
173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  Notwithstanding any other provisions
of this Code, the Director may require the discontinuance of a home
occupation if he or she finds that as operated or maintained there has been a
violation of any of the conditions or standards set forth in this section. 
The Director shall have the authority to prescribe additional conditions and
standards of operation for any category of home occupation which may require
additional conditions.



 



   (d)   Administrative Fines.  An administrative fine of $250.00 may
be collected by the Department of Building and Safety for any violation of
the conditions and standards of Section 12.05A 16 (a) and administrative
fines of $500.00 may be collected for repeated violations pursuant to the
following provisions.  These administrative fine provisions are in addition
to any other fines and penalties authorized by law.  It shall be unlawful to
conduct any home occupation as set forth in Section 12.05A16(b) of this Code.



 



   (1)   Definitions.  As used in this subparagraph the term
“Superintendent” means the Superintendent of the Department of Building
and Safety.  The term “Department” means the Department of Building and
Safety.



 



   (2)   Order to Comply.  For any home occupation found to be in
violation of Section 12.05A16(a) of this Code, the Superintendent shall send
an Order to Comply to the operator of the home occupation use.  The Order to
Comply shall clearly state the following:



 



   (i)   The violation must be corrected by a Compliance Date specified
in the Order, which date shall be no more than 15 days from the date the
Order is mailed.



 



   (ii)   Failure to correct the violation on or before the Compliance
Date may result in the imposition of an administrative fine in the amount of
$250.00.



 



   (3)   Reinspection.  The Superintendent shall reinspect a property
for which an Order to Comply was issued pursuant to this paragraph subsequent
to the Compliance Date.



 



   (4)   Failure to Correct Violation.  If any violation specified in
the Order to Comply is not corrected prior to the Compliance Date as
specified in the Order to Comply, an administrative fine of $250.00 may be
collected by the Department.



 



   If  the Department determines that a fine is due, then it shall notify
the person cited by United States mail in a sealed envelope, with postage
paid.  If the person cited is the owner of the property, the notice shall be
addressed to the last known address of the owner as that address appears in
the last equalized assessment roll. If the person to be cited is a tenant,
the notice shall be addressed to the location where the home occupation is
being conducted. Service of the notice shall be deemed to have been completed
at the time of deposit with the United States Postal Service.



 



   The person cited shall remit the fine to the Department within 30 days
after the date of mailing of the notice.  If the person cited fails to do
so, then the Department, by sending a second notification by certified mail,
may demand payment of the fine from the person cited and may prohibit the
issuance of any building permit, license or approval to the cited persons
until such fees are paid.



 



   (5)   Repeated Violations.  Notwithstanding any provision of this
subsection to the contrary, if an Order to Comply is issued for a violation
of Section 12.05A16, and after compliance with it a subsequent Order to
Comply is issued for a violation of the same section of this Code occurring
within one year of the date of the initial Order, an administrative fine of
$500.00 may be collected by the Department.



 



   (6)   Discontinuance of Use.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff.
7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  Three violations of any condition set forth in
Section 12.05 A.16.(a) of this Code which has resulted in an Order to Comply
being issued under Paragraph (d)(2) may result in the imposition of
proceedings to discontinue the home occupation use.  The Director shall have
jurisdiction to discontinue a home occupation use by giving notice to the
record owner of the home occupation by issuing A Notice of Intention to
Discontinue the Home Occupation (Notice).  The Notice shall provide an
opportunity for the home occupation user to either



 



   (a)   submit information to the Director by a date certain to show
cause why the home occupation should not be discontinued or



 



   (b)   appear at a time and place before the Director pursuant to the
procedures prescribed in Section 12.24 of the Code to show cause why the use
should not be discontinued.



 



   Upon the expiration of the time periods set forth in the Notice, the
Director may discontinue the home occupation use.



 



   (e)   Truck Gardening.  Truck gardening shall be subject to the
provisions of this subdivision if the main use of the lot is a dwelling. 
(Added by Ord. No. 181,188, Eff. 7/18/10.)



 



   B.   Restriction.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)  For any lot designated as Public, Quasi-Public,
Public/Quasi-Public Use, Other Public, or Open Space on the land use map of
the applicable community or district plan; any lot shown on the map as having
existing lakes, waterways, reservoirs, debris basins, or similar facilities;
any lot shown on the map as the location of a freeway right-of-way; and any
property annexed to the City of Los Angeles where a plan amendment was not
adopted as part of the annexation proceedings:



 



   Any of the uses permitted by Subsection A of this section shall require
prior approval in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.24.1 of this
Code.



 



   C.   Area.  No building or structure nor the enlargement of any
building or structure shall be hereafter erected or maintained unless the
following yards and lot areas are provided and maintained in connection with
such building, structure or enlargement.



 



   1.   Front Yard.  There shall be a front yard of not less than
twenty (20) per cent of the depth of the lot, but such front yard need not
exceed twenty–five (25) feet.



 



   2.   Side Yards.  There shall be a side yard on each side of a main
building of not less than ten (10) percent of the width of the lot, but such
side yard need not exceed twenty–five (25) feet and shall not be less than
three (3) feet in width.



 



   3.   Rear Yard.  There shall be a rear yard of not less than
twenty–five (25) per cent of the depth of the lot, but such rear yard need
not exceed twenty–five (25) feet.



 



   4.   Lot Area. (Amended by Ord. No. 150,624, Eff. 4/13/78.) Every
lot farm or other parcel of land shall have a minimum average width of 300
feet and a minimum area of five acres for all uses permitted in this section,
except that:



 



   (a)   The lot area for goat or cattle dairies shall not be less than
20 acres.



 



   (b)   The lot area per dwelling unit shall be not less than two and
one-half acres, but in no case shall more than two dwellings be permitted on
any one lot.



 



   In no case shall a farm or other parcel of land be reduced to less than
five acres. Provided, that where a lot has less width or less area than
herein required and was held under separate ownership or was of record at the
time this article became effective, such lot may be occupied by any use
permitted in this section, except for those uses as set forth in Subdivision
5 of Subsection A of this section.



 



   Exceptions to area regulations are provided for in Section 12.22C.



 



 



SEC. 12.06.  “A2” AGRICULTURAL ZONE.



 



   The following regulations apply in the “A2” Agricultural Zone:



 



   A.   Use.  No building, structure or land shall be used and no
building or structure shall be erected, structurally altered, enlarged, or
maintained, except for the following uses, and, when a “Supplemental Use
District” is created by the provisions of Article 3 of this chapter, for
such uses as may be permitted therein.



   1.   Any use permitted in the “A1” Zone, provided that all such
uses, except those specified in Paragraph 2 below, shall conform to all the
regulations of said Zone.



 



   2.   Any of the following uses, which need conform only to the
regulations of this section:



 



   (a)   One–family dwellings.



 



   (b)   (None)



 



   (c)   (None)



 



   (d)   Parks, playgrounds or community centers, owned and operated by
a governmental agency.



 



   (e)   Golf courses, except driving tees or ranges, miniature and
pitch and putt courses having an average fairway length per hole of less than
125 yards, courses illuminated for nighttime play and similar uses operated
for commercial purposes. (Amended by Ord. No. 123,664, Eff. 3/10/63.)



 



   (f)   Farming, nurseries, aviaries, and apiaries.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 181,188, Eff. 7/18/10.)



 



   (g)   (Amended by Ord. No. 158,156, Eff. 8/22/83.) The keeping of
equines, bovines, goats or other domestic livestock (other than swine),
poultry, fowl, rabbits, fish or frogs, chinchillas and other small animals,
in conjunction with the residential use of the lot provided:



 



   (1)   That these activities are not for commercial purposes, except
that a maximum of two currently licensed equines not owned by the resident of
the involved property may be boarded (for which monetary compensation may be
paid) or kept on the property as an accessory use, and except that chickens,
rabbits and chinchillas may be kept for commercial purposes on lots of five
acres or more. (Amended by Ord. No. 161,352, Eff. 7/20/86.)



 



   (2)   The keeping of equines, bovines, goats or other domestic
livestock (other than swine) shall be permitted only on lots having an area
of 17,500 square feet or more. Where equines and/or bovines are being kept,
the number kept shall not exceed one equine or bovine for each 4,000 square
feet of lot area. (Amended by Ord. No. 159,341, Eff. 10/11/84.)



 



   (h)   (Amended by Ord. No. 122,543, Eff. 9/2/62.)  Accessory
buildings, including a private garage, accessory living quarters, servant’s
quarters, recreation room, greenhouse, lathhouse, stable, barn, corral, pen,
coop, building or room for packing products raised on the premises or other
similar structure. Accessory living quarters, servant’s quarters,
recreation room and private garage, or any combination of such uses may be
included in one building not exceeding two stories in height.



 



   For location of accessory buildings, refer to Sec. 12.21C and Sec.
12.22C.



 



   (i)   Accessory uses and home occupations, subject to the conditions
specified in Section 12.05 A 16 of this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 171,427,
Eff. 1/4/97, Oper. 3/5/97.)



 



   (j)   Name plates and signs as provided for in Sec. 12.21A7.



 



   B.   Restriction.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)  For any lot designated as Public, Quasi-Public,
Public/Quasi-Public Use, Other Public, or Open Space on the land use map of
the applicable community or district plan; any lot shown on the map as having
existing lakes, waterways, reservoirs, debris basins, or similar facilities;
any lot shown on the map as the location of a freeway right-of-way; and any
property annexed to the City of Los Angeles where a plan amendment was not
adopted as part of the annexation proceedings:



 



   Any of the uses permitted by Subsection A of this section shall require
prior approval in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.24.1 of this
Code.



 



   C.   Area.  No building or structure nor the enlargement of any
building or structure shall be hereafter erected or maintained unless the
following yards and lot areas are provided and maintained in connection with
such building, structure or enlargement:



 



   1.   Yards – Front, side and rear, same as required in “A1”
Zone — Sec. 12.05C.



 



   2.   Lot Area (Amended by Ord. No. 123,664, Eff. 3/10/63.)  Every
lot, farm or other parcel of land shall have a minimum average width of 150
feet and a minimum area of two acres for all uses permitted in this section,
except as otherwise required in Subsection A of this section. The lot area
per dwelling unit shall not be less than one acre, and in no case shall more
than two dwellings be permitted on any one lot.



 



   In no case shall a farm or other parcel of land be reduced to less than
two acres. Provided, that where a lot has less width or less area than herein
required and was held under separate ownership or was of record at the time
this article became effective, such lot may be occupied by any use permitted
in this section, except for those uses requiring five or 20 acres, as set
forth in Subsection A of this section.



 



   Exceptions to area regulations are provided for in Section 12.22C.



 



 



SEC. 12.07.  “RA” SUBURBAN ZONE.



 



   The following regulations shall apply to the “RA” Suburban Zone:



 



   A.   Use.  No building, structure or land shall be used and no
building or structure shall be erected, structurally altered, enlarged or
maintained except for the following uses, and when a “Supplemental Use
District” is created by the provisions of Article 3 of this chapter, for
such uses as may be permitted therein:



 



   1.   One–family dwellings.



 



   2.   (Deleted by Ord. No. 171,687, Eff. 8/19/97.)



 



   3.   (None)



 



   4.   Parks, playgrounds or community centers, owned and operated by
a government agency.



 



   5.   Golf courses, except driving tees or ranges, miniature and
pitch and putt courses having an average fairway length per hole of less than
125 yards, courses illuminated for nighttime play and similar uses operated
for commercial purposes. (Amended by Ord. No. 123,664, Eff. 3/10/63.)



 



   6.   Truck gardening and nurseries.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,188,
Eff. 7/18/10.)



 



   7.   (Amended by Ord. No. 159,341, Eff. 10/11/84.)  The keeping of
equines, bovines, goats or other domestic livestock other than swine),
poultry, fowl, rabbits, chinchillas and other small animals, in conjunction
with the residential use of the lot, provided:



 



   (a)   That these activities are not for commercial purposes, except
that a maximum of two currently licensed equines not owned by the resident of
the involved property may be boarded (for which monetary compensation may be
paid) or kept on that property as an accessory use. (Amended by Ord. No.
161,352, Eff. 7/20/86.)



 



   (b)   The keeping of equines, bovines, goats or other domestic
livestock (other than swine) shall be permitted only on lots having an area
of 17,500 square feet or more; provided, however, that such keeping of
domestic livestock shall also be permitted on lots which were of record as of
November 19, 1966 and qualified for the minimum lot area requirement of
17,500 square feet by including the area of one-half of the abutting streets.
Where equines and/or bovines are being kept, the number shall not exceed one
equine or bovine for each 4,000 square feet of lot area.



 



   8.   Two-family dwellings, on lots having a side lot line adjoining
a lot in a commercial or industrial Zone, provided that:  (Amended by Ord.
No. 126,309, Eff. 2/13/64.)



 



   (a)   The lot on which the dwelling is located does not extend more
than 100 feet from the boundary of the less restricted Zone which it adjoins;



 



   (b)   There is a minimum lot area of 20,000 square feet for each two
family dwelling.



 



   9.   (None).



 



   10.   Conditional uses enumerated in Sec. 12.24 when the location is
approved pursuant to the provisions of said section.  (Amended by Ord. No.
117,450, Eff. 12/18/60.)



 



   11.   Accessory buildings, including private garages, accessory
living quarters, servants quarters, recreation rooms, greenhouses,
bathhouses, or private stables, provided that:



 



   (a)   An accessory living quarters, servants quarters, recreation
room or a private garage or any combination of said uses may be included in
one building not exceeding two stories in height.



 



   (b)   No stable is located or maintained on a lot having an area of
less than 17,500 square feet and its capacity does not exceed one equine for
each 4,000 square feet of lot area. (Amended by Ord. No. 157,144, Eff.
11/22/82.)



 



   (c)   Automobile parking space is required in connection with
permitted uses and additional space may be provided in accordance with the
provisions of Section 12.21A.



 



   For the location of accessory buildings, refer to Sec. 12.21C and Sec.
12.22C.  (Amended by Ord. No. 107,884, Eff. 9/23/56.)



 



   12.   Accessory uses and home occupations, subject to the conditions
specified in Section 12.05 A 16 of this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 171,427,
Eff. 1/4/97, Oper. 3/5/97.)



 



   13.   Backyard beekeeping, as an accessory use, provided that: 
(Added by Ord. No. 183,920, Eff. 12/6/15.)



 



   (a)   The person who is the owner of or in possession of an apiary
is registered as a beekeeper with the County of Los Angeles Agricultural
Commission.



 



   (b)   The number of hives is limited to one for every 2,500 square
feet of lot area.



 



   (c)   Hives are not located in the required front yard of a lot,
including through lots.



 



   (d)   Hives are located a minimum of five feet from the front, side,
and rear lot lines and a minimum of 20 feet from public rights-of-way or
private streets.



 



   (e)   Hive entrances face away from, or parallel to, the nearest lot
line adjacent to another lot.



 



   (f)   A six-foot wall, fence, or hedge is located between hives and
adjacent lots, or hives are placed at a minimum of eight feet above ground
level of the adjacent lot.  The purpose of this provision is to provide a
solid barrier to help direct bees over six feet above ground level when
departing the lot to minimize interactions between bees and individuals in
the vicinity.



 



   (g)   A water source for bees shall be provided at all times on the
property where the bees are kept to discourage bee visitation at swimming
pools, hose bibs and other water sources on adjacent public or surrounding
property.



 



   14.   Names, plates and signs as provided for in Sec. 12.21 A.7.



 



   B.   Restriction.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)  For any lot designated as Public, Quasi-Public,
Public/Quasi-Public Use, Other Public, or Open Space on the land use map of
the applicable community or district plan; any lot shown on the map as having
existing lakes, waterways, reservoirs, debris basins, or similar facilities;
any lot shown on the map as the location of a freeway right-of-way; and any
property annexed to the City of Los Angeles where a plan amendment was not
adopted as part of the annexation proceedings:



 



   Any of the uses permitted by Subsection A of this section shall require
prior approval in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.24.1 of this
Code.



 



   C.   Area (Development Standards).  (First Para. Amended by Ord.
No. 179,883, Eff. 6/29/08.)  No building or structure nor the enlargement of
any building or structure shall be erected or maintained unless the following
yards, lot areas, and floor area limitations are provided and maintained in
connection with the building, structure, or enlargement:



 



   1.   Front Yard.  There shall be a front yard of not less than 20%
of the depth of the lot, but such front yard need not exceed 25 feet,
provided, however, that where all of the developed lots which have front
yards that vary in depth by not more than ten feet comprise 40% or more of
the frontage, the minimum front yard depth shall be the average depth of the
front yards of such lots. Where there are two or more possible combinations
of developed lots comprising 40% or more of the frontage, each of which has
front yards that vary in depth of not more than ten feet, the minimum front
yard depth shall be the average depth of the front yards of that combination
which has the shallowest average depth. In determining the required front
yard, buildings located on key lots, entirely on the rear half of lots, or on
lots in the “C” or “M” Zones, shall not be counted, provided,
however, that nothing contained in this paragraph shall be deemed to require
front yards which exceed 40 feet in depth. (Amended by Ord. No. 139,155, Eff.
10/16/69.)



 



   On key lots the minimum front yard may be the average of the required
front yard for the adjoining interior lot and the required side yard along
the street side of a reversed corner lot, but such minimum front yard may
apply for a distance of not more than 100 feet from the rear lot line of the
reversed corner lot, beyond which point the front line specified in the above
paragraph shall apply. Where existing buildings on either or both of said
adjoining lots are located nearer to the front or side lot lines than the
yards required by this article, the yards established by such existing
buildings may be used in computing the required front yard for a key lot.



 



   2.   Side Yards.  (Amended by Ord. No. 169,775, Eff. 6/2/94.)



 



   (a)   There shall be a side yard on each side of a main building of
not less than ten feet, except that where the lot is less than 70 feet in
width, and was of record prior to July 1, 1966, the side yard may be reduced
to ten percent of the width of the lot, but in no event less than three
feet.  Provided, however, that where a side yard of less than ten feet in
width is permitted pursuant to the foregoing provisions, and the building
erected on the lot is three or more stories in height, one foot shall be
added to such side yard.



 



   (b)   In lieu of the additional one foot side yard for buildings of
three or more stories specified above, for new construction of a main
building or ground floor addition to the main building on a lot not located
in a Hillside Area or a Coastal Zone, one foot shall be added to each
required side yard for each increment of ten feet or fraction thereof of
height above the first 18 feet of height of the main building.



 



   (c)   Side yard requirements in specific plans, Historic Overlay
Zones or in subdivision approvals shall take precedence over requirements in
this subsection.  This subsection shall apply in these areas, however, where
there are no side yard requirements provided in the specific plan, Historic
Overlay Zone or in the subdivision approval.



 



   3.   Rear Yard.  There shall be a rear yard of not less than
twenty–five (25) per cent of the depth of the lot, but such rear yard need
not exceed twenty–five (25) feet.



 



   4.   Lot Area.  Every lot shall have a minimum width of 70 feet and
a minimum area of 17,500 square feet. The minimum lot area per dwelling unit
shall be 17,500 square feet except for a two–family dwelling on lots having
a side lot adjoining a lot in a commercial or industrial Zone as provided for
in Subsection A of this section.  (Amended by Ord No. 133,218, Eff.
11/19/66.)



 



   Provided, however, that on property located within the RA Zone and also
within the “H” Hillside or Mountainous Area for which a Master Plan
including dwelling unit densities has been adopted by the Council, the number
of lots may be limited and the maximum areas may be increased so that the
number of dwelling units permitted will not substantially exceed the
densities shown on the Plan.  (Amended by Ord. No. 129,693, Eff. 5/2/65.)



 



   There may be lots with less than the minimum width and area, as
provided by Section 17.05 H. of this Code, and there may be a single dwelling
on each lot if the lot is shown with a separate letter or lot number on a
recorded Subdivision Tract Map or Parcel Map.  (Amended by Ord. No. 130,871,
Eff. 9/20/65.)



 



   Exceptions to area regulations are provided for in Sec. 12.22 C. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 129,673, Eff. 5/2/65.)



 



   5.   Maximum Residential Floor Area.  (Amended by Ord. No. 184,802,
Eff. 3/17/17.)  For a lot located in a Hillside Area or Coastal Zone, the
maximum Residential Floor Area shall comply with Section 12.21.1 A.1. of this
Code.



 



   For all other lots, the maximum Residential Floor Area contained in all
buildings and accessory buildings shall not exceed 25 percent of the lot area
when the lot is less than 20,000 square feet.  For lots 20,000 square feet
or greater, the maximum Residential Floor Area shall not exceed 20 percent of
the lot area, or 5,000 square feet, whichever is greater.



 



   An additional 20 percent of the maximum Residential Floor Area for that
lot shall be allowed if any of the methods listed below are utilized.  Only
one 20 percent bonus per property is allowed.



 



   (a)   The total Residential Floor Area of each story other than the
base floor in a multi-story building does not exceed 75 percent of the base
floor area; or



 



   (b)   The cumulative length of the exterior walls facing the front
lot line, equal to a minimum of 25 percent of the building width, shall be
stepped-back a distance of at least 20 percent of the building depth from a
plane parallel to the lot width established at the point of the building
closest to the front lot line.  When the front lot line is not straight, a
line connecting the points where the side lot lines and the front lot line
intersect shall be used.  When through-lots have two front yards, the
step-back shall be provided along both front lot lines.



 



   For the purposes of this provision, all exterior walls that intersect a
plane parallel to the front lot line at 45 degrees or less shall be
considered to be facing the front lot line.  The building width shall be the
greatest distance between the exterior walls of the building measured
parallel to the lot width.  The building depth shall be the greatest
distance between the exterior walls of the building measured parallel to the
lot depth.



 



   6.   Verification of Existing Residential Floor Area.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 184,802, Eff. 3/17/17.)  For additions with cumulative Residential
Floor Area of less than 1,000 square feet constructed after January 1, 2008,
or remodels of buildings built prior to January 1, 2008, the existing
Residential Floor Area shall be determined based on the building records or
the building square footage shown on the most recent Los Angeles County Tax
Assessor's records at the time the plans are submitted to the Department of
Building and Safety and a plan check fee is paid.  Except that Residential
Floor Area may be calculated as defined in Section 12.03 of this Code when a
complete set of fully dimensioned plans with area calculations of all the
structures on the lot, prepared by a licensed architect or engineer, is
submitted by the applicant.



 



   Any work that does not qualify as a remodel, as defined in the
paragraph below, or additions that are 1,000 square feet or larger shall
require a complete set of fully dimensioned plans with area calculations of
all the structures on the lot prepared by a licensed architect or engineer.



 



   For the purposes of implementing this subdivision, a remodel shall mean
the alteration of an existing building or structure provided that at least 50
percent of the perimeter length of the contiguous exterior walls and 50
percent of the roof are retained.



 



 



SEC. 12.07.01.  “RE” RESIDENTIAL ESTATE ZONE.



 



   The following regulations shall apply to the “RE” Residential
Estate Zone:



 



   A.   Use. No building, structure or land shall be used and no
building or structure shall be erected, structurally altered, enlarged, or
maintained except for the following uses, and when a “Supplemental Use
District” is created by the provisions of Article 3 of this chapter, for
such uses as may be permitted therein:



 



   1.   One–family dwellings.



 



   2.   Parks, playgrounds or community centers, owned and operated by
a government agency.



 



   3.   (Amended by Ord. No. 181,188, Eff. 7/18/10.)  Truck gardening;
the keeping of equines, poultry, rabbits and chinchillas in conjunction with
the residential use of the lot, provided that:



 



   (a)   Such animal keeping is not for commercial purposes.



 



   (b)   The keeping of equines shall be permitted only on lots having
an area of 17,500 square feet or more.  Where equines are being kept, the
number of such animals being kept shall not exceed one for each 4,000 square
feet of lot area.



 



   4.   Two–family dwellings on lots having a side lot adjoining a
lot in a commercial or industrial Zone, provided that: (Amended by Ord. No.
126,309, Eff. 2/13/64.)



 



   (a)   The lot on which the dwelling is located does not extend more
than 85 feet from the boundary of the less restricted Zone which it adjoins;



 



   (b)   The area of the lot on which the dwelling is located is not
less than the minimum specified in Subdivision 4 of Subsection C of this
section.  (Amended by Ord. No. 127,777, Eff. 8/1/64.)



 



   5.   (Deleted by Ord. No. 171,687, Eff. 8/19/97.)



 



   6.   Accessory buildings, including private garages, accessory
living quarters, servant’s quarters, recreation rooms, or private stables
provided that:



 



   (a)   No accessory living quarters or servant’s quarters are
located or maintained on a lot having an area of less than 20,000 square feet.



 



   (b)   No stable is located or maintained on a lot having an area of
less than 20,000 square feet and its capacity does not exceed one equine for
each 5,000 square feet of lot area. (Amended by Ord. No. 157,144, Eff.
11/22/82.)



 



   (c)   An accessory living quarters, servant’s quarters, recreation
room or private garage or any combination of said uses may be included in one
building, not exceeding two stories in height. (Amended by Ord. No. 108,661,
Eff. 2/11/57.)



 



   (d)   Automobile parking space is required in connection with
permitted uses and additional spaces may be provided in accordance with the
provisions of Section 12.21A.



 



   For location of accessory buildings, refer to Sec. 12.21C and Sec.
12.22C. (Amended by Ord. No. 107,884, Eff. 9/23/56.)



 



   7.   Conditional uses enumerated in Sec. 12.24 when the location is
approved pursuant to the provisions of said section.  (Amended by Ord. No.
117.450, Eff. 12/18/60.)



 



   8.   Accessory uses and home occupations, subject to the conditions
specified in Section 12.05 A 16 of this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 171,427,
Eff. 1/4/97, Oper. 3/5/97.)



 



   9.   Name plates and signs as provided for in Section 12.21 A of
this Code.  (Added by Ord. No. 171,427, Eff. 1/4/97, Oper. 3/5/97.)



 



   10.   Backyard beekeeping, as an accessory use, provided that the
activity complies with the performance standards established in Section 12.07
A.13. of this Code.  (Added by Ord. No. 183,920, Eff. 12/6/15.)



 



   B.   Restriction.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)  For any lot designated as Public, Quasi-Public,
Public/Quasi-Public Use, Other Public, or Open Space on the land use map of
the applicable community or district plan; any lot shown on the map as having
existing lakes, waterways, reservoirs, debris basins, or similar facilities;
any lot shown on the map as the location of a freeway right-of-way; and any
property annexed to the City of Los Angeles where a plan amendment was not
adopted as part of the annexation proceedings:



 



   Any of the uses permitted by Subsection A of this section shall require
prior approval in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.24.1 of this
Code.



 



   C.   Area (Development Standards).  (First Para. Amended by Ord.
No. 179,883, Eff. 6/29/08.)  No building or structure nor the enlargement of
any building or structure shall be erected or maintained unless the following
yards, lot areas, and floor area limitations are provided and maintained in
connection with the building, structure, or enlargement:



 



   1.   Front Yard.  There shall be a front yard of not less than 20%
of the depth of the lot, but such front yard need not exceed 25 feet;
provided, however, that where all of the developed lots which have front
yards that vary in depth by not more than ten feet comprise 40% or more of
the frontage, the minimum front yard depth shall be the average depth of the
front yards of each such lot. Where there are two or more possible
combinations of developed lots comprising 40% or more of the frontage, each
of which has front yards that vary in depth by not more than ten feet, the
minimum front yard depth shall be the average depth of the front yards of
that combination which has the shallowest average depth. In determining the
required front yard buildings located on key lots, entirely on the rear half
of lots, or on lots in the “C” or “M” Zones, shall not be counted,
provided, however, that nothing contained in this paragraph shall be deemed
to require front yards which exceed 40 feet in depth. (Amended by Ord. No.
139,155, Eff. 10/16/69.)



 



   On key lots the minimum front yard may be the average of the required
front yard for the adjoining interior lot and the required side yard along
the street side of a reversed corner lot, but such minimum front yard may
apply for a distance of not more than 85 feet from the rear lot line of the
reversed corner lot, beyond which point the front yard specified in the above
paragraph shall apply. Where existing buildings on either or both of said
adjoining lots are located nearer to the front or side lot lines than the
yard required by this article, the yards established by such existing
buildings may be used in computing the required front yard for a key lot.



 



   2.   Side Yards.  (Amended by Ord. No. 169,775, Eff. 6/2/94.)



 



   (a)   RE9, RE11, RE15 Zones.  On a lot in the RE9 or RE11 Zone,
there shall be a side yard on each side of a main building of not less than
five feet, except that, where the lot is less than 50 feet in width, the side
yard may be reduced to ten percent of the width of the lot, but in no event
less than three feet.  On a lot designated RE15, there shall be a side yard
on each side of a main building of not less than ten percent of the lot
width, but in no event less than five feet, however, the side yard need not
exceed ten feet.



 



   Notwithstanding the above paragraph, on a lot in the RE9 or RE11 Zone
which is not located in a Hillside Area or Coastal Zone, there shall be a
side yard on each side of a main building of not less than seven feet, except
that where the lot is less than 70 feet in width, the side yard may be
reduced to ten percent of the width of the lot, but in no event to less than
three feet.



 



   (b)   RE20, and RE40 Zones.  On a lot in the RE20 or RE40 Zone,
there shall be a side yard of not less than ten feet on each side of a main
building.



 



   (c)   For a building more than two-stories in height, one-foot shall
be added to the width of each required side yard for each additional story
above the second story.



 



   In lieu of the additional side yard requirement in the above paragraph,
for new construction of a main building or a ground floor addition to the
main building on a lot in the RE9, RE11, RE15, or RE20 Zone which is not
located in a Hillside Area or Coastal Zone, if the main building exceeds 18
feet in height, then one-foot shall be added to the width of each required
side yard for each increment of ten feet or fraction thereof above the first
18 feet of height of the main building.



 



   (d)   Side yard requirements in specific plans, Historic
Preservation Overlay Zones or in subdivision approvals shall take precedence
over this subdivision.  This subdivision shall apply in these areas,
however, when there are no such side yard requirements.



 



   3.   Rear Yard.  There shall be a rear yard of not less than 25% of
the depth of the lot, but such rear yard need not exceed 25 feet.



 



   4.   Lot Area.  Every lot classified in the RE Zone is, according
to the lot area requirements, further designated as RE9, RE11, RE15, RE20 or
RE40. Where the Zoning Map shows only the designation RE, the land shall be
considered as being classified as RE11, and the Zoning Map, heretofore made a
part of Section 12.04 of this Code, is hereby amended to indicate said
designation without additional procedure. (Amended by Ord. No. 137,892, Eff.
2/7/69.)



 



   Every lot shall have a minimum width and area as follows:



 




[LOT SIZE “RE” ZONE]





(Amended by Ord No. 137,892, Eff. 2/7/69.)




 



 

[Zone]
 
Minimum Lot Width
 
Minimum Lot Area


RE9
 
65 feet
 
9,000 square feet


RE11
 
70 feet
 
11,000 square feet


RE15
 
80 feet
 
15,000 square feet


RE20
 
80 feet
 
20,000 square feet


RE40
 
80 feet
 
40,000 square feet



 



   The minimum lot area per dwelling unit shall be the same as the minimum
lot area, except for two–family dwellings on lots having a side lot line
adjoining a lot in a commercial or industrial Zone as provided for in
Subsection A of this section.



 



   Provided, however, that on the property located within the RE Zone and
also within an “H” Hillside or Mountainous Area for which a General Plan
including dwelling unit densities has been adopted by the Council, the number
of lots may be limited and the minimum area may be increased so that the
number of dwelling units permitted will not substantially exceed the
densities shown on the plan. (Amended by Ord. No. 141,821, Eff. 5/24/71.)



 



   There may be lots with less than the minimum width and area, as
provided by Section 17.05 H. of this Code, and there may be a single-family
dwelling on each such lot if the lot is shown with a separate letter or lot
number on a recorded Subdivision Tract Map or a Parcel Map. (Amended by Ord.
No. 130,871, Eff. 9/20/65.)



 



   Exceptions to area regulations are provided for in Sec. 12.22 C.



 



   5.   Maximum Residential Floor Area.  (Amended by Ord. No. 184,802,
Eff. 3/17/17.)  For a lot located in a Hillside Area or Coastal Zone, the
maximum Residential Floor Area shall comply with Section 12.21.1 A.1. of this
Code.



 



   For all other lots, the maximum Residential Floor Area contained in all
buildings and accessory buildings shall be as follows: In the RE9 and RE11
Zones, the maximum Residential Floor Area shall be 40 percent of the lot area
when the lot is less than 15,000 square feet. For lots 15,000 square feet or
greater in the RE9 and RE11 Zones, the maximum Residential Floor Area shall
be 35 percent of the lot area or 6,000 square feet, whichever is greater. For
lots in the RE15, RE20 and RE40 Zones, the maximum Residential Floor Area
shall be 35 percent of the lot area.



 



   An additional 20 percent of the maximum Residential Floor Area for that
lot shall be allowed if any of the methods listed below are utilized.  Only
one 20 percent bonus per property is allowed.



 



   (a)   The total Residential Floor Area of each story other than the
base floor in a multi-story building does not exceed 75 percent of the base
floor area; or



 



   (b)   The cumulative length of the exterior walls facing the front
lot line, equal to a minimum of 25 percent of the building width shall be
stepped-back a distance of at least 20 percent of the building depth from a
plane parallel to the lot width established at the point of the building
closest to the front lot line.  When the front lot line is not straight, a
line connecting the points where the side lot lines and the front lot line
intersect shall be used.  When through-lots have two front yards, the
step-back shall be provided along both front lot lines.



 



   For the purposes of this provision, all exterior walls that intersect a
plane parallel to the front lot line at 45 degrees or less shall be
considered to be facing the front lot line.  The building width shall be the
greatest distance between the exterior walls of the building measured
parallel to the lot width.  The building depth shall be the greatest
distance between the exterior walls of the building measured parallel to the
lot depth.



 



   6.   Verification of Existing Residential Floor Area.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 184,802, Eff. 3/17/17.)  For additions with cumulative Residential
Floor Area of less than 1,000 square feet constructed after January 1, 2008,
or remodels of buildings built prior to January 1, 2008, the existing
Residential Floor Area shall be determined based on the building records or
the building square footage shown on the most recent Los Angeles County Tax
Assessor's records at the time the plans are submitted to the Department of
Building and Safety and a plan check fee is paid.  Except that Residential
Floor Area may be calculated as defined in Section 12.03 of this Code when a
complete set of fully dimensioned plans with area calculations of all the
structures on the lot, prepared by a licensed architect or engineer, is
submitted by the applicant.



 



   Any work that does not qualify as a remodel, as defined in the
paragraph below, or additions that are 1,000 square feet or larger shall
require a complete set of fully dimensioned plans with area calculations of
all the structures on the lot prepared by a licensed architect or engineer.



 



   For the purposes of implementing this subdivision, a remodel shall mean
the alteration of an existing building or structure provided that at least 50
percent of the perimeter length of the contiguous exterior walls and 50
percent of the roof are retained.



 



 



SEC. 12.07.1.  “RS” SUBURBAN ZONE.



 



   The following regulations shall apply in the “RS” Suburban Zone:



 



   A.   Use — No building, structure or land shall be used and no
building or structure shall be erected, structurally altered, enlarged, or
maintained, except for the following uses, and when a “Supplemental Use
District” is created by the provisions of Article 3 of this chapter, for
such uses as may be permitted therein:



 



   1.   One-family dwellings.



 



   2.   Parks, playgrounds or community centers, owned and operated by
a governmental agency.



 



   3.   (Amended by Ord. No. 181,188, Eff. 7/18/10.)  Truck gardening;
the keeping of equines, poultry, rabbits and chinchillas in conjunction with
the residential use of the lot, provided that:



 



   (a)   Such animal keeping is not for commercial purposes.



 



   (b)   The keeping of equines shall be permitted only on lots having
an area of 20,000 square feet or more. Where equines are being kept, the
number of such animals being kept shall not exceed one for each 5,000 square
feet of lot area.



 



   4.   Two-family dwellings on lots having a side lot line adjoining a
lot in a commercial or industrial Zone, provided that:  (Amended by Ord. No.
126,309, Eff. 2/13/64.)



 



   (a)   The lot on which the dwelling is located does not extend more
than 75 feet from the boundary of the less restricted Zone which it adjoins;



 



   (b)   There is a minimum lot area of 7,500 square feet for each
two–family dwelling.



 



   5.   (Deleted by Ord. No. 171,687, Eff. 8/19/97.)



 



   6.   Accessory buildings, including private garages, accessory
living quarters, servant’s quarters, recreation rooms, or private stables,
provided that:



 



   (a)   No accessory living quarters nor servant’s quarters are
located or maintained on a lot having an area of less than 15,000 square feet;



 



   (b)   No stable is located or maintained on a lot having an area of
less than 20,000 square feet and its capacity does not exceed one equine or
each 5,000 square feet of lot area. (Amended by Ord. No. 157,144, Eff.
11/22/82.)



 



   (c)   An accessory living quarters, servant’s quarters, recreation
room or private garage or any combination of said uses may be included within
one building not exceeding two stories in height.



 



   (d)   Automobile parking space is required in connection with
permitted uses and additional space may be provided in accordance with the
provisions of Sec. 12.21 A.



 



   For the location of accessory buildings, refer to Sec. 12.21 C. and
Sec. 12.22 C.  (Amended by Ord. No. 107,884, Eff. 9/23/56.)



 



   7.   Conditional uses enumerated in Sec. 12.24 when the location is
approved pursuant to the provisions of said section.  (Amended by Ord. No.
117,450, Eff. 12/18/60.)



 



   8.   Accessory uses and home occupations, subject to the conditions
specified in Section 12.05 A.16. of this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No.
171,427, Eff. 1/4/97, Oper. 3/5/97.)



 



   9.   Name plates and signs as provided for in Section 12.21 A. of
this Code.  (Added by Ord. No. 171,427, Eff. 1/4/97, Oper. 3/5/97.)



 



   10.   Backyard beekeeping, as an accessory use, provided that the
activity complies with the performance standards established in Section 12.07
A.13. of this Code.  (Added by Ord. No. 183,920, Eff. 12/6/15.)



 



   B.   Restriction.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)  For any lot designated as Public, Quasi-Public,
Public/Quasi-Public Use, Other Public, or Open Space on the land use map of
the applicable community or district plan; any lot shown on the map as having
existing lakes, waterways, reservoirs, debris basins, or similar facilities;
any lot shown on the map as the location of a freeway right-of-way; and any
property annexed to the City of Los Angeles where a plan amendment was not
adopted as part of the annexation proceedings:



 



   Any of the uses permitted by Subsection A of this section shall require
prior approval in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.24.1 of this
Code.



 



   C.   Area (Development Standards).  (First Para. Amended by Ord.
No. 179,883, Eff. 6/29/08.)  No building or structure nor the enlargement of
any building or structure shall be erected or maintained unless the following
yards, lot areas, and floor area limitations are provided and maintained in
connection with the building, structure, or enlargement:



 



   1.   Front Yard. There shall be a front yard or not less than 20% of
the depth of the lot, but such front yard need not exceed 25 feet provided,
however, that where all of the developed lots which have front yards that
vary in depth by not more than 10 feet comprise 40% or more of the frontage,
the minimum front yard depth shall be the average depth of the front yards of
such lots. Where there are two or more possible combinations of developed
lots comprising 40% or more of the frontage each of which has front yards
that vary in depth by not more than ten feet, the minimum front yard depth
shall be the average depth of the front yards of that combination which has
the shallowest average depth. In determining the required front yard,
buildings located on key lots, entirely on the rear half of lots, or on lots
in the “C” or “M” Zones, shall not be counted, provided, however,
that nothing contained in this paragraph shall be deemed to require front
yards which exceed 40 feet in depth. (Amended by Ord. No. 139,155, Eff.
10/16/69.)



 



   On key lots the minimum front yard may be the average of the required
front yard for the adjoining interior lot and the required side yard along
the street side of a reversed corner lot, but such minimum front yard may
apply for a distance or not more than 85 feet from the rear lot line of the
reversed corner lot, beyond which point the front yard specified in the above
paragraph shall apply. Where existing buildings on either or both of said
adjoining lots are located nearer to the front or side lot lines than the
yard required by this article, the yards established by such existing
buildings may be used in computing the required front yard for a key lot.



 



   2.   Side Yards.  (Amended by Ord. No. 169,775, Eff. 6/2/94.)



 



   (a)   For a main building not more than two-stories in height, there
shall be a side yard on each side of the building of not less than five feet,
except that where the lot is less than 50 feet in width, the side yard may be
reduced to ten percent of the width of the lot, but in no event to less than
three feet in width.  For a building more than two-stories in height,
one-foot shall be added to the width of each yard for each additional story
above the second story.



 



   (b)   In lieu of the additional one-foot side yard for each story
above the second story as required above, for new construction of a main
building or a ground floor addition to the main building on a lot not located
in a Hillside Area or Coastal Zone, one-foot shall be added to each required
side yard for each increment of ten feet or fraction thereof above the first
18 feet.



 



   (c)   Side yard requirements in specific plans, Historic
Preservation Overlay Zones or in subdivision approvals shall take precedence
over this subdivision.  This subdivision shall apply in these areas,
however, when there are no such side yard requirements.



 



   3.   Rear Yard.  There shall be a rear yard of not less than 20
feet in depth. (Amended by Ord. No. 121,925, Eff. 6/4/62.)



 



   4.   Lot Area.  (Amended by Ord. No. 153,478, Eff. 4/12/80.) 
Every lot shall have a minimum width of 60 feet and a minimum area of 7,500
square feet. The minimum lot area per dwelling unit shall also be 7,500
square feet, except for two–family dwellings on lots having a side lot line
adjoining a lot in a commercial or industrial Zone as provided for in
Subsection A. of this section.



 



   Provided, however, that on property located within the “RS” Zone
and also within a “H” Hillside or Mountainous Area for which a General
Plan including dwelling unit densities has been adopted by the City Council,
the number of lots may be limited and the minimum required areas may be
increased so that the number of dwelling units permitted will not
substantially exceed the densities shown on the Plan.



 



   There may be lots with less than the minimum required width and area,
as provided by Section 17.05 H. of this Code, and there may be a
single–family dwelling on each such lot if the lot is shown with a separate
letter or lot number on a recorded Subdivision Tract Map or Parcel Map.



 



   Further exceptions to area regulations are provided for in Section
12.22 C.



 



   5.   Maximum Residential Floor Area.  (Amended by Ord. No. 184,802,
Eff. 3/17/17.)  For a lot located in a Hillside Area or Coastal Zone, the
maximum floor area shall comply with Section 12.21.1 A.1. of this Code.



 



   For all other lots, the maximum Residential Floor Area contained in all
buildings and accessory buildings shall not exceed 45 percent of the lot area
when the lot is less than 9,000 square feet.  For Lots 9,000 square feet or
greater, the Residential Floor Area shall not exceed 40 percent of the lot
area or 4,050 square feet, whichever is greater.



 



   An additional 20 percent of the maximum Residential Floor Area for that
lot shall be allowed if any of the methods listed below are utilized.  Only
one 20 percent bonus per property is allowed.



 



   (a)   The total Residential Floor Area of each story other than the
base floor in a multi-story building does not exceed 75 percent of the base
floor area; or



 



   (b)   The cumulative length of the exterior walls facing the front
lot line, equal to a minimum of 25 percent of the building width shall be
stepped-back a distance of at least 20 percent of the building depth from a
plane parallel to the lot width established at the point of the building
closest to the front lot line.  When the front lot line is not straight, a
line connecting the points where the side lot lines and the front lot line
intersect shall be used.  When through-lots have two front yards, the
step-back shall be provided along both front lot lines.



 



   For the purposes of this provision, all exterior walls that intersect a
plane parallel to the front lot line at 45 degrees or less shall be
considered to be facing the front lot line.  The building width shall be the
greatest distance between the exterior walls of the building measured
parallel to the lot width.  The building depth shall be the greatest
distance between the exterior walls of the building measured parallel to the
lot depth.



 



   6.   Verification of Existing Residential Floor Area.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 184,802, Eff. 3/17/17.)  For additions with cumulative Residential
Floor Area of less than 1,000 square feet constructed after January 1, 2008,
or remodels of buildings built prior to January 1, 2008, the existing
Residential Floor Area shall be determined based on the building records or
the building square footage shown on the most recent Los Angeles County Tax
Assessor's records at the time the plans are submitted to the Department of
Building and Safety and a plan check fee is paid.  Except that Residential
Floor Area may be calculated as defined in Section 12.03 of this Code when a
complete set of fully dimensioned plans with area calculations of all the
structures on the lot, prepared by a licensed architect or engineer, is
submitted by the applicant.



 



   Any work that does not qualify as a remodel, as defined in the
paragraph below, or additions that are 1,000 square feet or larger shall
require a complete set of fully dimensioned plans with area calculations of
all the structures on the lot prepared by a licensed architect or engineer.



 



   For the purposes of implementing this subdivision, a remodel shall mean
the alteration of an existing building or structure provided that at least 50
percent of the perimeter length of the contiguous exterior walls and 50
percent of the roof are retained.



 



 



SEC. 12.08.  “R1” ONE-FAMILY ZONE.



 



   The following regulations shall apply in the “R1” One-Family Zone:



 



   A.   Use.  No building, structure or land shall be used and no
building or structure shall be erected, structurally altered, enlarged or
maintained except for the following uses, and when a “Supplemental Use
District” is created by the provisions of Article 3 of this chapter, for
such uses as may be permitted therein:



 



   1.   One-family dwelling.



 



   2.   Parks, playgrounds or community centers, owned and operated by
a governmental agency.



 



   3.   (Amended by Ord. No. 181,188, Eff. 7/18/10.)  Truck gardening;
the keeping of equines, poultry, rabbits and chinchillas in conjunction with
the residential use of the lot, provided that:



 



   (a)   Such animal keeping is not for commercial purposes.



 



   (b)   The keeping of equines shall be permitted only on lots having
an area of 20,000 square feet or more. Where equines are being kept, the
number of such animals being kept shall not exceed one for each 5,000 square
feet of lot area.



 



   4.   Two-family dwellings on lots having a side lot line adjoining a
lot in a commercial or industrial zone, provided that:  (Amended by Ord. No.
171,427, Eff. 1/4/97, Oper. 3/5/97.)



 



   (a)   The lot on which the use is located does not extend more than
65 feet from the boundary of the less restrictive zone which it adjoins; and



 



   (b)   There is a minimum lot area of 5,000 square feet for each
two-family dwelling.



 



   5.   (Deleted by Ord. No. 171,687, Eff. 8/19/97.)



 



   6.   Conditional uses enumerated in Sec. 12.24 when the location is
approved pursuant to the provisions of said section.  (Amended by Ord. No.
117,450, Eff. 12/18/60.)



 



   7.   Accessory buildings, including private garages, accessory
living quarters, servant’s quarters, recreation rooms, or private stables,
provided that:



 



   (a)   No accessory living quarters nor servant’s quarters are
located or maintained on a lot having an area less than 10,000 square feet;



 



   (b)   No stable is located or maintained on a lot having an area of
less than 20,000 square feet and its capacity does not exceed one equine for
each 5,000 square feet of lot area.  (Amended by Ord. No. 157,144, Eff.
11/22/82.)



 



   (c)   An accessory living quarters, servant’s quarters, recreation
room or private garage or any combination of said uses may be included in one
building not exceeding two stories in height;



 



   (d)   Automobile parking space is required in connection with
permitted uses and additional space may be provided in accordance with the
provisions of Sec. 12.21 A.



 



   For the location of accessory buildings, refer to Sec. 12.21 C. and
Sec. 12.22 C.  (Amended by Ord. No. 107,884, Eff. 9/23/56.)



 



   8.   Accessory uses and home occupations, subject to the conditions
specified in Section 12.05 A.16. of this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No.
171,427, Eff. 1/4/97, Oper. 3/5/97.)



 



   9.   Name plates and signs as provided for in Sec. 12.21 A.7.



 



   10.   Backyard beekeeping, as an accessory use, provided that the
activity complies with the performance standards established in Section 12.07
A.13. of this Code.  (Added by Ord. No. 183,920, Eff. 12/6/15.)



 



   B.   Restriction.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)  For any lot designated as Public, Quasi-Public,
Public/Quasi-Public Use, Other Public, or Open Space on the land use map of
the applicable community or district plan; any lot shown on the map as having
existing lakes, waterways, reservoirs, debris basins, or similar facilities;
any lot shown on the map as the location of a freeway right-of-way; and any
property annexed to the City of Los Angeles where a plan amendment was not
adopted as part of the annexation proceedings:



 



   Any of the uses permitted by Subsection A of this section shall require
prior approval in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.24.1 of this
Code.



 



   C.   Area (Development Standards).  (First Para. Amended by Ord.
No. 179,883, Eff. 6/29/08.)  No building or structure nor the enlargement of
any building or structure shall be erected or maintained unless the following
yards, lot areas, and floor area limitations are provided and maintained in
connection with the building, structure, or enlargement:



 



   1.   Front Yard.  There shall be a front yard of not less than 20%
of the depth of the lot, but such front yard need not exceed 20 feet;
provided, however that where all of the developed lots which have front yards
that vary in depth by not more than ten feet comprise 40% or more of the
frontage, the minimum front yard shall be the average depth of the front yard
of such lots. Where there are two or more possible combinations of developed
lots comprising 40% or more of the frontage, each of which as front yards
that vary in depth by not more than ten feet, the minimum front yard depth
shall be the average depth of the front yards of that combination which has
the shallowest average depth. In determining the required front yard,
buildings located on key lots, entirely on the rear half of lots, or on lots
in the “C” or “M” Zones, shall not be counted; provided, however,
that nothing contained in this paragraph shall be deemed to require front
yards which exceed 40 feet in depth.  (Amended by Ord. No. 139,155, Eff.
10/16/69.)



 



   On key lots the minimum front yard may be the average of the required
front yard for the adjoining interior lot and the required side yard along
the street side of a reversed corner lot, but such minimum front yard may
apply for a distance of not more than 65 feet from the rear lot line of the
reversed corner lot, beyond which point the front yard specified in the above
paragraph shall apply. Where existing buildings on either or both of said
adjoining lots are located nearer to the front or side lot lines than the
yards required by this article, the yards established by such existing
buildings may be used in computing the required front yard for a key lot.



 



   2.   Side Yards.  (Amended by Ord. No. 184,802, Eff. 3/17/17.)



 



   (a)   For a main building not more than two stories in height, there
shall be a side yard on each side of the building of not less than 5 feet,
except that where the lot is less than 50 feet in width, the side yard may be
reduced to 10 percent of the width of the lot, but in no event to less than 3
feet in width.  For a building more than two stories in height, 1 foot shall
be added to the width of each yard for each additional story above the second
story.



 



   All portions of a building that have a side wall exceeding 14 feet in
height and a continuous length greater than 45 feet shall have an
offset/plane break that is a minimum depth of five feet beyond the required
yard and a minimum length of 10 feet.  For the purpose of this Subdivision,
height shall be measured from the existing or finished grade, whichever is
lower, at each point along the perimeter of the building.



 









 




Figure 12.08 C.2.(a): Plane break diagram.




 



   (b)   In lieu of the additional one-foot side yard for each story
above the second story as required above, for new construction of a main
building or a ground floor addition to the main building on a lot not located
in a Hillside Area or Coastal Zone, one-foot shall be added to each required
side yard for each increment of ten feet or fraction thereof above the first
18 feet.



 



   (c)   Side yard requirements in specific plans, Historic
Preservation Overlay Zones or in subdivision approvals shall take precedence
over this subdivision.  This subdivision shall apply in these areas,
however, when there are no such side yard requirements.



 



   (d)   Any occupied rooftop deck shall be set back at least three
feet from the minimum required side yard.  This provision shall not apply to
any rooftop deck located on the street side of a Corner Lot.



 



   3.   Rear Yard.  There shall be a rear yard of not less than 15
feet in depth.  (Amended by Ord. No. 121,925, Eff. 6/4/62.)



 



   4.   Lot Area. (Amended by Ord. No. 153,478, Eff. 4/12/80.).  Every
lot shall have a minimum width of 50 feet and a minimum area of 5,000 square
feet. The minimum lot area per dwelling unit shall also be 5,000 square feet,
except for two–family dwellings on lots having a side lot line adjoining a
lot in a commercial or industrial zone as provided for in Subsection A of
this section.



 



   There may be lots with less than the minimum required area and there
may be a single dwelling on each such lot if the lot is shown with a separate
letter or lot number on a recorded Subdivision Tract Map or a Parcel Map.



 



   There may be lots with less than the minimum width and area as provided
for in Section 17.05 H.7. Further exceptions to area regulations are provided
for in Section 12.22 C.



 



   5.   Maximum Residential Floor Area and Massing.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 184,802, Eff. 3/17/17.)



 



   (a)   R1.  For a lot located in a Hillside Area or Coastal Zone,
the maximum floor area shall comply with Section 12.21.1 A.1. of this Code.



 



   For lots outside of a Hillside Area or Coastal Zone, the maximum
Residential Floor Area contained in all buildings and accessory buildings
shall not exceed 45 percent of the lot area (a Residential Floor Area ratio
of 0.45).



 



   The encroachment plane shall originate from a point that is 20 feet in
height from the existing or finished grade, whichever is lower, along the
required front and side yard setbacks.



 



   (b)   R1V, Variable-Mass.  These zones are intended to address
issues of neighborhood character and to facilitate the compatibility of new
construction, additions, and alterations in single-family neighborhoods
having an existing variety of building forms.  The intent of this variation
is to allow flexibility in the location of massing within a maximum building
envelope that respects the scale of other houses in the vicinity.



 



   The maximum Residential Floor Area contained in all buildings on a lot
shall not exceed the specified Residential Floor Area ratio for the
corresponding zone per size of the lot as listed in Table 12.08 C.5.(b). 
The maximum lot coverage, maximum Height of Building, and maximum height at
which the encroachment plane begins shall not exceed the amounts specified
for each zone in Table 12.08 C.5.(b).



 



 




Table 12.08 C.5.(b)
R1 VARIABLE-MASS VARIATION ZONES DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS









Lot Size and Residential Floor Area Ratio

 

R1V1

 

R1V2

 

R1V3

 

R1V4

 

Max Lot Coverage




 
Up to 6,000 SF
 

.65

 

.55

 

.45

 

.40

 

50%




 
6,001 to 7,000 SF
 

.63

 

.53

 

.43

 

.38

 

48%




 
7,001 to 8,000 SF
 

.61

 

.51

 

.41

 

.36

 

46%




 
8,001 to 9,000 SF
 

.59

 

.49

 

.39

 

.34

 

44%




 
9,001 to 10,000 SF
 

.57

 

.47

 

.37

 

.32

 

42%




 
Over 10,000 SF
 

.55

 

.45

 

.35

 

.30

 

40%



Mass



(A)

 

Height of Building (max)

 

30'

 

30'

 

28'

 

20'

 






(B)

 

Encroachment Plane Origin Height

 

22'

 

22'

 

20'

 

14'

 






 

Angle of Encroachment Plane

 

45°

 

45°

 

45°

 

45°

 







 



   (c)   R1F, Front-Mass.  These zones are intended to address issues
of neighborhood character and to facilitate the compatibility of new
construction, additions and alterations in single-family neighborhoods where
the predominate building form includes a two-story mass at the front of the
lot and a one-story mass at the rear of the lot.  The intent of this
variation is to allow taller massing at the front of the lot and mandate
shorter massing at the rear of the lot that respects the scale and form of
other houses in the vicinity.



 



   The maximum Residential Floor Area contained in all buildings shall not
exceed the specified Residential Floor Area ratio for the corresponding zone
per size of the lot as listed in Table 12.08 C.5.(c).  The maximum lot
coverage, the maximum height of the front and rear masses, and the maximum
height at which the encroachment plane begins for the front and rear masses
shall not exceed the amounts specified for each zone in Table 12.08 C.5.(c).



 



 




Table 12.08 C.5.(c)
R1 FRONT-MASS VARIATION ZONES DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS









Lot Size and Residential Floor Area Ratio

 

R1F1

 

R1F2

 

R1F3

 

R1F4

 

Max Lot Coverage




 
Up to 6,000 SF
 

.65

 

.55

 

.45

 

.40

 

50%




 
6,001 to 7,000 SF
 

.63

 

.53

 

.43

 

.38

 

48%




 
7,001 to 8,000 SF
 

.61

 

.51

 

.41

 

.36

 

46%




 
8,001 to 9,000 SF
 

.59

 

.49

 

.39

 

.34

 

44%




 
9,001 to 10,000 SF
 

.57

 

.47

 

.37

 

.32

 

42%




 
Over 10,000 SF
 

.55

 

.45

 

.35

 

.30

 

40%



Front Mass



(A)

 

Front envelope depth, from front yard setback (min)

 

–

 

–

 

–

 

–

 






(B)

 

Height of Mass (max)

 

30'

 

30'

 

28'

 

26'

 






(C)

 

Encroachment Plane Origin Height

 

22'

 

22'

 

20'

 

18'

 






 

Angle of Encroachment Plane

 

45°

 

45°

 

45°

 

45°

 





Rear Mass



(D)

 

Rear envelope depth, from rear yard setback (min)

 

25'

 

25'

 

25'

 

25'

 






(E)

 

Height of Mass (max)

 

24'

 

24'

 

20'

 

18'

 






(F)

 

Encroachment Plane Origin Height

 

16'

 

16'

 

14'

 

14'

 






 

Angle of Encroachment Plane

 

45°

 

45°

 

45°

 

45°

 







 



   (d)   R1R, Rear-Mass.  These zones are intended to address issues
of neighborhood character and to facilitate the compatibility of new
construction, additions and alterations in single-family neighborhoods where
the predominate building form includes a one-story mass at the front of the
lot and a two-story mass at the rear of the lot.  The intent of this
variation is to mandate shorter massing at the front of the lot and allow
taller massing at the rear of the lot that respects the scale and form of
other houses in the vicinity.



 



   The maximum Residential Floor Area contained in all buildings shall not
exceed the specified Residential Floor Area ratio for the corresponding zone
per size of the lot as listed in Table 12.08 C.5.(d).  The maximum lot
coverage, the maximum height of the front and rear masses, and the maximum
height at which the encroachment plane begins for the front and rear masses
shall not exceed the amounts specified for each zone in Table 12.08 C.5.(d).



 



   (1)   Exceptions.



 



   (i)   Lots that are 90 feet or less in depth shall not be subject to
two different massing requirements.  Said lots shall be exempt from the
Front Mass development standards listed in Table 12.08 C.5.(d), and instead
the Rear Mass massing requirements specified in Table 12.08 C.5.(d) shall
apply to the entire building.



 



 




Table 12.08 C.5.(d)
R1 REAR-MASS VARIATION ZONES DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS









Lot Size and Residential Floor Area Ratio

 

R1R1

 

R1R2

 

R1R3

 

R1R4

 

Max Lot Coverage




 
Up to 6,000 SF
 

.65

 

.55

 

.45

 

.40

 

50%




 
6,001 to 7,000 SF
 

.63

 

.53

 

.43

 

.38

 

48%




 
7,001 to 8,000 SF
 

.61

 

.51

 

.41

 

.36

 

46%




 
8,001 to 9,000 SF
 

.59

 

.49

 

.39

 

.34

 

44%




 
9,001 to 10,000 SF
 

.57

 

.47

 

.37

 

.32

 

42%




 
Over 10,000 SF
 

.55

 

.45

 

.35

 

.30

 

40%



Front Mass



(A)

 

Front envelope depth, from front yard setback (min)

 

30'

 

30'

 

30'

 

30'

 






(B)

 

Height of Mass (max)

 

24'

 

24'

 

20'

 

18'

 






(C)

 

Encroachment Plane Origin Height

 

16'

 

16'

 

12'

 

12'

 






 

Angle of Encroachment Plane

 

45°

 

45°

 

45°

 

45°

 





Rear Mass



(D)

 

Rear envelope depth, from rear yard setback (min)

 

–

 

–

 

–

 

–

 






(E)

 

Height of Mass (max)

 

30'

 

30'

 

28'

 

26'

 






(F)

 

Encroachment Plane Origin Height

 

22'

 

22'

 

20'

 

18'

 






 

Angle of Encroachment Plane

 

45°

 

45°

 

45°

 

45°

 







 



   (e)   R1H, Hillside Area.  These zones are intended to address
issues of neighborhood character and to facilitate the compatibility of new
construction, additions and alterations to one-family houses in Hillside
Areas having an existing variety of building forms.  The intent of this
variation is to allow flexibility in the location of massing within a maximum
building envelope that respects the scale of other houses in the vicinity. 
A lot designated an R1H Zone shall comply with all of the R1 Hillside Area
Development Standards pursuant to Section 12.21 C.10., except that R1H lots
shall be subject to the Residential Floor Area ratios in Table 12.21 C.10-2b
of their corresponding zone.



 



   6.   Verification of Existing Residential Floor Area.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 184,802, Eff. 3/17/17.)  For additions with cumulative Residential
Floor Area of less than 1,000 square feet constructed after January 1, 2008,
or remodels of buildings built prior to January 1, 2008, the existing
Residential Floor Area shall be determined based on the building records or
the building square footage shown on the most recent Los Angeles County Tax
Assessor's records at the time the plans are submitted to the Department of
Building and Safety and a plan check fee is paid.  Except that Residential
Floor Area may be calculated as defined in Section 12.03 of this Code when a
complete set of fully dimensioned plans with area calculations of all the
structures on the lot, prepared by a licensed architect or engineer, is
submitted by the applicant.



 



   Any work that does not qualify as a remodel, as defined in the
paragraph below, or additions that are 1,000 square feet or larger shall
require a complete set of fully dimensioned plans with area calculations of
all the structures on the lot prepared by a licensed architect or engineer.



 



   For the purposes of implementing this subdivision, a remodel shall mean
the alteration of an existing building or structure provided that at least 50
percent of the perimeter length of the contiguous exterior walls and 50
percent of the roof are retained.



 



   7.   Definitions and Standards.  (Added by Ord. No. 184,802, Eff.
3/17/17.)  For the purposes of this Subsection the following definitions and
standards shall apply:



 



   a.   Height of Mass, Front or Rear.  The height of the front mass
is the vertical distance above Grade measured to the highest point of the
roof, structure, or parapet wall, whichever is highest of the front mass. 
The height of the rear mass is the vertical distance above Grade measured to
the highest point of the roof, structure, or parapet wall, whichever is
highest of the rear mass.  Retaining walls shall not be used for the purpose
of raising the effective elevation of the finished grade for purposes of
measuring the height of either mass.



 



   However, whenever the highest point of elevation of the adjoining
sidewalk or ground surface within a 5-foot horizontal distance measured from
the exterior wall of a building exceeds grade level by more than 20 feet, a
building or structure may exceed the maximum front or rear mass height in
number of feet prescribed in this section by not more than 12 feet. 
However, such additional height shall not be permitted to the extent that
such additional height causes any portion of the building or structure to
exceed a front or rear mass height in number of feet as prescribed by this
section as measured from the highest point of the front or rear mass roof
structure or parapet wall to the elevation of the ground surface which is
vertically below this point of measurement.



 



   b.   Lot Coverage is the area of a parcel covered by any structures
extending more than six feet above grade.  However, 400 square feet of
required covered parking that is detached and located within the rear half of
the lot shall be exempt from lot coverage calculations.



 



 



SEC. 12.08.1.  RU RESIDENTIAL URBAN ZONE.



   (Added by Ord. No. 161,716, Eff. 12/6/86.)



 



   The following regulations shall apply in the RU Residential Urban Zone:



 



   A.   Purpose. The regulations set forth in this section are designed
to encourage the subdivision of small single-family residential lots for
development with manufactured homes, including mobilehomes installed on
permanent foundations, factory-built homes, or conventional site built homes.
The small area and yard requirements are intended to facilitate the
economical and flexible use of land, thus increasing the City’s stock of
lower cost single-family housing. It is also the purpose of this zone to
ensure that such developments are located in proper relationship to other
uses and are compatible with those uses.



 



   B.   Use.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.) No
building, structure or land shall be used and no building or structure shall
be erected, structurally altered, enlarged or maintained, except for the
following uses, and, when a “Supplemental Use District” is created, for
those uses as may be permitted in that district.  The provisions of this
section shall not apply to properties in a Hillside area as defined in
Section 91.7003 of this Code and which exceed an average natural slope of 15
percent as calculated according to the slope density formula used by the City
Planning Department.



 



   1.   One-family dwellings, including factory-built  homes,
mobilehomes installed on permanent foundations and conventional site-built
homes.



 



   2.   Parks, playgrounds or community centers, owned and operated by
a governmental agency.



 



   3.   Conditional uses enumerated in Section 12.24 when the location
is approved pursuant to the provisions of that section.



 



   4.   Accessory buildings, including private garages and recreation
rooms. For the location of accessory buildings, refer to Sections 12.21C and
12.22C.



 



   5.   Accessory uses and home occupations, subject to the conditions
specified in Section 12.05 A 16 of this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 171,427,
Eff. 1/4/97, Oper. 3/5/97.)



 



   6.   Name plates and signs, and required automobile parking spaces
as provided for in Section 12.21 A of this Code.  (Added by Ord. No.
171,427, Eff. 1/4/97, Oper. 3/5/97.)



 



   C.   Area.  No building or structure shall be erected or
maintained, nor shall any building or structure be enlarged unless the
following yards and lot areas are provided and maintained in connection with
such building, structure or enlargement:



 



   1.   Front Yard. There shall be a front yard of not less than 10
feet in depth; provided, however, that when a lot is developed with a
mobilehome, pursuant to a change of zone where a “Q” Qualified Condition
has been imposed limiting the use of the lot to a mobilehome, there shall be
a front yard of not less than 7 feet in depth.



 



   2.   Side Yards. There shall be a side yard of not less than 3 feet
in width on each side of a main building. The required side yard may be
eliminated on one side of each lot, provided that:



 



   a.   The remaining side yard is increased to not less than 6 feet in
width;



 



   b.   The buildings or structures are so located that the 0–foot
side yard on one lot adjoins the increased side yard on the adjoining lot;



 



   c.   Prior to the issuance of any building permit for the
installation of a mobilehome, factory–built home or a building permit for a
conventional site–built home, where a side yard is eliminated on one side
of the lot and the remaining side yard is increased to not less than six feet
in width, pursuant to this section, the owner or owners of that lot shall
obtain from the owner or owners of the lot abutting the zero–foot side yard
an easement granting the right to ingress and egress for maintenance
purposes. That easement shall have a minimum width of three feet and shall be
located along the lot line adjacent to the zero–foot side yard. That
easement shall be recorded in the Office of the County Recorder of Los
Angeles County; and a copy of that recorded easement shall be submitted to
the Department of Building and Safety prior to the issuance of a building
permit;



 



   d.   No exterior wall openings shall be permitted on the side of the
building or structure located on a lot line; and all requirements of Chapter
IX, Article I, shall be complied with;



 



   e.   No accessory buildings or structures shall be permitted in the
increased side yard, notwithstanding any other provisions of this article; and



 



   f.   Reduced side yards shall not be permitted adjacent to lots
which are not developed with 0-foot side yards or are adjacent to a street,
alley or walkway.



 



   3.   Rear Yard.  There shall be a rear yard of not less than 10
feet in depth; provided, however, that when a lot is developed with a
mobilehome, pursuant to a change of zone where a “Q” Qualified Condition
has been imposed limiting the use of the lot to a mobilehome, there shall be
a rear yard of not less than 3 feet in depth.



 



   4.   Lot Area.  Every lot shall have a minimum width of 35 feet and
a minimum area of 3,500 square feet. Exceptions to area regulations are
provided for in Section 12.22C.



 



   5.   Minimum Acreage.  A minimum of five acres shall be required
whenever property zoned R1 or designated on an adopted community plan or
district plan as corresponding to the R1 Zone or a more restrictive zone is
proposed to be reclassified in the RU zone.



 



   D.   Restriction. (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)  For any lot designated as Public, Quasi-Public,
Public/Quasi-Public Use, Other Public, or Open Space on the land use map of
the applicable community or district plan; any lot shown on the map as having
existing lakes, waterways, reservoirs, debris basins, or similar facilities;
any lot shown on the map as the location of a freeway right-of-way; and any
property annexed to the City of Los Angeles where a plan amendment was not
adopted as part of the annexation proceedings:



 



   Any of the uses permitted by Subsection B of this section shall require
prior approval in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.24.1 of this
Code.



 



 



SEC. 12.08.3.  RZ RESIDENTIAL ZERO SIDE YARD ZONE.



   (Added by Ord. No. 159,532, Eff. 1/3/85.)



 



   The following regulations shall apply in the RZ Residential Zero Side
Yard Zone.



 



   A.   Purpose.  The regulations set forth in this section are to
provide for a 0-foot side yard, single–family residential zone.



 



   B.   Use. No building, structure or land shall be used and no
building or structure shall be erected, structurally altered, enlarged, or
maintained, except for the following uses, and, when a “Supplemental Use
District” is created by the provisions of Article 3 of this chapter, for
such uses as may be permitted therein:



 



   1.   Dwellings constructed across not more than five contiguous lots
with no more than one dwelling unit on each lot, provided that:



 



   a.   The dwelling unit on each lot shall be structurally separated
from the dwelling unit on the adjacent lot, provided, however, that footings
slab foundations, roof sheathing, roofing and exterior wall coverings may
cross the lot lines. Adjacent dwelling units shall be separated by walls
which comply with the provisions of the exception of Section 91.0502(h)2A of
this Code and which extend from the slab foundation to the roof sheathing.
Common footings on the lot lines shall underlie and support said walls
between dwelling units.



 



   b.   Electrical, plumbing, heating, air conditioning and sewer
systems for each dwelling unit shall be separate and independent of such
system for each other dwelling unit.



 



   c.   Prior to the issuance of any building permit for such
development, the owner or owners shall execute and record a declaration of
covenants, conditions and servitudes in a form designed to run with the land
and satisfactory to the City Attorney, binding themselves and all future
owners and inuring to their mutual benefit and that of the City of Los
Angeles. The declaration shall contain provisions:



 



   (1)   That the owners of all lots on which such building is located
shall be jointly and severally responsible for the maintenance and repair of
the building’s footings, slab foundations, roof sheathing, roofing, common
walls, exterior walls and any other common portion of the building;



 



   (2)   That the costs for such maintenance and repair shall be shared
equitably by the owners of the lots on which the building is located;



 



   (3)   Providing the manner in which decisions concerning such
maintenance and repair and their payment shall be decided;



 



   (4)   That the owners of each such lot shall have a right of access
to each others lot for the purpose of affecting such maintenance and repair;
and



 



   (5)   Providing for the rights of individual lot owners concerning
the demolition or modification of any portion of the building, including a
provision that no common element be modified without the consent of all
affected lot owners.



 



   Said declaration may provide for the establishment of an association of
property owners to administer the provisions of the declaration, and, if so,
shall provide for its organization and government as well as for the
assessment of lot owners to provide for the costs of maintenance, repair and
administration.



 



   A Copy of such declaration shall be delivered to the Department of
Building and Safety prior to the issuance of a building permit, and copies
shall be delivered to any prospective owner of a lot prior to the sale of
that lot.



 



   2.   One–Family Dwellings.



 



   3.   Parks, playgrounds or community centers owned and operated by
governmental agency.



 



   4.   Accessory buildings, including private garages and recreation
rooms  For location of accessory buildings, refer to Sections 12.21C and
12.22C.



 



   5.   Conditional uses enumerated in Section 12.24 when the location
is approved pursuant to the provisions of said section.



 



   6.   Accessory uses and home occupations, subject to the conditions
specified in Section 12.05A16 of this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 171,427,
Eff. 1/4/97, Oper. 3/5/97.)



 



   7.   Name plates and signs, and required automobile parking spaces
as provided for in Section 12.21A of this Code.  (Added by Ord. No. 171,427,
Eff. 1/4/97, Oper. 3/5/97.)



 



   C.   Area.  No building or structure shall be erected or
maintained, nor shall any building or structure be enlarged, unless the
following yards and lot areas are provided and maintained in connection with
such building, structure, or enlargement:



 



   1.   Front Yard.  There shall be a front yard of not less than ten
feet in depth. The provisions of Section 12.22C4, 5 and 8 of this Code,
permitting reduced front yards, shall not apply.



 



   2.   Side Yard.  (Amended by Ord. No. 162,133, Eff. 5/9/87.)



 



   a.   Except as exempted by Paragraph b or Paragraph c of this
subdivision, there shall be a side yard of not less than three feet in width
on each side of a main building of not more than two stories. For a building
more than two stories in height, one foot shall be added to the width of such
side yard for each story above the second story.



 



   b.   No side yard shall be required along any lot line across which
line a dwelling is constructed in accordance with Section 12.08.3B1 of this
Code.



 



   c.   No side yard shall be required on one side of each lot
developed with a detached one–family dwelling, provided that any of the
following requirements are met:



 



   (1)   The remaining side yard shall be increased to not less than
double the width otherwise required.



 



   (2)   Buildings or structures shall be so located that the zero foot
side yard on one lot adjoins the increased side yard on the adjoining lot.



 



   (3)   Prior to the issuance of any building permit for a dwelling
where a side yard is eliminated on one side of the lot and the remaining side
yard is increased to not less than double that otherwise required pursuant to
this section, the owner or owners of that lot shall obtain from the owner or
owners of the lot abutting the zero-foot side yard an easement granting the
right of ingress and egress for maintenance purposes The easement shall have
a minimum width of three feet and shall be located along the lot line
adjacent to the zero-foot side yard. The easement shall be recorded in the
Office of the County Recorder of Los Angeles County, and a copy indicating
recordation shall be submitted to the Department of Building and Safety prior
to the issuance of a building permit.



 



   (4)   Exterior wall openings shall not be permitted on the side of
any building or structure on a lot line, and there shall be compliance with
all requirements of Chapter IX, Article 1 of this Code.



 



   (5)   Accessory buildings or structures shall not be permitted in
the increased side yard, notwithstanding any other provisions of this article.



 



   (6)   Reduced side yards shall only be permitted on a lot which is
adjacent to a lot developed with a zero-foot side yard; no reduced side yard
may be located adjacent to a street, alley or walkway.



 



   3.   Rear Yard.



 



   a.   Except as exempted by Paragraph b of this subdivision there
shall be a rear yard of not less than 15 feet in depth.



 



   b.   No rear yard shall be required along any lot line across which
line a dwelling is constructed in accordance with Section 12.08.3B1 of this
Code.



 



   4.   If a lot is developed without a rear yard, the area of the
front yard and/or any side yards shall be increased so that the total
increase in the combined areas of the front yard and any side yards shall
equal 110% of the area which would otherwise have been contained in a rear
yard.



 



   5.   Lot Area.



 



   a.   Every lot with a driveway on the frontage shall have a minimum
lot width and frontage of 30 feet; provided, however, that for flag lots and
lots on cul–de–sacs and curved streets, the minimum frontage and lot
width within the front yard setback may be not less than 20 feet. Every lot
without a driveway on the frontage shall have a minimum lot width and
frontage of 25 feet.



 



   b.   Every lot classified in the RZ Zone shall be designated on the
Zone Map according to the area of the lot. Lots may be designated as: RZ2.5
(2,500 square feet), RZ3 (3,000 square feet), or RZ4 (4,000 square feet).
Every lot shall have the minimum lot area so designated. (Amended by Ord. No.
162,133, Eff. 5/9/87.)



 



   c.   Exceptions to area regulations are provided for in Section
12.22 C of this Code.



 



   D.   Restriction.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)  For any lot designated as Public, Quasi-Public,
Public/Quasi-Public Use, Other Public, or Open Space on the land use map of
the applicable community or district plan; any lot shown on the map as having
existing lakes, waterways, reservoirs, debris basins, or similar facilities;
any lot shown on the map as the location of a freeway right-of-way; and any
property annexed to the City of Los Angeles where a plan amendment was not
adopted as part of the annexation proceedings:



 



   Any of the uses permitted by Subsection B of this section shall require
prior approval in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.24.1 of this
Code.



 



 



SEC. 12.08.5.  “RW1” RESIDENTIAL WATERWAYS ZONE.



   (Added by Ord. No. 138,095, Eff. 4/19/69.)



 



   The following regulations shall apply in the “RW1” Residential
Waterways Zone:



 



   A.   Purpose.  The regulations set forth in this section are to
make possible the utilization of certain lots fronting on navigable public
canals or waterways, or separated therefrom only by a public street, which
make up, or are a portion of, a sizeable system of recreational waterways
when such lots are predominantly those which were recorded prior to June 1,
1946.



 



   Because of exceptional past history, present conditions, the proximity
of such lots to recreational water areas, and their usual location in areas
which enjoy optimum climatic conditions, the best development of the property
may require variation from some of the standard housing requirements
necessary or desirable in the rest of the City.



 



   B.   Use. No building, structure or land shall be used and no
building or structure shall be erected, structurally altered, enlarged, or
maintained, except for the following uses, and when a “Supplemental Use
District” is created by the provisions of Article 3 of this chapter, for
such uses as may be permitted therein:



 



   1.   One-family dwelling.



 



   2.   Accessory buildings, including private garages, accessory
living quarters, servants quarters, or recreation rooms, provided that:



 



   (a)   No accessory living quarters nor servants quarters are located
or maintained on a lot having an area of less than 4,600 square feet.



 



   (b)   An accessory living quarters, servants quarters, recreation
room or private garage or any combination of said uses may be included in one
building not exceeding two stories in height. For location of accessory
buildings, refer to Sections 12.21C and 12.22C.



 



   3.   Conditional uses enumerated in Section 12.24 when the location
is approved pursuant to the provisions of said section.



 



   4.   Accessory uses and home occupations, subject to the conditions
specified in Section 12.05 A 16 of this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 171,427,
Eff. 1/4/97, Oper. 3/5/97.)



 



   5.   Name plates and signs, and required automobile parking spaces
as provided for in Section 12.21 A of this Code.  (Added by Ord. No.
171,427, Eff. 1/4/97, Oper. 3/5/97.)



 



   C.   Area. No building or structure shall be erected or maintained
nor shall any building or structure be enlarged unless the following yards
and lot areas are provided and maintained in connection with such building,
structure or enlargement:



 



   1.   Front Yard – There shall be a front yard of not less than ten
feet in depth. Notwithstanding any provisions of this article to the contrary;



 



   (a)   The front yard shall be measured from the lot line nearest to,
or separating the lot from, the navigable public canal or waterway, and in
the case of a corner lot, from the line separating the narrowest canal
frontage of the lot from the navigable public canal or waterway, or from the
public street lying between the lot and the navigable public canal or
waterway, except in those cases where the latest tract deed restrictions
specify another line as the front lot line.



 



   (b)   No stairway, platform, landing, or porch shall extend or
project into said required front yard space more than 48 inches, and in no
case shall any such stairway, platform, landing, or porch exceed a height of
30 inches above the finished ground level adjacent thereto in said front yard
space.



 



   (c)   No cornice, belt course, still or other similar architectural
projection, but not including eaves, shall project into said required front
yard space more than 12 inches.



 



   2.   Side Yard – There shall be a side yard on each side of a
building of not less than 10 percent of the width of the lot, but in no event
less than three feet in width.  (Amended by Ord. No. 151,601, Eff. 11/25/78.)



 



   3.   Rear Yard – There shall be a rear yard of not less than 15
feet in depth. In no event shall any exterior wall of the first story of the
main building be located closer than nine feet from the rear lot line. In the
event three or more automobile parking spaces are provided in an attached
garage or carport on the same lot for each dwelling unit, no exterior wall of
the main building shall be located closer than five feet from the rear lot
line. Notwithstanding any provisions of this article to the contrary, the
rear lot line is that line opposite and most distant from the lot line
separating the narrowest canal frontage of the lot from the navigable public
canal or waterway.  (Amended by Ord. No. 150,336, Eff. 12/31/77.)



 



   4.   Lot Area – Every lot shall have a minimum width of 28 feet
and a minimum area of 2,300 square feet. (Amended by Ord. No. 150,336, Eff.
12/31/77.)



 



   5.   Open Space – There shall be usable open space, such as patio,
garden, deck or recreational area, in the amount of ten percent of the lot
area for each story of a main building on the lot. Such open space shall be
in addition to the areas which are included in required yards and may be not
less than 100 square feet in size. For multi-storied buildings, such open
space need not be evenly distributed between all floors of the main building,
but in no event may more than two–thirds of the total usable open space
required be located above the first story of the main building. (Amended by
Ord. No. 150,336, Eff. 12/31/77.)



 



   D.   Restriction.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)  For any lot designated as Public, Quasi-Public,
Public/Quasi-Public Use, Other Public, or Open Space on the land use map of
the applicable community or district plan; any lot shown on the map as having
existing lakes, waterways, reservoirs, debris basins, or similar facilities;
any lot shown on the map as the location of a freeway right-of-way; and any
property annexed to the City of Los Angeles where a plan amendment was not
adopted as part of the annexation proceedings:



 



   Any of the uses permitted by Subsection B of this section shall require
prior approval in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.24.1 of this
Code.



 



 



SEC. 12.09.  “R2” TWO-FAMILY ZONE.



 



   The following regulations shall apply in the “R2” Two–family Zone:



 



   A.   Use – No building, structure or land shall be used and no
building or structure shall be erected, structurally altered, enlarged, or
maintained, except for the following uses, and when a “Supplemental Use
District” is created by the provisions of Article 3 of this chapter, for
such uses as may be permitted therein:



 



   1.   Any use permitted in the “R1” One–family Zone.



 



   2.   A two–family dwelling or two single–family dwellings. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 147,542, Eff. 9/3/75.)



 



   3.   Apartment houses, boarding or rooming houses, or multiple
dwellings on lots having a side lot line adjoining a lot in a commercial or
industrial zone, provided that:  (Amended by Ord. No. 185,462, Eff. 4/18/18.)



 



   (a)   The use, including the accessory buildings and uses and
required yards, does not extend more than 65 feet from the boundary of the
less restrictive zone which it adjoins; and



 



   (b)   The lot area per dwelling unit or guest room regulations of
the RD1.5 zone shall apply to these uses.



 



   4.   (None)



 



   5.   Accessory buildings, including required automobile parking
space—same as R1 Zone – Section 12.08 A.  (Amended by Ord. No. 107,884,
Eff. 9/23/56.)



 



   6.   Accessory uses and home occupations, subject to the conditions
specified in Section 12.05 A.16. of this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No.
171,427, Eff. 1/4/97, Oper. 3/5/97.)



 



   7.   Name plates and signs as provided for in Sec. 12.21 A.7.



 



   B.   Restriction.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)  For any lot designated as Public, Quasi-Public,
Public/Quasi-Public Use, Other Public, or Open Space on the land use map of
the applicable community or district plan; any lot shown on the map as having
existing lakes, waterways, reservoirs, debris basins, or similar facilities;
any lot shown on the map as the location of a freeway right-of-way; and any
property annexed to the City of Los Angeles where a plan amendment was not
adopted as part of the annexation proceedings:



 



   Any of the uses permitted by Subsection A. of this section shall
require prior approval in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.24.1
of this Code.



 



   C.   Area – No building or structure nor the enlargement of any
building or structure shall be hereafter erected or maintained unless the
following yards and lot areas are provided and maintained in connection with
such building, structure or enlargement:



 



   1.   Front Yard – Same as required in “R1” Zone—Sec. 12.08
C.1.



 



   2.   Side Yard – Same as required in “R1” Zone—Sec. 12.08
C.2.



 



   3.   Rear Yard – Same as required in “R1” Zone—Sec. 12.08
C.3.



 



   4.   Lot Area  (Amended by Ord. No. 177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.) –
Every lot shall have a minimum width of 50 feet and a minimum area of 5,000
square feet.  The minimum lot area per dwelling unit shall be 2,500 square
feet, except for apartment houses, boarding or rooming houses, and multiple
dwellings on lots having a side lot line adjoining a lot in a commercial or
industrial zone as provided for in Subsection A. of this section, which uses
shall comply with the lot area per dwelling unit and guest room regulations
of the RD1.5 Zone.



 



   Provided, that where a lot has a width of less than 50 feet or an area
of less than 5,000 square feet and was held under separate ownership or was
of record at the time this article became effective, the lot may be occupied
by any use permitted in this section, except those uses requiring more than
5,000 square feet of lot area.  In no case, however, shall a two-family
dwelling or two-family dwellings be allowed on a lot with an area of less
than 4,000 square feet.



 



   Exceptions to area regulations are provided for in Section 12.22 C. of
this Code.



 



 



SEC. 12.09.1.  “RD” RESTRICTED DENSITY MULTIPLE DWELLING ZONE.



   (Added by Ord. No. 127,777, Eff. 8/1/64.)



 



   The following regulations shall apply in the “RD” Restricted
Density Multiple Dwelling Zone:



 



   A.   Use.  No building, structure or land shall be used and no
building or structure shall be erected, structurally altered, enlarged or
maintained, except for the following uses, and when a “Supplemental Use
District” is created by the provisions of Article 3 of this chapter, for
such uses as may be permitted therein:



 



   1.   One-family dwellings.



 



   2.   Two-family dwellings.



 



   3.   Multiple dwellings or group dwellings.



 



   4.   Apartment houses.



 



   5.   Park, playgrounds or community center, owned and operated by a
governmental agency.



 



   6.   (Amended by Ord. No. 157,144, Eff. 11/22/82.) The keeping of
equines, in conjunction with the residential use of the lot, and subject to
the following limitations:



 



   (a)   Such activities are not for commercial purposes.



 



   (b)   The keeping of equines shall be permitted only on lots having
an area of 20,000 square feet or more. Where equines are being kept, the
number of such animals being kept shall not exceed one for each 5,000 square
feet of lot area.



 



   7.   Accessory buildings, including private garages, accessory
living quarters, servants quarters, recreation rooms, or private stables,
provided that:



 



   (a)   Every accessory building containing accessory living quarters
or servants quarters shall constitute a dwelling and the lot area
requirements of the zone in which it is located shall be complied with.



 



   (b)   No stable is located or maintained on a lot having an area of
less than 20,000 square feet and its capacity does not exceed one equine for
each 5,000 square feet of lot area. (Amended by Ord. No. 157,144, Eff.
11/22/82.)



 



   (c)   An accessory living quarters, servants quarters, recreation
room or private garage or any combination of said uses may be included in one
building not exceeding two stories in height. For location of accessory
buildings, refer to Section 12.21C.



 



   8.   Conditional uses enumerated in Sec. 12.24 when the location is
approved pursuant to the provisions of said section.



 



   9.   Accessory uses and home occupations, subject to the conditions
specified in Section 12.05A16 of this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 171,427,
Eff. 1/4/97, Oper. 3/5/97.)



 



   10.   (Deleted by Ord. No. 171,687, Eff. 8/19/97.)



 



   11.   Name plates and signs, and required automobile parking spaces
as provided for in Section 12.21A of this Code.  (Added by Ord. No. 171,427,
Eff. 1/4/97, Oper. 3/5/97.)



 



   B.   Area.  (Amended by Ord. No. 158,381, Eff. 11/20/83.)  No
building or structure nor the enlargement of any building or structure shall
be erected or maintained unless the following yards and lot areas are
provided and maintained in connection with such building, structure or
enlargement:



 



   1.   Front Yard. There shall be a front yard of not less than 15
feet in depth in the RD1.5, RD2, RD3 and RD4 Zones and not less than 20 feet
in depth in the RD5 and RD6 Zones.



 



   2.   Side Yards:



 



   (a)   RD1.5 and RD2 Zones.  For a main building not more than two
stories in height in the RD1.5 and RD2 zones, there shall be a side yard on
each side of said building of not less than five feet, except that where the
lot is less than 50 feet in width, the side yard may be reduced to 10% of the
width of the lot, but in no event to less than three feet in width. For a
building more than two stories in height in the RD1.5 and RD2 zones, one foot
shall be added to the width of such yard for each additional story above the
second story, but in no event shall a side yard of more than 16 feet in width
be required.



 



   (b)   RD3 and RD4 Zones.  There shall be a side yard on each side
of a main building in the RD3 and RD4 zones of not less than five feet or 10%
of the width of the lot, whichever is larger, but in no event shall a side
yard of more than 10 feet be required.



 



   (c)   RD5 and RD6 Zones. There shall be a side yard on each side of
a main building in the RD5 and RD6 zones of not less than 10 feet in width.



 



   3.   Rear Yards. There shall be a rear yard of not less than 15 feet
in depth in the RD1.5, RD2, RD3 and RD4 Zones and not less than 25 feet in
depth in the RD5 and RD6 Zones.



 



   4.   Lot Area.  Every lot classified in the “RD” Zone is,
according to the lot area requirements, further designated as RD1.5, RD2,
RD3, RD4, RD5 and RD6.



 



   Every lot shall have a minimum width, area and lot area per dwelling
unit or guest room as follows:



 




[LOT SIZE – “RD”ZONE]




 



 

Zone
 

Minimum Lot Width (feet)

 

Minimum Lot Area (Square feet)

 

Minimum Lot Area Per Dwelling Unit or Guest Room (square feet)



RD1.5
 

50

 

5,000

 

1,500



RD2
 

50

 

5,000

 

2,000



RD3
 

60

 

6,000

 

3,000



RD4
 

60

 

8,000

 

4,000



RD5
 

70

 

10,000

 

5,000



RD6
 

70

 

12,000

 

6,000




 



   Exceptions to area regulations are provided for in Section 12.22C.



 



   C.   Restriction.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)  For any lot designated as Public, Quasi-Public,
Public/Quasi-Public Use, Other Public, or Open Space on the land use map of
the applicable community or district plan; any lot shown on the map as having
existing lakes, waterways, reservoirs, debris basins, or similar facilities;
any lot shown on the map as the location of a freeway right-of-way; and any
property annexed to the City of Los Angeles where a plan amendment was not
adopted as part of the annexation proceedings:



 



   Any of the uses permitted by Subsection A of this section shall require
prior approval in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.24.1 of this
Code.



 



 



SEC. 12.09.3.  “RMP” MOBILEHOME PARK ZONE.



   (Added by Ord. No. 164,904, Eff. 7/6/89.)



 



   The following regulations shall apply in the “RMP” Mobilehome Park
Zone:



 



   A.   Purpose. It is the purpose of the “RMP” Mobilehome Park
Zone to encourage the provision of affordable housing in the City as provided
in the Housing Element of the General Plan, by permitting both the retention
and expansion of existing mobilehome parks and the establishment of new
mobilehome parks. It is also the purpose of this ordinance to encourage the
maintenance of the property for residential uses by allowing land zoned RMP
to be used for single family dwellings. Because of the usual location of
these lots in areas with industrial and manufacturing uses, the preservation
of the property for single family residential use may require the variation
from some of the standard housing requirements necessary or desirable in the
rest of the City. Accordingly, the large lot minimum yard area requirements
are necessary to ensure compatibility between single family residential uses
and possible surrounding nonresidential uses.



 



   B.   Use.  No building, structure or land shall be used and no
building or structure shall be erected, moved onto the site, structurally
altered, enlarged or maintained, except for such uses as may be permitted
therein:



 



   1.   Mobilehome parks.



 



   2.   One-family dwellings.



 



   3.   Parks, playgrounds or community centers, owned and operated by
a governmental agency.



 



   4.   Truck gardening; the keeping of equines, poultry, rabbits and
chinchillas, in conjunction with the residential use of the lot, provided
that such animal keeping is not for commercial purposes.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 181,188, Eff. 7/18/10.)



 



   5.   (Deleted by Ord. No. 171,687, Eff. 8/19/97.)



 



   6.   Accessory buildings or structures, including private garages,
accessory living quarters, servants quarters, recreation rooms, private
stables, recreation centers, laundry rooms, greenhouses, bathhouses, storage
buildings, enclosed trash areas and mobilehome park manager’s residence
(which structure may be a one–family dwelling on permanent foundation).
However, such structures may not exceed two stories in height. For the
location of accessory buildings, refer to Sections 12.21C and 12.22C.



 



   7.   Conditional uses enumerated in Section 12.24 when the location
is approved pursuant to the provisions of said section.



 



   8.   Accessory uses and home occupations, subject to the conditions
specified in Section 12.05A16 of this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 171,427,
Eff. 1/4/97, Oper. 3/5/97.)



 



   9.   Name plates and signs as provided for in Section 12.21 A of
this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 171,427, Eff. 1/4/97, Oper. 3/5/97.)



 



   C.   Area. No building or structure nor the enlargement of a
building or structure shall be hereafter erected or maintained unless the
following yards and lot areas are provided and maintained in connection with
such building, structure, or enlargement.



 



   1.   Front yard – For one–family dwellings, there shall be a
front yard of not less than 20 percent of the depth of the lot, but such
front yard need not exceed 25 feet.



 



   2.   Side yards – For one–family dwellings, there shall be a
side yard on each side of a main building of not less than 10 feet.



 



   3.   Rear Yard – For one–family dwellings, there shall be a rear
yard of not less than 25 percent of the depth of the lot, but such rear yard
need not exceed 25 feet.



 



   4.   Lot Area – Every lot used for a one–family dwelling shall
have a width of 80 feet and a minimum area of 20,000 square feet.



 



   The above area requirements shall not apply to mobilehomes parks or
mobilehomes located within mobilehome parks. Mobilehome parks are subject to
the yard and area requirements of Title 25 of the California Administrative
Code. Further exceptions to area regulations are provided for in Section
12.22 C.



 



 



SEC. 12.09.5.  “RW2” RESIDENTIAL WATERWAYS ZONE.



   (Added by Ord. No. 138,095, Eff. 4/19/69.)



 



   The following regulations shall apply in the “RW2” Residential
Water ways Zone:



 



   A.   Purpose. The regulations set forth in this section are to make
possible the utilization of certain lots fronting on navigable public canals
or waterways, or separated therefrom only by a public street, which make up,
or are a portion of, a sizable system of recreational waterways when such
lots are predominantly those which were recorded prior to June 1, 1946.



 



   Because of exceptional past history, present conditions, the proximity
of such lots to recreational water areas, and their usual location in areas
which enjoy optimum climatic conditions, the best development of the property
may require variation from some of the standard housing requirements
necessary or desirable to the rest of the City.



 



   B.   Use. No building, structure or land shall be used and no
building or structure shall be erected, structurally altered, enlarged, or
maintained, except for the following uses, and when a “Supplemental Use
District” is created by the provisions of Article 3 of this chapter, for
such uses as may be permitted therein:



 



   1.   One-family dwellings.



 



   2.   Two-family dwellings.



 



   3.   Accessory buildings, including private garages, accessory
living quarters, servants quarters, or recreational rooms, provided that:



 



   (a)   Every accessory building containing accessory living quarters
or servants quarters shall constitute a dwelling for the purposes of
computing the applicable lot area requirements of this zone.



 



   (b)   An accessory living quarters, servants quarters, recreation
room or private garage, or any combination of said uses, may be included in
one building not exceeding two stories in height. For location of accessory
buildings, refer to Section 12.21C and 12.22C.



 



   4.   Conditional uses enumerated in Section 12.24 when the location
is approved pursuant to the provisions of said section.



 



   5.   Accessory uses and home occupations, subject to the conditions
specified in Section 12.05 A 16 of this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 171,427,
Eff. 1/4/97, Oper. 3/5/97.)



 



   6.   Name plates and signs, and required automobile parking spaces
as provided for in Section 12.21 A of this Code.  (Added by Ord. No.
171,427, Eff. 1/4/97, Oper. 3/5/97.)



 



   C.   Area – No building or structure shall be erected or
maintained nor shall any building or structure be enlarged unless the
following yards and lot areas are provided and maintained in connection with
such building, structure or enlargement:



 



   1.   Front Yard – Same as required in “RW1” Zones—Section
12.08.5-C.,1



 



   2.   Side Yards –  (Amended by Ord. No. 150,336, Eff. 12/31/77. )
– Side yards shall be required in accordance with the provisions of either
paragraphs (a), (b) or (c) below and the limitations hereafter specified:



 



   (a)   For a main building of not more than two stories in height
there shall be a side yard on each side of said building of not less than ten
percent of the width of the lot, but in no event of less than three feet in
width. For a building more than two stories in height, one foot shall be
added to the width of such side yard for each additional story above the
second story.



 



   (b)   There may be a side yard on only one side of a main building,
provided that:



 



   (1)   For a main building of not more than two stories in height,
said required side yard shall be at least four feet in width. For a building
more than two stories in height, one foot shall be added to the width of such
side yard for each additional story above the second story.



 



   (2)   The main building is structurally independent with an
unpierced wall from the ground to the weatherproofing material of the roof
covering between said main building and any adjacent main building.



 



   (3)   An adjoining lot is developed in a similar manner so that the
two main buildings will be adjacent to each other with no side yard between.



 



   (c)   No side yards shall be required for a main building on the
interior lot or lots of groups of adjacent lots when:



 



   (1)   The group of adjacent lots includes at least three, but not
more than five, lots.



 



   (2)   For a main building constructed on an end lot of such a group
of lots, a side yard as required in paragraph (b) (1) of this subdivision is
provided and maintained abutting the outermost lot line.



 



   (3)   The main building on each lot of such group of lots is
structurally independent with an unpierced wall from the ground to the
weatherproofing material of the roof covering between it and any adjacent
main building.



 



   3.   Rear Yard – There shall be a rear yard of not less than 15
feet in depth. Notwithstanding any provisions of this article to the
contrary, the rear lot line is that line opposite and most distant from the
lot line separating the narrowest canal frontage of the lot from the
navigable public canal or waterway. (Amended by Ord. No. 150,336, Eff.
12/31/77.)



 



   4.   Lot Area – Every lot shall have a minimum width of 28 feet
and a minimum area of 2,300 square feet. The minimum lot area per dwelling
unit shall be 1,150 square feet.



 



   5.   Open Space – Same as required in “RW1” Zone – Section
12.08.5 C.5.



 



   6.   Limitations – (Amended by Ord. No. 150,336, Eff. 12/31/77.)
– No person shall be issued a building permit for any lot being developed
without a side yard on each side of the main building until:



 



   (a)   A site plan has been first filed with and approved by the City
Planning Commission. Buildings constructed upon said lot must conform to the
approved site plan. Every person applying for a building permit for such a
lot shall file with the City Planning Commission a site plan which will show
the location of the proposed building or buildings and the location of any
existing buildings on adjacent lots. Said site plan shall be accompanied by
such other plans or data as may be required by the Commission.



 



   The City Planning Commission shall approve, conditionally approve or
disapprove the site plan within 50 days, and may disapprove or require the
revision of said site plan when it is determined that the proposal as
submitted would not adequately maintain side yards between adjoining
ownerships when they are deemed necessary to provide adequate access, light
and air. In the event the Commission disapproves said site plan, the
applicant may appeal the matter to the City Council. The appeal shall set
forth specifically wherein the appellant believes the Commission’s findings
and decision to be in error. Such appeal shall be filed in duplicate in the
public office of the Department of City Planning within 20 days from the date
of mailing the notification of disapproval to the applicant. Thereupon, the
appeal, the Commission file and a report including reasons for disapproval
and answering the allegations in the appeal shall be transmitted to the City
Council; and



 



   (b)   The owner, or owners, of the adjacent lot, or lots, which are
a portion of a side–by–side development, as specified in Section 12.09.5
C.2.(b), or which are a portion of a group development as specified in
Section 12.09.5 C.2.(c), records an agreement in the Office of the County
Recorder whereby he, or they, agree to develop said property with a main
building in the manner indicated on the site plan approved by the City
Planning Commission.



 



   D.   Restriction.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)  For any lot designated as Public, Quasi-Public,
Public/Quasi-Public Use, Other Public, or Open Space on the land use map of
the applicable community or district plan; any lot shown on the map as having
existing lakes, waterways, reservoirs, debris basins, or similar facilities;
any lot shown on the map as the location of a freeway right-of-way; and any
property annexed to the City of Los Angeles where a plan amendment was not
adopted as part of the annexation proceedings:



 



   Any of the uses permitted by Subsection B. of this section shall
require prior approval in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.24.1
of this Code.



 



 



SEC. 12.10.  “R3” MULTIPLE DWELLING ZONE.



 



   The following regulations shall apply in the “R3” Multiple Dwelling
Zone:



 



   A.   Use – No building, structure or land shall be used and no
building or structure shall be erected, structurally altered, enlarged, or
maintained, except for the following uses, and, when a “Supplemental Use
District” is created by the provisions of Article 3 of this chapter, for
such uses as may be permitted therein:



 



   1.   Any use permitted in the “R2” Two–family Zone.



 



   2.   Group dwellings.



 



   3.   Multiple dwellings.



 



   4.   Apartment houses. (Added by Ord. No. 107,884, Eff. 9/23/56.)



 



   5.   Boarding houses, rooming houses or light housekeeping rooms.
(Amended by Ord. No. 113,548, Eff. 6/28/59.)



 



   5.5.   Child care facilities for not more than 20 children. (Added
by No. 145,474, Eff. 3/2/74.)



 



   6.   Accessory uses and home occupations, subject to the conditions
specified in Section 12.05 A.16. of this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No.
171,427, Eff. 1/4/97, Oper. 3/5/97.)



 



   7.   (None)



 



   8.   Accessory buildings – Same as R1 Zone – Sec. 12.08 A.
(Amended by Ord. No. 107,884, Eff. 9/23/56.)



 



   9.   (Deleted by Ord. No. 171,427, Eff. 1/4/97, Oper. 3/5/97.)



 



   10.   Name plates and signs, and required automobile parking spaces
as provided for in Section 12.21 A. of this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No.
171,427, Eff. 1/4/97, Oper. 3/5/97.)



 



   11.   Senior Independent Housing.  (Added by Ord. No. 178,063, Eff.
12/30/06.)



 



   12.   Assisted Living Care Housing.  (Added by Ord. No. 178,063,
Eff. 12/30/06.)



 



   B.   Restriction.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)  For any lot designated as Public, Quasi-Public,
Public/Quasi-Public Use, Other Public, or Open Space on the land use map of
the applicable community or district plan; any lot shown on the map as having
existing lakes, waterways, reservoirs, debris basins, or similar facilities;
any lot shown on the map as the location of a freeway right-of-way; and any
property annexed to the City of Los Angeles where a plan amendment was not
adopted as part of the annexation proceedings:



 



   Any of the uses permitted by Subsection A. of this section shall
require prior approval in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.24.1
of this Code.



 



   C.   Area – No building or structure nor the enlargement of any
building or structure shall be hereafter erected or maintained unless the
following yards and lot areas are provided and maintained in connection with
such building, structure or enlargement:



 



   1.   Front Yard – There shall be a front yard of not less than 15
feet; provided, however, that on key lots the minimum front yard shall be 10
feet. (Amended by Ord. No. 138,744, Eff. 12/24/69.)



 



   2.   Side Yards – For a main building not more than two stories in
height there shall be a side yard on each side of said building of not less
than five feet, except that where the lot is less than 50 feet in width, the
side yard may be reduced to 10% of the width of the lot, but in no event to
less than three feet in width. For a building more than two stories in
height, one foot shall be added to the width of such side yard for each
additional story above the second story, but in no event shall a side yard of
more than 16 feet in width be required. (Amended by Ord. No. 110,225, Eff.
11/23/57.)



 



   3.   Rear Yard – There shall be a rear yard of not less than 15
feet in depth. (Amended by Ord. No. 121,925, Eff. 6/4/62.)



 



   4.   Lot Area – (Amended by Ord. No. 174,994, Eff. 1/15/03.) 
Every lot shall have a minimum width of 50 feet and a minimum area of 5,000
square feet. The minimum lot area per dwelling unit shall be 800 square feet.




   However, where a lot has a width of less than 50 feet or an area of
less than 5,000 square feet and was held under separate ownership or was of
record as of September 23, 1956, and the lot was created in conformance with
the Subdivision Map Act, the lot may be occupied by any use permitted in this
section, except for those uses explicitly requiring more than 5,000 square
feet of lot area.  In no case, however, shall more than two dwelling units
be permitted where a lot has an area of less than 4,000 square feet.




   The minimum lot area per guest room shall be 500 square feet.




   Exceptions to area regulations are provided for in Section 12.22 C.



 



 



SEC. 12.10.5.  RAS3 RESIDENTIAL/ACCESSORY SERVICES ZONE PURPOSE STATEMENT.



   (Added by Ord. No. 174,999, Eff. 1/15/03.)



 



   The purpose of this zone is to provide a mechanism to increase housing
opportunities, enhance neighborhoods, and revitalize older commercial
corridors.  The RAS3 Zone is intended to provide a tool to accommodate
projected population growth in mixed use and residential projects that is
compatible with existing residential neighborhoods.



 



   The following regulations shall apply in the RAS3 Residential/Accessory
Services Zone:



 



   A.   Use.  No building, structure or land shall be used and no
building or structure shall be erected, structurally altered, enlarged, or
maintained, except for the following uses:



 



   1.   Any use permitted in the “R3” Multiple Dwelling Zone.



 



   2.   The following uses when located on the ground floor of any
residential building permitted in the “R3” Multiple Dwelling Zone when
conducted in accordance with the limitations specified in Subsection B, below:



 



   (a)   Bakery goods shop;



 



   (b)   Bank;



 



   (c)   Barber shop or beauty parlor;



 



   (d)   Book or stationery store;



 



   (e)   Childcare facility;



 



   (f)   Clothes cleaning agency or pressing establishment (excluding
chemical processing);



 



   (g)   Clothing store;



 



   (h)   Clubs or lodges, bridge clubs, fraternal or religious
associations;



 



   (i)   Community facilities as defined in Section 13.09 B 3;



 



   (j)   Recreation centers owned and operated by governmental agencies;



 



   (k)   Confectionery stores;



 



   (l)   Counseling and referral facilities;



 



   (m)   Custom dressmaking or millinery stores;



 



   (n)   Drug stores or pharmacies;



 



   (o)   Dry goods or notions stores;



 



   (p)   Florist or gift shops;



 



   (q)   Grocery, fruit, or vegetable stores;



 



   (r)   Hardware or electric appliance stores (no repairs on premises);



 



   (s)   Jewelry stores;



 



   (t)   Joint Live/work quarters;



 



   (u)   Meat markets or delicatessens;



 



   (v)   Offices, business or professional;



 



   (w)   Photographer;



 



   (x)   Property management office;



 



   (y)   Restaurants, tea rooms or cafes (excluding dancing or
entertainment and excluding restaurants with drive-through services);



 



   (z)   Schools;



 



   (aa)   Shoe stores or shoe repair stores;



 



   (bb)   Laundries or cleaning establishments or a self-service type,
using only automatic machines with non-flammable cleaning fluid;



 



   (cc)   Other uses similar to the above list, when determined as
provided for in Section 12.21 A 2;



 



   (dd)   Uses (not involving open storage) customarily incident to any
of the above-named uses and accessory buildings (including storage garages)
when located on the same lot.  Automobile parking space required in
connection with permitted uses as provided for in Section 12.21 A 4;



 



   (ee)   Facilities for the development of software (including the
reproduction of software and data) and other computer and media-related
projects and services, not including hardware.



 



   3.   Uses permitted in a “Supplemental Use District” when
created pursuant to the provisions of Article 3 of this chapter.



 



   B.   Restrictions and Limitations.



 



   1.   All merchandise shall be new and shall be sold at retail only.



 



   2.   All activities are conducted wholly within an enclosed
building, except that restaurants may have outdoor eating areas.



 



   3.   All products produced, whether primary or incidental, are sold
on the premises, and not more than five persons are engaged in the production
or in servicing of materials.



 



   4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 12.21 A 7, each
tenant space may only have one exterior wall sign or projecting sign, not
exceeding 20 feet square feet in area, provided the sign does not extend more
than two feet beyond the wall of the building, and does not project above the
floor of the story immediately above the ground floor.  Signs shall not be
internally illuminated.



 



   5.   Prior approval in accordance with the provisions of Section
12.24.1 shall be required for any lot designated as Public, Quasi-Public,
Public/Quasi-Public Use, other Public, or Open Space on the land use map of
the applicable community or district plan; any lot shown on the map as having
existing lakes, waterways, reservoirs, debris basins, or similar facilities;
any lot shown on the map as the location of a freeway right-of-way; and any
property annexed to the City of Los Angeles where a plan amendment was not
adopted as part of the annexation proceedings.



 



   C.   Area.  No building or structure nor the enlargement of any
building or structure shall be erected or maintained unless the following
yards and lot areas are provided and maintained in connection with the
building, structure or enlargement.



 



   1.   Front Yard.  There shall be a front yard of not less than five
feet in depth, except that where the adjoining building on each side
maintains a front yard of less than five feet in depth, the required front
yard shall be the average of the front yards of the existing building or
buildings.



 



   2.   Side Yard.  Not required for the ground floor portion of
buildings, when the ground floor is used exclusively for commercial
purposes.  For all portions of buildings erected and used for residential
purposes, there shall be side yards of not less than five feet in width along
the residential potion of the perimeter of the building.



 



   3.   Rear Yard.  There shall be a rear yard of not less than 15
feet in depth when the subject property is located adjacent to property zoned
RD or more restrictive, otherwise there shall be a rear yard of not less than
five feet in depth.



 



   4.   Lot Area.  Every lot shall have a minimum width of 50 feet and
a minimum area of 5,000 square feet.  The minimum lot area per dwelling unit
shall be 800 square feet of lot area for each dwelling unit.



 



   Provided, that where a lot has a width of less than 50 feet or an area
of less than 5,000 square feet and was held under separate ownership or was
of record as of September 23, 1956, and the lot was created in conformance
with the Subdivision Map Act, the lot may be occupied by any use permitted in
this section, except for those uses explicitly requiring more than 5,000
square feet of lot area, and the lot area per dwelling unit shall be not less
than 800 square feet.  In no case, however, shall more than two dwelling
units be permitted where a lot has an area of less than 4,000 square feet.



 



   The minimum lot area per guest room shall be 200 square feet.



 



   Exceptions to area regulations are provided for in Section 12.22C.



 



   5.   Loading Space.  A loading space shall be provided in
accordance with Section 12.21 C 6 for any building that contains a commercial
use on the ground floor.



 



 



SEC. 12.11.  “R4” MULTIPLE DWELLING ZONE.



 



   The following regulations shall apply in the “R4” Multiple Dwelling
Zone:



 



   A.   Use – No building, structure or land shall be used and no
building or structure shall be erected, structurally altered, enlarged, or
maintained, except for the following uses, and, when a “Supplemental Use
District” is created by the provisions of Article 3 of this chapter, for
such uses as may be permitted therein:



 



   1.   Any use permitted in the “R3” Multiple Dwelling Zone.



 



   2.   Churches (except rescue mission or temporary revival) or
philanthropic institutions, with yards as required in Sec. 12.21 C.



 



   3.   Child care facilities or nursery schools. (Amended by Ord. No.
145,474, Eff. 3/2/74.)



 



   4.   (Amended by Ord. No. 159,714, Eff. 4/8/85.) Hotels, motels and
apartment hotels under any of the following conditions subject to the
requirements indicated;



 



   (a)   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.) when expressly
provided for in an adopted specific plan, or



 



   (b)   when located on a lot fronting on a major or secondary
highway, provided such lot does not abut a single-family residential zone;
provided, further that 25 percent or more of the area of such lot is also
classified in a commercial zone; or



 



   (c)   the project consists of not more than one addition to an
existing hotel, motel or apartment hotel on a single site, the total of which
shall not exceed one-third of the existing number of guest rooms or suites of
rooms.



 



   5.   Fraternity or sorority houses and dormitories.



 



   6.   Schools, elementary and high, or educational institutions, with
yards as required in Sec. 12.21 C.3.



 



   7.   Museums or libraries (non–profit) with yards as required in
Sec. 12.21 C.3.



 



   8.   Accessory uses and home occupations, subject to the conditions
specified in Section 12.05 A.16. of this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No.
171,427, Eff. 1/4/97, Oper. 3/5/97.)



 



   9.   Retirement hotels, as defined in Section 12.03. (Added by Ord.
No. 159,714, Eff. 4/8/85.)



 



   10.   Accessory buildings, including private garages, accessory
living quarters, guest homes, recreation rooms, or private stables, provided
that:



 



   (a)   No stable is located or maintained on a lot having an area of
less than 20,000 square feet and its capacity does not exceed one equine for
each 5,000 square feet of lot area. (Amended by Ord. No. 157,144, Eff.
11/22/82.)



 



   (b)   Accessory living quarters, a guest house, recreation room or a
private garage or any combination of said uses may be included in one
building, not exceeding two stories in height;



 



   (c)   An accessory living quarters or guest house shall be
considered as a dwelling unit in determining the minimum lot area necessary
for the proposed development.



 



   For the location of accessory buildings, refer to Sec. 12.21 C and Sec.
12.22 C. (Amended by Ord. No. 107,884, Eff. 9/23/56.)



 



   11.   (Deleted by Ord. No. 171,427, Eff. 1/4/97, Oper. 3/5/97.)



 



   12.   Name plates and signs, and required parking spaces as provided
for in Section 12.21 A. of this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 171,427, Eff.
1/4/97, Oper. 3/5/97.)



 



   It is not an unreasonable exercise of the police power to prohibit the
maintenance of signs respecting a person’s business in front of a dwelling
house in an R–4 district.



   Kort v. City of Los Angeles. 52 Cal. App. 2d 804.



 



   It is within the police power to regulate the size of signs and the
information contained thereon.



   Serve Yourself Gas, etc. v. Brock, 39 Cal. 2d 813.



 



   13.   Shelter for the homeless (as defined in Section 12.03 of this
Code) containing not more than 30 beds and designed to serve not more than 30
persons. Except within the Central City Community Plan area, any shelter for
the homeless established pursuant to this subdivision shall be located at
least 600 feet from another such shelter. The minimum number of off-street
parking spaces provided in conjunction with such use shall comply with the
requirements of Section 12.21 A.4.(w) of this Code. (Added by Ord. No.
161,427, Eff. 8/2/86.)



 



   14.   Eldercare Facility.  (Added by Ord. No. 178,063, Eff.
12/30/06.)



 



   B.   Restriction.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)  For any lot designated as Public, Quasi-Public,
Public/Quasi-Public Use, Other Public, or Open Space on the land use map of
the applicable community or district plan; any lot shown on the map as having
existing lakes, waterways, reservoirs, debris basins, or similar facilities;
any lot shown on the map as the location of a freeway right-of-way; and any
property annexed to the City of Los Angeles where a plan amendment was not
adopted as part of the annexation proceedings:



 



   Any of the uses permitted by Subsection A. of this section shall
require prior approval in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.24.1
of this Code.



 



   C.   Area.  No building or structure nor the enlargement of any
building or structure shall be hereafter erected or maintained unless the
following yards and lot areas are provided and maintained in connection with
such building, structure or enlargement.



 



   1.   Front Yard – Same as required in “R3” Zone – Sec. 12.10
C.1.



 



   2.   Side Yards – For a main building not more than two stores in
height, there shall be a side yard on each side of said building of not less
than five feet, except that where the lot is less than 50 feet in width, the
side yard may be reduced to 10% of the width of the lot, but in no event to
less than three feet in width. For a building more than two stories in
height, one foot shall be added to the width of such side yard for each
additional story above the second story, but in no event shall a side yard of
more than 16 feet in width be required. (Amended by Ord. No. 110,225, Eff.
11/23/57.)



 



   3.   Rear Yard – There shall be a rear yard of not less than 15
feet in depth. For a building more than three stories in height, one foot
shall be added to the depth of such rear yard for each additional story above
the third story, but such rear yard need not exceed 20 feet.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 121,925, Eff. 6/4/62.)



 



   4.   Lot Area – (Amended by Ord. No. 174,994, Eff. 1/15/03.) 
Every lot shall have a minimum width of 50 feet and a minimum area of 5,000
square feet.  The minimum lot area per dwelling unit shall be 400 square
feet.




   However, where a lot has a width of less than 50 feet or an area of
less than 5,000 square feet and was held under separate ownership or was of
record as of September 23, 1956, and the lot was created in conformance with
the Subdivision Map Act, the lot may be occupied by any use permitted in this
section, except for those uses explicitly requiring more than 5,000 square
feet of lot area.  In no case, however, shall more than two dwelling units
be permitted where a lot has an area of less than 4,000 square feet.




   The minimum lot area per guest room shall be 200 square feet.




   Exceptions to area regulations are provided for in Section 12.22 C.



 



   5.   Loading space as required by Section 12.21 C.6.



 



   Exceptions to Area regulations are provided for in Sec. 12.22 C.



 



 



SEC. 12.11.5.  RAS4 RESIDENTIAL/ACCESSORY SERVICES ZONE PURPOSE STATEMENT.



   (Added by Ord. No. 174,999, Eff. 1/15/03.)



 



   The purpose of this zone is to provide a mechanism to increase housing
opportunities, enhance neighborhoods, and revitalize older commercial
corridors.  The RAS4 Zone is intended to provide a tool to accommodate
projected population growth in mixed use and residential  projects that is
compatible with existing residential neighborhoods.



 



   The following regulations shall apply in the RAS4 Residential/Accessory
Services Zone:



 



   A.   Use.  No building, structure or land shall be used and no
building or structure shall be erected, structurally altered, enlarged, or
maintained, except for the following uses,



 



   1.   Any use permitted in the “R4” Multiple Dwelling Zone.



 



   2.   The following uses when located on the ground floor of any
residential building permitted in the “R4” Multiple Dwelling Zone when
conducted in accordance with the limitations specified in Subsection B, below:



 



   (a)   Bakery goods shop;



 



   (b)   Bank;



 



   (c)   Barber shop or beauty parlor;



 



   (d)   Book or stationery store;



 



   (e)   Childcare facility;



 



   (f)   Clothes cleaning agency or pressing establishment (excluding
chemical processing);



 



   (g)   Clothes store;



 



   (h)   Clubs or lodges, bridge clubs, fraternal or religious
associations;



 



   (i)   Community facilities as defined in Section 13.09 B 3;



 



   (j)   Recreation centers owned and operated by governmental agencies;



 



   (k)   Confectionery stores;



 



   (l)   Counseling and referral facilities;



 



   (m)   Custom dressmaking or millinery stores;



 



   (n)   Drug stores or pharmacies;



 



   (o)   Dry goods or notions stores;



 



   (p)   Florist or gift shops;



 



   (q)   Grocery, fruit, or vegetable stores;



 



   (r)   Hardware or electric appliance stores (no repairs on premises);



 



   (s)   Jewelry stores;



 



   (t)   Joint Live/work quarters;



 



   (u)   Meat markets or delicatessens;



 



   (v)   Offices, business or professional;



 



   (w)   Photographer;



 



   (x)   Property management office;



 



   (y)   Restaurants, tea rooms or cafes (excluding dancing or
entertainment and excluding restaurants with drive-through services);



 



   (z)   Schools;



 



   (aa)   Shoe stores or shoe repair stores;



 



   (bb)   Laundries or cleaning establishments or a self-service type,
using only automatic machines with non-flammable cleaning fluid;



 



   (cc)   Other uses similar to the above list, when determined as
provided for in Section 12.21 A 2;



 



   (dd)   Uses (not involving open storage) customarily incident to any
of the above-named uses and accessory buildings (including storage garages)
when located on the same lot.  Automobile parking space required in
connection with permitted uses as provided for in Section 12.21 A 4;



 



   (ee)   Facilities for the development of software (including the
reproduction of software and data) and other computer and media-related
projects and services, not including hardware.



 



   3.   Uses permitted in a “Supplemental Use District” when
created pursuant to the provisions of Article 3 of this chapter.



 



B.   Restrictions and Limitations.



 



   1.   All merchandise shall be new and shall be sold at retail only.



 



   2.   All activities are conducted wholly within an enclosed
building, except that restaurants may have outdoor eating areas.



 



   3.   All products produced, whether primary or incidental, are sold
on the premises, and not more than five persons are engaged in the production
or in servicing of materials.



 



   4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 12.21 A 7, each
tenant space may only have one exterior wall sign or projecting sign, not
exceeding 20 feet square feet in area, provided the sign does not extend more
than two feet beyond the wall of the building, and does not project above the
floor of the story immediately above the ground floor.  Signs shall not be
internally illuminated.



 



   5.   Prior approval in accordance with the provisions of Section
12.24.1 shall be required for any lot designated as Public, Quasi-Public,
Public/Quasi-Public Use, other Public, or Open Space on the land use map of
the applicable community or district plan; any lot shown on the map as having
existing lakes, waterways, reservoirs, debris basins, or similar facilities;
any lot shown on the map as the location of a freeway right-of-way; and any
property annexed to the City of Los Angeles where a plan amendment was not
adopted as part of the annexation proceedings:



 



   C.    Area.  No building or structure nor the enlargement of any
building or structure shall be erected or maintained unless the following
yards and lot areas are provided and maintained in connection with the
building, structure or enlargement.



 



   1.   Front Yard. There shall be a front yard of not less than five
feet in depth, except that where the adjoining building on each side
maintains a front yard of less than five feet in depth, the required front
yard shall be the average of the front yards of the existing building or
buildings.



 



   2.    Side Yard.  Not required for the ground floor portion of
buildings, when the ground floor is used exclusively for commercial
purposes.  For all portions of buildings erected and used for residential
purposes, there shall be side yards of not less than five feet in width along
the residential potion of the perimeter of the building.



 



   3.   Rear Yard.  There shall be a rear yard of not less than 15
feet in depth when the subject property is located adjacent to property zoned
RD or more restrictive, otherwise there shall be a rear yard of not less than
five feet in depth.



 



   4.   Lot Area.  Every lot shall have a minimum width of 50 feet and
a minimum area of 5,000 square feet.  The minimum lot area per dwelling unit
shall be 400 square feet of lot area for each dwelling unit.



 



   Provided, that where a lot has a width of less than 50 feet or an area
of less than 5,000 square feet and was held under separate ownership or was
of record as of September 23, 1956, and the lot was created in conformance
with the Subdivision Map Act, the lot may be occupied by any use permitted in
this section, except for those uses explicitly requiring more than 5,000
square feet of lot area, and the lot area per dwelling unit shall be not less
than 400 square feet.  In no case, however, shall more than two dwelling
units be permitted where a lot has an area of less than 4,000 square feet.



 



   The minimum lot area per guest room shall be 200 square feet.



 



   Exceptions to area regulations are provided for in Section 12.22C.



 



   5.   Loading Space.  A loading space shall be provided in
accordance with Section 12.21C6 for any building that contains a commercial
use on the ground floor.



 



 



SEC. 12.12.  “R5” MULTIPLE DWELLING ZONE.



 



   The following regulations shall apply in the “R5” Multiple Dwelling
Zone:



 



   A.   Use. No building, structure or land shall be used and no
building or structure shall be erected, structurally altered, enlarged, or
maintained, except for the following uses, and, when a “Supplemental Use
District” is created by the provisions of Article 3 of this chapter, for
such uses as may be permitted therein:



 



   1.   Any use permitted in the “R4” Multiple Dwelling Zone.



 



   2.   (Amended by Ord. No. 159,714, Eff. 4/8/85.) Hotels, motels and
apartment hotels under any of the conditions listed in Paragraphs (a) through
(d), below, subject to the requirements indicated.  Incidental business may
be conducted in such hotel, motel, apartment hotel or retirement hotel
provided such business is conducted only as a service to persons living
therein, and further provided such business is conducted within the main
building, entrance to the business is from the inside of the building, and no
sign advertising such business is visible from outside the building.



 



   (a)   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.) when expressly
provided for in an adopted specific plan; or



 



   (b)   when located on a lot fronting on a major or secondary
highway, provided such lot does not abut a single-family residential zone,
provided further that 25 percent or more of the area of such lot is also
classified in a commercial zone; or



 



   (c)   the project consists of not more than one addition to an
existing hotel, motel, or apartment hotel on a single site, the total of
which shall not exceed one–third of the existing number of guest rooms or
suites of rooms.



 



   3.   Retirement hotels, as defined in Section 12.03. (Added by Ord.
No. 159,714, Eff. 4/8/85.)



 



   4.   Clubs or lodges (private non–profit), chartered as such by
the State, with yards as required in Sec. 12.21 C.3.



 



   5.   Hospitals or sanitariums (except animal hospitals), with yards
as required in Sec. 12.21 C.3.  (Amended by Ord. No. 177,325, Eff. 3/18/06.)



 



   6.   Accessory uses and home occupations, subject to the conditions
specified in Section 12.05 A.16. of this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No.
171,427, Eff. 1/4/97, Oper. 3/5/97.)



 



   7.   (None)



 



   8.   Accessory buildings – Same as R4 Zone – Sec. 12.11 A.
(Amended by Ord. No. 107,884, Eff. 9/23/56.)



 



   9.   (Deleted by Ord. No. 171,427, Eff. 1/4/97, Oper. 3/5/97.)



 



   10.   Name plates and signs, and required parking spaces as provided
for in Section 12.21 A. of this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 171,427, Eff.
1/4/97, Oper. 3/5/97.)



 



   11.   Skilled Nursing Care Housing.  (Added by Ord. No. 178,063,
Eff. 12/30/06.)



 



   12.   Alzheimer's/Dementia Care Housing.  (Added by Ord. No.
178,063, Eff. 12/30/06.)



 



   B.   Restriction.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)  For any lot designated as Public, Quasi-Public,
Public/Quasi-Public Use, Other Public, or Open Space on the land use map of
the applicable community or district plan; any lot shown on the map as having
existing lakes, waterways, reservoirs, debris basins, or similar facilities;
any lot shown on the map as the location of a freeway right-of-way; and any
property annexed to the City of Los Angeles where a plan amendment was not
adopted as part of the annexation proceedings:



 



   Any of the uses permitted by Subsection A. of this section shall
require prior approval in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.24.1
of this Code.



 



   C.   Area. No building or structure nor the enlargement of any
building or structure shall be hereafter erected or maintained unless the
following yards and lot areas are provided and maintained in connection with
such building, structure or enlargement:



 



   1.   Front Yard – Same as required in “R3” Zone – Sec. 12.10
C.1.



 



   2.   Side Yards – Same as required in “R4” Zone –  Sec.
12.11 C.2.



 



   3.   Rear Yard – Same as required in “R4” Zone – Sec. 12.11
C.3.



 



   4.   Lot Area – (Amended by Ord. No. 174,994, Eff. 1/15/03.) 
Every lot shall have a minimum width of 50 feet and a minimum area of 5,000
square feet.  The minimum lot area per dwelling unit shall be 200 square
feet.




   However, where a lot has a width of less than 50 feet or an area of
less than 5,000 square feet and was held under separate ownership or was of
record as of September 23, 1956, and the lot was created in conformance with
the Subdivision Map Act, the lot may be occupied by any use permitted in this
section, except for those uses explicitly requiring more than 5,000 square
feet of lot area.  In no case, however, shall more than two dwelling units
be permitted where a lot has an area of less than 4,000 square feet.




   Exceptions to area regulations are provided for in Section 12.22 C.



 



   5.   Loading Space – as required by Sec. 12.21 C.6.



 



 



SEC. 12.12.1.  “P” AUTOMOBILE PARKING ZONE.



 



   Land classified as a “P” Zone may also be classified in either an
“A” or “R” Zone. The following regulations shall apply to the “P”
Automobile Parking Zone:



 



   A.   Use – No building, structure or land shall be used and no
building or structure shall be erected, structurally altered, enlarged, or
maintained, except for the following uses, and, when a “Supplemental Use
District” is created by the provisions of Article 3 of this chapter, for
such uses as may be permitted therein:



 



   1.   Public or private parking areas (subject to the regulations of
Section 12.21-A,5 and 6), including the use of such parking areas for ingress
to and egress from adjoining buildings. (Amended by Ord. No. 144,082, Eff.
12/11/72.)



 



   2.   Parking buildings which are located entirely below the natural
or finished grade of the lot whichever is lower, and are designed to be
obscured from view, including parking buildings which are attached to or
integrated with buildings in other zones. Ducts and penthouses enclosing
ventilating equipment, if not closer than 50 feet to an A or R Zone, stair
shafts and guard railings around depressed ramps, may be located not to
exceed 4 feet above grade. (Amended by Ord. No. 117,399, Eff. 12/4/60.)



 



   3.   (Amended by Ord. No. 140,890, Eff. 10/17/70.) — The following
signs located on a public parking area or parking building:



 



   (a)   Internal traffic directional signs indicating entrance or exit
at each permitted driveway. Not more than two such signs shall be permitted
at each driveway nor shall any such sign have a surface area in excess of six
square feet.



 



   (b)   Identification signs displaying only the names of the
operators or sponsors of the parking area (including customary emblems or
trademarks), the hours of operation and the parking charges made in
accordance with the following regulations:



 



   (1)   On any lot there may be one such sign not exceeding 25 square
feet in area adjacent to any one street, except when required by Sec. 103.202
of this Code. Such sign shall not be located within 30 feet of an A or R Zone.



 



   (2)   On a lot having at least 100 feet of frontage along a major or
secondary highway in lieu of the sign permitted by Subparagraph (1), there
may be an identification sign, the size of which shall be calculated at a
ratio of .25 square feet of sign area for each foot of said frontage for the
first 100 feet; at a ratio of.50 square feet of sign area for each foot of
said frontage beyond the initial 100 feet and up to a total of 200 feet of
frontage; and at a ratio of .75 square feet of sign area for each foot of
said frontage beyond 200 feet and up to a total of 300 feet of frontage. In
no case shall this sign exceed 150 square feet in area, in which, if
applicable, advertising may be placed on both a front and back side; a
dimension greater than 15 feet on any one side; and on an overall height of
30 feet. Such sign shall not be located within 50 feet of an A or R Zone, and
not more than one such sign may be located on any one lot frontage. Said sign
may be of a pylon type providing that the combined area of all individual
identification plaques do not exceed that allowed for the total lot frontage.
Where such identification sign is directly opposite and across the street
from an A or R Zone, all lettering and identifying matter shall be placed on
a face of the sign which is at right angles to the lot line abutting the
highway at the nearest point to the sign.



 



   All signs permitted in the P Zone may be illuminated but shall comply
with the requirements set forth in Sec. 62.200 of this Code and shall not
contain any flashing, moving or animated parts or features.



 



   (3)   All such signs abutting a major or secondary highway or a
local street shall be placed clear of the ultimate street dedication line
determined in accordance with the current Standard Street Dimensions adopted
by the City Planning Commission.



 



   (4)   Where the sign area has been previously determined and the lot
frontage subsequently altered either by sale, division of land, or other
means, a new determination based on the new lot frontages must be made by the
Department of City Planning for allowable sign areas in accordance with the
provisions of this section. Notwithstanding any other provision of this
article, any existing signs which are in excess of the size limitations
contained in this section may be maintained, provided that the owner or
owners of record of all lots whose frontages were included in the original
frontage, record in the office of the County Recorder a covenant or
covenants, running with the land, in which said owner or owners agree to
erect no new signs until the existing signs which are in excess of the size
limitations contained in this section have been removed or are made to
conform to said size limitations. A copy of said recorded covenant or
covenants shall be filed with the Department of Building and Safety by said
owner or owners. Further, if said covenant or covenants are not recorded, any
existing signs which are in excess of the size limitations contained in this
section must be removed or made to conform to said size limitations within
six months of the date on which the frontage was altered. In addition, the
applicant shall advise the Superintendent of Building and Safety in writing
within six months that the existing signs which are in excess of the size
limitations have been removed.



 



   EXCEPTION:  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)



 



   The foregoing provisions shall not apply in those instances where a
sign island of C2 Zone has been established within a P-zoned area by means of
a zone change and/or the zone boundary adjustment procedure.  In those
instances, no building permits for the erection of signs in the surrounding P
Zone shall be issued without prior determination and authorization by the
Director of Planning in cases involving zone boundary adjustments, and for
cases involving  a zone change, the City Planning Commission or the Area
Planning Commission pursuant to Section 12.32.



 



   4.   Uses customarily incident to the operation of a public parking
area, including parking guard or attendant shelters. There may be one such
shelter on each public parking area, and one additional shelter for each 300
feet of street frontage in excess of 300 feet. No such shelter shall have a
floor area in excess of 50 square feet. Such shelter shall not be located
within 15 feet of any street, in any required yard area, not within 30 feet
of an A or R Zone.  (Added by Ord. No. 117,399, Eff. 12/4/60.)



 



   5.   Where a lot in a P Zone is also classified in an A or R Zone,
such lot may be used either for any purpose permitted in such A or R Zone, or
for any purpose enumerated in this subsection but in no event for both
purposes. (Added by Ord. No. 117,399, Eff. 12/4/60.)



 



   6.   (Amended by Ord. No. 134,633, Eff. 7/17/67.)  Where a
combination of the C and P Zones has been established on a lot, a sign or
cantilevered canopy, which is permitted on the C Zone portion and is attached
to a building thereon, may project not more than 15 feet into the P Zone,
provided that such sign or cantilevered canopy is at least eight feet above
the subjacent walkway or established grade and that no vertical supports are
located in the P Zone.



 



   Where an automobile service station development is to be located on
property part of which is in a “C” Zone and part of which is in a “P”
Zone, the underground storage tanks which are incidental to the service
station my be located in the “P” Zone, and the temporary parking of
trucks for purposes of servicing such tanks may be permitted in the “P”
Zone.



 



   7.   Conditional uses as allowed pursuant to Section 12.24 W.49. of
this Code when the location is approved pursuant to the provisions of that
section. (Added by Ord. No. 174,132, Eff. 9/3/01.)



 



   8.   Dwelling unit or units constructed on a lot in a small lot
subdivision and approved by the Advisory Agency, pursuant to Article 7 of
this Chapter in conformity with the provision of 12.22 C.27. of this Code.
(Added by Ord. No. 176,354, Eff. 1/31/05.)



 



   B.   Restriction.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)  For any lot designated as Public, Quasi-Public,
Public/Quasi-Public Use, Other Public, or Open Space on the land use map of
the applicable community or district plan; any lot shown on the map as having
existing lakes, waterways, reservoirs, debris basins, or similar facilities;
any lot shown on the map as the location of a freeway right-of-way; and any
property annexed to the City of Los Angeles where a plan amendment was not
adopted as part of the annexation proceedings:



 



   Any of the uses permitted by Subsection A of this section shall require
prior approval in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.24.1 of this
Code.



 



   C.   Area. Where a lot in a “P” zone is also classified as an
“A” or “R” Zone, the area regulations of such “A” or “R” Zone
shall apply, except that for a public parking area the front yard may be as
provided for in Section 12.21 A.6.(a) of this Code. (Amended by Ord. No.
152,467, Eff. 7/14/79.)



 



 



SEC. 12.12.1.5.  “PB” PARKING BUILDING ZONE.*



 



   The following regulations shall apply in the “PB” Parking Building
Zone:



 



   A.   Use – No building, structure or land shall be used and no
building or structure shall be erected, structurally altered, enlarged or
maintained, except for the following uses, and, when a “Supplemental Use
District” is created by the provisions of Article 3 of this chapter, for
such uses as may be permitted therein:



 



   1.   Any use permitted in the “P” Automobile Parking Zone.



 



   2.   (Amended by Ord. No. 138,040, Eff. 3/23/69.)  Parking
buildings, including those which are attached to or integrated with buildings
in other zones, provided that:



 



   (a)   The buildings are constructed with a continuous, enclosing
wall at least three and one-half feet in height at each floor level, except
that the wall shall not be more than three feet in height along those
portions of the building within 15 feet of an entrance or exit driveway
opening. Said enclosing wall need not be solid but it shall be constructed of
material designed and arranged so as to effectively block light emitted on a
horizontal plane from the building. (Amended by Ord. No. 160,273, Eff.
9/16/85.)



 



   (b)   The vehicular entrances and exits to the building are located
and maintained in accordance with a plan approved by the Department of
Traffic so as to interfere as little as possible with pedestrian and
vehicular traffic on the adjacent street.



 



   3.   Uses customarily incident to the operation of a parking garage,
including the furnishing of gasoline and oil, and lubrication and polishing
of automobiles and the exchanging of tires and batteries, provided that all
of such uses are conducted completely within the building and not above the
ground floor, and that no sign advertising such uses is visible from outside
the building. In no event shall the repairing or washing of automobiles be
permitted. (Amended by Ord. No. 122,569, Eff. 9/2/62.)



 



   4.   Conditional uses as allowed pursuant to Section 12.24 W.49. of
this Code when the location is approved pursuant to the provisions of that
section. (Added by Ord. No. 174,132, Eff. 9/3/01.)



 



   B.   Restriction.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)  For any lot designated as Public, Quasi-Public,
Public/Quasi-Public Use, Other Public, or Open Space on the land use map of
the applicable community or district plan; any lot shown on the map as having
existing lakes, waterways, reservoirs, debris basins, or similar facilities;
any lot shown on the map as the location of a freeway right-of-way; and any
property annexed to the City of Los Angeles where a plan amendment was not
adopted as part of the annexation proceedings:



 



   Any of the uses permitted by Subsection A of this section shall require
prior approval in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.24.1 of this
Code.



 



   C.   Area.  No building or structure, nor the enlargement of any
building or structure shall be erected or maintained unless the following
yards are provided and maintained in connection with such building, structure
or enlargement:



 



   1.   Front Yard.  Wherever any portion of a frontage in which a
“PB” zoned lot is located, is classified in an “A”, “RE”,
“RS”, “R1” or “R2” Zone or wherever the portion of the frontage
directly opposite and across the street from the lot in the “PB” Zone is
classified in an “A”, “RE”, “RS”, R1”, or “R2” Zone, a
front yard at least ten feet in depth shall be provided and maintained;
except that wherever any portion of a frontage in which a “PB” zoned lot
is located, is classified in an “RD”, “R3”, “R4”, or “R5”
Zone, or wherever the portion of the frontage directly opposite and across
the street from the lot in the “PB” Zone is classified in an “RD”,
“R3”, “R4” or “R5” Zone, a front yard at least five feet in depth
shall be provided and maintained. Except for the necessary driveway
approaches, the required front yard space shall be fully landscaped with
lawn, trees, shrubs or suitable ground cover, which shall be maintained in
good condition at all times. In no event shall said required front yard space
be used for the parking of automobiles. (Amended by Ord. No. 127,777, Eff.
8/1/64.)



 



   2.   Side Yard.  Where the side of a lot in the PB Zone abuts upon
the side of a lot in an A or R Zone, a five foot side yard shall be provided
and maintained for buildings not more than two stories in height. Where the
side of a lot in the PB Zone abuts upon a public street and is located in a
frontage in which any portion is classified in an A or R Zone, or is directly
opposite and across the street from frontage in the A or R Zone, a five-foot
side yard shall be provided and maintained adjoining said street line for
buildings not more than two stories in height. For buildings more than two
stories in height, one foot shall be added to the width of a required side
yard for each additional story above the second story. Except for the
necessary driveway approaches or paved pedestrian access ways, the required
side yard space shall be landscaped with shrubs, trees or suitable ground
cover, which shall be maintained in good condition at all times. (Amended by
Ord. No. 138,040, Eff. 3/23/69.)



 



   3.   Rear Yard.  Where the rear of a lot in the PB Zone abuts upon
a lot in an A or R Zone, a rear yard at least five feet in depth shall be
provided and maintained for a building not more than two stories in height.
For a building more than two stories in height, one foot shall be added to
the depth of such rear yard for each additional story above the second story.
Except for the necessary driveway approaches or paved pedestrian access ways,
the required rear yard space shall be landscaped with shrubs, trees or
suitable ground cover, which shall be maintained in good condition at all
times.



   4.   Exception. The provisions of this subsection concerning the
requirements for front, side and rear yards shall not apply to the basement
portions of a building which are completely below the natural or finished
grade of the lot, whichever is lower.  (Amended by Ord. No. 122,569, Eff.
9/2/62.)



 



   * All property within the City of Los Angeles in the PB Zone on the
effective date of this ordinance shall hereafter by classified as being in
Height District No. 1.  The Director of Planning is hereby instructed to
make all changes necessary to carry out the purposes and intent of this
ordinance.



 



 



SEC. 12.12.2.  “CR” LIMITED COMMERCIAL ZONE.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 148,783, Eff. 10/14/76.)



 



   The following regulations shall apply in the “CR” Limited
Commercial Zone:



 



   A.   Use – (Amended by Ord. No. 144,365, Eff. 4/5/73, Operative
9/1/73.) No building structure or land shall be used and no building or
structure shall be erected, structurally altered, enlarged, or maintained,
except for the following uses, and, when a “Supplemental Use District” is
created by the provisions of Article 3 of this chapter, for such uses as may
be permitted therein:



 



   1.   The following uses when conducted wholly within an enclosed
building:



 



   (a)   Bank, or financial institution.



 



   (b)   Business college, professional or scientific school or college
(classroom or lecture instruction only); not including a music school, trade
school, nor any school specializing in manual training, shop work or in the
repair or maintenance of machinery or mechanical equipment.



 



   (c)   Club or lodge (nonprofit).



 



   (d)   Hotels (including motels), Apartment hotels or hostels when no
portion of a structure proposed to be used as a hotel (including a motel),
apartment hotel or hostel is located within 500 feet from any A or R zone. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 185,931, Eff. 7/1/19.)



 



   (e)   Museum or library (non-profit).



 



   (f)   Office, general business or professional, including that of a
real estate or stock broker, or an insurance or building and loan company.



 



   (g)   Prescription pharmacy when conducted within a permitted office
building, provided: that entrances to the pharmacy are located inside of the
building; that no sign or other form of advertising is visible from outside
the office building; that no sign or other form of advertising is utilized in
any manner whatsoever outside of the building as a means of advertising the
prescription pharmacy; and that the prescription pharmacy remains open for
business only between the hours of 7:00 A.M. to 8:00 P.M., Monday through
Saturday.  (Amended by Ord. No. 165,403, Eff. 2/17/90.)



 



   (h)   Counseling and referral facilities.  (Added by Ord. No.
149,517, Eff.  5/26/77.)



 



   1.5.   Child care facilities or nursery schools.  (Added by Ord.
No. 145,474, Eff. 3/2/74.)



 



   2.   Church (except rescue mission or temporary revival).



 



   3.   Park, playground, or community center, owned and operated by a
governmental agency.



 



   4.   Public parking area when located and developed as required in
Section 12.21 A.6., with signs as permitted in Section 12.21.1 A.3.



 



   4.5.   Any single family dwelling, two-family dwelling or apartment
house use permitted in the R4 Multiple Dwelling Zone provided that all the
regulations of said zone are complied with.  (Added by Ord. No. 148,783,
Eff. 10/14/76.)



 



   5.   School, elementary or high, or educational institution.



 



   6.   Signs indicating the name of the person, business, or the type
of business occupying the premises, or the name of the building. Such signs
shall be attached to a building and all letters, lights and other
identification matter shall be confined to only one surface of the sign,
which surface shall be parallel with and facing the front lot line; except
that on a corner lot such signs may be placed on a building so that the
surface on which the identification matter is confined, is parallel with the
side street lot line, or where a building is constructed with a diagonal or
curved wall facing the adjacent street intersection, the signs may be
attached to such wall so that the surface, on which the identification matter
is confined, is parallel thereto. No portion of any sign on a lot shall
extend along the side street more than 50 feet from the principal street upon
which said lot abuts (for the determination of the principal street, refer to
Subsection C. of this section).



 



   No portion of any such sign shall project more than 12 inches beyond
the wall of the building nor project above the roof ridge or parapet wall
(whichever is the higher) of the building.



 



   A zoning Administrator shall determine the application of these
regulations concerning the required placement of signs, where such
regulations are difficult to apply because of the unusual design of a
building or its location on the lot, or because of the odd shape of the lot.



 



   Provided, however, that any name plate or sign permitted on a lot in an
R Zone by Section 12.21 A.7. shall likewise be permitted on a lot in a CR
Zone containing no building or structure.



 



   7.   Conditional uses enumerated in Section 12.24 when approved
pursuant to the provisions of said section.



 



   8.   Other uses similar to those listed in this subsection, when
determined by a Zoning Administrator, as provided for in Section 12.21 A.2.,
but not including stores, shops or other establishments where goods, wares or
merchandise are displayed, sold or serviced.



 



   9.   Uses (not involving open storage) customarily incident to any
of the above uses, and accessory buildings (including storage garages), when
located on the same lot.



 



   10.   Automobile parking space required as provided in Section 12.21
A.4. in connection with all uses permitted in this zone.



 



   11.   (Deleted by Ord. No. 171,687, Eff. 8/19/97.)



 



   12.   Mini-shopping centers which comply with the provisions of
Section 12.22 A.23. (Added by Ord. No. 164,201, Eff. 1/10/89.)



 



   13.   Restaurant, when conducted within a permitted office building,
provided: that entrances to the restaurant are located inside of the
building; that no sign or other form of advertising is visible from outside
the office building; that no sign or other form of advertising is utilized in
any manner whatsoever outside of the building as a means of advertising the
restaurant; that the restaurant remains open for business only between the
hours of 7 a.m. to 8 p.m., Monday through Saturday; and that no entertainment
or dancing is conducted or permitted. An outdoor eating area for a ground
floor restaurants may be located anywhere between the building and its
required front yard, or between the building and any required side or rear
yard which side or rear yard abuts a public street. (Amended by Ord. No.
165,403, Eff. 2/17/90.)



 



   14.   Wireless antennas, including the associated equipment
cabinets, located on the rooftops of buildings when established in
conformance with the standards contained in Section 12.21 A.21. of this Code,
and which are not located within a scenic parkway specific plan, scenic
corridor specific plan, a roadway designated as a scenic highway within a
specific plan area; or on the rooftops of buildings that are designated on
the National Register of Historic Places, including Contributing Buildings in
National Register Historic Districts, the California Register of Historic
Resources, the City of Los Angeles List of Historic-Cultural Monuments, or a
Contributing Structure located in an Historic Preservation Overlay Zone
(HPOZ) that has been established pursuant to Section 12.20.3 of this Code. 
(Added by Ord. No. 177,120, Eff. 12/26/05.)



 



   B.   Restriction.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)  For any lot designated as Public, Quasi-Public,
Public/Quasi-Public Use, Other Public, or Open Space on the land use map of
the applicable community or district plan; any lot shown on the map as having
existing lakes, waterways, reservoirs, debris basins, or similar facilities;
any lot shown on the map as the location of a freeway right-of-way; and any
property annexed to the City of Los Angeles where a plan amendment was not
adopted as part of the annexation proceedings:



 



   Any of the uses permitted by Subsection A of this section shall require
prior approval in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.24.1 of this
Code.



 



   C.   Area. (Amended by Ord. No. 144,365, Eff. 4/5/73 Operative,
9/1/73.) No building nor structure nor the enlargement of any building or
structure shall be erected or maintained unless the following yards, lot
areas and loading spaces are provided and maintained in connection with such
building, structure or enlargement.



 



   In applying the provisions of this section, the front lot line of a
corner lot shall be the line separating said lot from the principal street
upon which it abuts. Where said lot abuts upon a major or secondary highway
such highway shall be construed as being the principal street. Where a lot
abuts upon two or more highways, and in all other cases, a Zoning
Administrator shall determine which street is the principal street.



 



   1.   Front Yard –  There shall be a front yard of not less than
10 feet in depth.



 



   2.   Side Yards – Side yards shall be required only in the
following instances:



 



   (a)   Along the side street lot line of every corner lot in the CR
Zone.



 



   (b)   Where the side lot line of the lot in the CR Zone abuts upon
the side of a lot in an A or R Zone.



 



   (c)   For all portions of buildings erected and used for residential
purposes.



 



   The width of the yard required along the side street lot line shall be
not less than 10 percent of the lot width but need not exceed 10 feet and
shall not be less than five feet.



 



   The width of the yard abutting an A or R Zone or required for buildings
erected and used for residential purposes shall be not less than 10 percent
of the lot width, but need not exceed five feet and shall be not less than
three feet. One foot shall be added to the width of such side for each story
above the second story, but such side yard need not exceed 16 feet in width.



 



   3.   Rear Yards – There shall be a rear yard of not less than 15
feet in depth. One foot shall be added to the depth of such rear yard for
each additional story above the third story.



 



   4.   Lot Area – The lot area requirements of the R4 Zone (Section
12.11 C.4.) shall apply to all portions of buildings erected and used for
residential purposes. (Amended by Ord. No. 148,783, Eff. 10/13/76.)



 



   5.   Loading Space – As required by Section 12.21 C.6. 
Exceptions to area regulations are provided in Section 12.22 C.



 



 



SEC. 12.13.  “C1” LIMITED COMMERCIAL ZONE.



 



   The following regulations shall apply to the “C1” Limited
Commercial Zone:



 



   A.   Use – No building, structure or land shall be used and no
building or structure shall be erected, structurally altered. enlarged or
maintained, except for the following uses, and when a “Supplemental Use
District” is created by the provisions of Article 3 of this chapter, for
such uses as may be permitted therein:



 



   1.   Any use permitted in the CR Limited Commercial Zone but not
including a church, educational institution, museum or school (elementary or
high), provided that all the regulations of said CR zone are complied with
except as provided in this section. Any residential use permitted in the R3
Multiple Residential Zone provided that all the regulations of said R3 zone
are complied with except as provided in this section. (Amended by Ord. No.
157,994, Eff. 9/25/82.)



 



   1.5.   Hotels (including motels), apartment hotels or hostels when
no portion of a structure proposed to be used as a hotel (including a motel),
apartment hotel or hostel is located within 500 feet from any A or R zone. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 185,931, Eff. 7/1/19.)



 



   2.   (Amended by Ord. No. 140,726, Eff. 9/3/70.) The following
retail stores, shops or businesses when conducted in accordance with the
limitations hereafter specified:



 



   (a)   Types of Uses:



 



   (1)   Bakery goods shop;



 



   (2)   (None)



 



   (3)   Barber shop or beauty parlor;



 



   (4)   Book or stationery store;



 



   (5)   Clothes cleaning agency or pressing establishment;



 



   (6)   Clubs or lodges, bridge clubs, fraternal or religious
associations;  (Amended by Ord. No. 144,365, Eff. 4/5/73, Oper. 9/1/73.)



 



   (7)   Confectionery store;



 



   (8)   Custom dressmaking or millinery store;



 



   (9)   Drugstore;



 



   (10)   Dry goods or notions store;



 



   (11)   Florist or gift shop;



 



   (12)   Grocery, fruit or vegetable store;



 



   (13)   Hospital, sanitarium or clinics (except animal hospitals). 
(Amended by Ord. No. 177,325, Eff. 3/18/06.)



 



   (14)   Hardware or electric appliance store;



 



   (15)   Jewelry store;



 



   (16)   Laundry agency;



 



   (17)   Meat market or delicatessen store;



 



   (18)   Office, business or professional;



 



   (19)   Photographer;



 



   (20)   Restaurant, tea room or cafe (excluding dancing or
entertainment).  Restaurants with drive-through service that adjoin or are
across the street from or separated only by an alley from any portion of a
lot in a residential zone or use or in an RA Zone, shall be subject to the
conditional use requirements of Section 12.24 W.17.  (Amended by Ord. No.
173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)



 



   (21)   Shoe store or shoe repair store;



 



   (22)   Tailor, clothing or wearing apparel shop;



 



   (23)   Laundries or cleaning establishments of a self-service type
using only automatic machines with non-flammable cleaning fluid; (Added by
Ord. No. 140,726, Eff. 9/4/70.)



 



   (24)   Other uses similar to the above list when determined as
provided for in Section 12.21 A.2.;  (Added by Ord. No. 140,726, Eff.
9/4/70.)



 



   (25)   Uses (not involving storage) customarily incident to any of
the above- named uses and accessory buildings (including storage garages)
when located on the same lot. Automobile parking space required in connection
with permitted uses as provided for in Section 12.21 A.4.



 



   (26)   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,754, Eff. 3/5/01.)  Indoor swap
meets when authorized pursuant to the provisions of Section 12.24 W.42.



 



   (27)   Joint living and work quarters for the following
occupations:  accountants; architects; artists and artisans; attorneys;
computer software and multimedia related professionals; consultants;
engineers; fashion, graphic, interior and other designers; insurance, real
estate and travel agents; photographers and other similar occupations as
determined by the Zoning Administrator, provided that the commercial uses are
permitted by the underlying zone. (First Sentence Amended by Ord. No.
172,572, Eff. 6/3/99.)  For all existing buildings, the yards required shall
be the same as the yards observed by the existing structures on the site. 
For an existing building, for which a building permit was issued before April
1, 1994, and which contains no more than eight living and work quarters, the
number of parking spaces required shall be the same as the number of spaces
existing on the site.  All other buildings used for this purpose must meet
the parking and yard requirements for residential buildings.  (Added by Ord.
No. 169,670, Eff. 5/13/94.)



 



   (28)   Facilities for the development of software (including the
reproduction of software and data) and other computer and media-related
products and services, not including hardware.  (Added by Ord. No. 172,106,
Eff. 8/14/98.)



 



   (29)   Skilled Nursing Care Housing.  (Added by Ord. No. 178,063,
Eff. 12/30/06.)



 



   (30)   Alzheimer's/Dementia Care Housing.  (Added by Ord. No.
178,063, Eff. 12/30/06.)



 



   (31)   Eldercare Facility.  (Added by Ord. No. 178,063, Eff.
12/30/06.)



 



   (b)   Limitations:



 



   (1)   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.) All merchandise
shall be new and shall be sold at retail only, unless the sale of the
merchandise is authorized in an indoor swap meet pursuant to the provisions
of Section 12.24 W.42.



 



   (2)   All activities are conducted wholly within an enclosed
building, except that ground floor restaurants may have outdoor eating areas.
An outdoor eating area for a ground floor restaurants may be located anywhere
between the building and its required front yard, or between the building and
any required side or rear yard which side or rear yard abuts a public
street.  (Amended by Ord. No. 165,403, Eff. 2/17/90.)



 



   (3)   All products produced, whether primary or incidental, are sold
on the premises, and not more than five persons are engaged in such
production or in servicing of materials. (Amended by Ord. No. 144,365, Eff.
4/5/73, Oper. 9/1/73.)



 



   (4)   Any exterior sign is attached to a building, does not extend
more than two feet beyond the wall of the building, and does not project
above the roof ridge or parapet wall (whichever is higher) of the building.



 



   (5)   (Added by Ord. No. 174,097, Eff. 8/26/01.)  All retail
stores, shops or businesses shall be limited to less than 100,000 square feet
of floor area.  This limitation shall apply to the cumulative sum of related
or successive permits that are a part of a larger project, such as piecemeal
additions to a building, or multiple buildings on a lot or adjacent lots, as
determined by the Director of Planning.



 



   B.   Restriction.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)  For any lot designated as Public, Quasi-Public,
Public/Quasi-Public Use, Other Public, or Open Space on the land use map of
the applicable community or district plan; any lot shown on the map as having
existing lakes, waterways, reservoirs, debris basins, or similar facilities;
any lot shown on the map as the location of a freeway right-of-way; and any
property annexed to the City of Los Angeles where a plan amendment was not
adopted as part of the annexation proceedings:



 



   Any of the uses permitted by Subsection A of this section shall require
prior approval in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.24.1 of this
Code.



 



   C.   Area.  (Amended by Ord. No. 144,365, Eff. 4/5/73, Oper.
9/1/73.)  No building or structure nor the enlargement of any building or
structure, shall be erected and maintained unless the following yards, lot
areas and loading spaces are provided and maintained in connection with such
building, structure or enlargement.



 



   In applying the provisions of this section, the front lot line of a
corner lot shall be the line separating the lot from the principal street
upon which it abuts. Where said lot abuts upon a major or secondary highway
such highway shall be construed as being the principal street. Where a lot
abuts upon two or more highways, and in all other cases, a Zoning
Administrator shall determine which street is the principal street.



 



   1.   Front Yard.  There shall be a front yard of not less than 10
feet in depth.



 



   2.   Side Yards.  Side yards shall be required only in the
following instances:



 



   (a)   Along the side street lot line of every corner lot in the C1
Zone.



 



   (b)   Where the side lot line of the lot in the C1 Zone abuts upon
the side of a lot in an A or R Zone.



 



   (c)   For all portions of buildings erected and used for residential
purposes.



 



   The width of such required side yard shall not be less than 10 percent
of the lot width, but need not exceed five feet and shall not be less than
three feet in width. Provided, however, that one foot shall be added to the
width of the required side yard for each additional story above the second
story, but such side yard need not exceed 16 feet in width.



 



   In all other cases, a side yard for a commercial building shall not be
required, but if provided, it shall not be less than three feet in width.



 



   3.   Rear Yard.  A rear yard shall be provided only in the
following instances:



 



   (a)   Where the rear of the lot in the C1 Zone abuts upon a lot in
an A or R Zone.



 



   (b)   For all portions of buildings erected and used for residential
purposes. Such yard shall be provided and maintained at and above the floor
level of the lowest story designed or used for residential purposes, and the
full height of the building shall be used in computing the required depth of
rear yard.



 



   The depth of such required rear yard shall be not less than 15 feet.
One foot shall be added to the depth of such rear yard for each additional
story above the third story, but such rear yard need not exceed 20 feet in
depth.



 



   4.   Lot Area.  The lot area requirements of the R3 Zone (Section
12.10 C.4.) shall apply to all portions of buildings erected and used for
residential purposes. Provided, however, that where the lot is in the “H”
Hillside or Mountainous Area, there shall be not more than one dwelling unit
for each 5,000 square feet of lot area.



 



   5.   Loading Space.  As required by Section 12.21 C.1.  Exceptions
to Area regulations are provided for in Section 12.22 C.



 



 



SEC. 12.13.5.  “C1.5” LIMITED COMMERCIAL ZONE



   (Added by Ord. No. 144,365, Eff. 4/5/73, Oper. 9/1/73.)



 



   The following regulations shall apply to the C1.5 Limited Commercial
Zone:



 



   A.   Use – No building, structure or land shall be used and no
building or structure shall be erected, structurally altered, enlarged or
maintained, except for the following uses, and when a “Supplemental Use
District” is created by the provisions of Article 3 of this chapter, for
such uses as may be permitted therein.



 



   1.   Any use permitted in the C1 Limited Commercial Zone, provided
that all regulations and limitations of said C1 zone are complied with except
as provided in this section. Any single-family dwelling, two-family dwelling
or apartment house use permitted in the R4 Multiple Dwelling Zone provided
that all regulations of said R4 zone are complied with except as provided in
this section. (Amended by Ord. No. 156,994, Eff. 9/25/82.)



 



   2.   The following stores, shops, services or facilities when
conducted in accordance with the limitations hereafter specified:



 



   (a)   Types of Uses:



 



   (1)   Addressograph service.



 



   (2)   Air conditioning equipment service.



 



   (3)   Appliance repair, household.



 



   (4)   Aquarium.



 



   (5)   Auditorium having a seating capacity for not more than 3,000
people.



 



   (6)   (None)



 



   (7)   Baths, Turkish and the like.



 



   (8)   Blueprinting and photostating.



 



   (9)   Bootblack stand.



 



   (10)   Broadcasting studio, without transmitting towers.



 



   (11)   Building materials, retail.



 



   (12)   Burglar alarm business.



 



   (13)   Collection agency office.



 



   (14)   Department store.



 



   (15)   Employment agency or bureau.



 



   (16)   Exhibits, commercial or cultural.



 



   (17)   Export import business, with not more than 3,000 square feet
of storage area.



 



   (18)   Frozen food store.



 



   (19)   Interior decorating store.



 



   (20)   Locksmith shop.



 



   (21)   Mimeographing service.



 



   (22)   Museum (for profit).



 



   (23)   Newsstand.



 



   (24)   Physical culture institution, reducing salon.



 



   (25)   Rubber or metal stamp store.



 



   (26)   Sound score production.



 



   (27)   Studio, except drama, dancing, music, and motion picture.



 



   (28)   Swimming pool, commercial.



 



   (29)   Telephone exchange.



 



   (30)   Theater, and showcase theater.  (Amended by Ord. No.
148,910, Eff. 11/17/76.)



 



   (31)   Trading stamp business.



 



   (32)   Typewriter or adding machine repair.



 



   (b)   Limitations.  (Amended by Ord. No. 156,924, Eff. 8/23/82.)



 



   (1)   All merchandise shall be sold at retail only;



 



   (2)   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.) All merchandise
sold shall be new, except merchandise which is sold incidental to the
operation of a permitted repair shop; or unless the sale of used merchandise
is authorized in an indoor swap meet pursuant to the provisions of Section
12.24 W.42.



 



   (3)   All activities, including storage, shall be conducted wholly
within an enclosed building;



 



   (4)   All products produced, whether primary or incidental, shall be
sold on the premises, and not more than five persons may be engaged in such
production or in servicing of materials at the same time.



 



   3.   Golf course or club; not including miniature or pitch and putt
courses, golf driving tees or ranges, and similar commercial golf uses.



 



   4.   Park, playground or recreational or community center, privately
operated. (Amended by Ord. No. 145,250, Eff. 12/24/73.)



 



   5.   Parking buildings and all buildings containing automobile
parking as primary or accessory uses. For the purposes of this section, all
references to the “PB” Zone in Section 12.12.1.5 shall be deemed to mean
the “C1.5” Zone and the requirements and restrictions applicable to the
erection, alteration and maintenance of parking buildings and all buildings
containing automobile parking as primary or accessory uses therein shall
apply in the “C1.5” Zone. (Amended by Ord. No. 160,273, Eff. 9/16/85.)



 



   6.   Signs as permitted in the C1 Zone - Section 12.13 A.2.(b)(4).



 



   7.   Other uses similar to the above, as provided for in Section
12.21 A.2.



 



   8.   Uses (not involving open storage) customarily incident to any
of the above uses, and accessory buildings, when located on the same lot.



 



   9.   Automobile parking space as required in Section 12.21 A.4., or
as provided in connection with all uses permitted in this zone.



 



   10.   The conducting of any game of bingo pursuant to the provisions
of Article 4.5 of Chapter IV of this Code. (Added by Ord. No. 153,620, Eff.
5/18/80.)



 



   11.   Hotels (including motels), apartment hotels or hostels when no
portion of a structure proposed to be used as a hotel (including a motel),
apartment hotel or hostel is located within 500 feet from any A or R zone. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 185,931, Eff. 7/1/19.)



 



   12.   (Deleted by Ord. No. 171,687, Eff. 8/19/97.)



 



   13.   (Deleted by Ord. No. 171,687, Eff. 8/19/97.)



 



   B.   Area – No building or structure nor the enlargement of any
building or structure shall be erected or maintained unless the following
yards, lot areas and loading spaces are provided and maintained in connection
with such building, structure or enlargement.



 



   1.   Front Yard.  There shall be a front yard of not less than 10
feet in depth.



 



   2.   Side and Rear Yards.  Same as required in the C1 Zone.
(Section 12.13 C.2. and 3.)



 



   3.   Lot Area.  The lot areas requirements of the R4 Zone (Section
12.11 C.4.) shall apply to all portions of buildings erected and used for
residential purposes.



 



   4.   Loading Space.  As required by Section 12.21 C.6.  Exceptions
to area regulations are provided for in Section 12.22 C.



 



   C.   Restriction.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)  For any lot designated as Public, Quasi-Public,
Public/Quasi-Public Use, other Public, or Open Space on the land use map of
the applicable community or district plan; any lot shown on the map as having
existing lakes, waterways, reservoirs, debris basins, or similar facilities;
any lot shown on the map as the location of a freeway right-of-way; and any
property annexed to the City of Los Angeles where a plan amendment was not
adopted as part of the annexation proceedings:



 



   Any of the uses permitted by Subsection A. of this section shall
require prior approval in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.24.1
of this Code.



 



 



SEC. 12.14.  “C2” COMMERCIAL ZONE.



 



   The following regulations shall apply in the “C2” Commercial Zone:



 



   A.   Use – No building, structure or land shall be used and no
building or structure shall be erected, structurally altered, enlarged or
maintained, except for the following uses, and when a “Supplemental Use
District” is created by the provisions of Article 3 of this chapter, for
such uses as may be permitted therein:



 



   1.   The following stores, shops or businesses when conducted in
accordance with the limitations hereafter specified:



 



   (a)   Types of uses:



 



   (1)   Any use permitted in the C1.5 Limited Commercial Zone by
Section 12.13.5 A.2. of this Code or in the C1 Limited Commercial Zone by
Section 12.13 A.2. of this Code. (Added by Ord. No. 156,924, Eff. 8/23/82.)



 



   (2)   Art or antique shop.



 



   (3)   Bird store or taxidermist, or a pet shop for the keeping or
sale of domestic or wild animals, other than those wild animals specified in
the definition of “Accessory Use” as set forth in Section 12.03 of this
Code, under an appropriate permit issued by the Department of Animal Services
as provided in Section 53.38 of this Code.   (Amended by Ord. No. 174,735,
Eff. 9/13/02.)



 



   (4)   Carpenter, plumbing or sheet metal shop.



 



   (5)   Catering shop.



 



   (6)   Feed and fuel store.



 



   (7)   Interior decorating or upholstering shop.



 



   (8)   Sign painting shop.



 



   (9)   Tire shop, provided the tire shop is in compliance with all of
the development standards and operating conditions set forth in Section 12.22
A.28. of this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 178,382, Eff. 3/24/07.)



 



   (10)   Restaurant, tea room or cafe (including entertainment other
than dancing) or a ground floor restaurant with an outdoor eating area. An
outdoor eating area for ground floor restaurants may be located anywhere
between the building and any required side or rear yard.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 165,403, Eff. 2/17/90.)



 



   (b)   Limitations:



 



   (1)   Any of the stores, shops or business listed in Paragraph (a)
may be operated as a retail business, i.e., where the majority of the
merchandise sold during each calendar month is sold at retail.



 



   As an integral part of any such retail business, there may be
manufacturing of products, or assembling, compounding, processing or treating
of materials; providing that the majority of such products and materials sold
during each calendar month are also sold at retail; that not more than five
persons are engaged in such manufacturing of products and assembling,
compounding, processing or treating of materials, and that such products,
materials and all activities in connection therewith, are not objectionable
due to odor, dust, smoke, noise, vibration or other causes.



 



   (2)   Any of the stores, shops or businesses listed in Paragraph (a)
may be operated as a wholesale business, i.e., where the majority of the
merchandise sold during each calendar month is sold at wholesale. The total
area of all space used for storage on the premises in connection with any one
such business shall not exceed 4,500 square feet. Such limitation shall
include all storage space within a building, and all open storage space as
provided for in subdivision 42 of this section. No manufacturing of products
nor assembly, compounding, processing or treating of materials shall be
conducted in connection therewith.



 



   (3)   In connection with the stores, shops or businesses listed in
Paragraph (a) all activities, other than incidental storage and outdoor
eating areas for ground floor restaurants, shall be conducted wholly within a
completely enclosed building. (Amended by Ord. No. 165,403, Eff. 2/17/90.)



 



   (4)   Any Pet Shop where four or more dogs that are each at least
four months of age are kept or maintained shall comply with the following: 
(Added by Ord. No. 186,372, Eff. 12/10/19.)



 



   (i)   Development Standards:



 




   a.   The total number of adult dogs and/or cats in a Pet Shop shall
not exceed one for every 45 square feet of floor area of the facility,
rounded up to the nearest whole number, up to a maximum of 40 adult dogs
and/or cats.




 




   b.   Animal boarding areas shall not occupy the first 25 percent of
the depth of the portion of the building used as a Pet Shop, or the first 25
feet, whichever is less, as measured from the front of the shop; and animal
boarding areas shall be separated from retail, grooming, or food storage
areas.  This limitation shall not apply to animal display areas.




 




   c.   Onsite activities related to keeping or maintaining animals,
including, but not limited to, grooming or feeding, shall be conducted wholly
within an enclosed building.




 




   d.   Outdoor dog runs and training activities are not permitted.




 



   (ii)   Operation Standards:



 




   a.   Animals shall not be left outside at any time.  This shall not
preclude dogs being brought in and out for walks.




 




   b.   Where a Pet Shop has an entrance on any side that abuts, has a
common corner with, or is across a public right-of-way from any residentially
zoned land, pets can only be brought through that entrance between 7am to 9pm
daily.




 




   c.   The operator shall submit the proposed dog walking route(s) to
the Department of Animal Services for review and approval.




 




   d.   The maximum number of dogs to be walked by one caretaker at the
same time shall be limited to the number that can be safely controlled by the
caretaker, not to exceed three dogs at one time.  Any dog defecation
generated during dog walking shall be removed immediately and disposed of
properly.




 




   e.   No unreasonable noise or odor shall be detectible beyond the
property line.  Sound proofing material and/ or air filtration systems shall
be used when such measures are deemed necessary by the Department of Animal
Services.




 



   2.   Advertising signs or structures and billboards.



 



   3.   (Amended by Ord. No. 168,516, Eff. 2/14/93.)  Amusement
enterprises, including a billiard or pool hall use, whether primary or
ancillary to the subject business, bowling alley, games of skill and science,
penny arcades (except those containing more than four coin or slug-operated
or electrically, electronically or mechanically controlled game machines),
shooting gallery, skating rink and the like, if all activities other than
incidental storage are conducted wholly within a completely enclosed
building, provided that:



 



   (a)   Billiard or pool hall use, whether primary or ancillary to the
subject business, other than those located in a mini-shopping center and
subject to conditional use approval pursuant to Section 12.24 W.27., shall
also be subject to the following conditions:  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492,
Eff. 10/10/00.)



 



   (1)   The billiard or pool hall use shall be located at least 500
feet from an A or R zone; and



 



   (2)   The billiard or pool hall use shall not be open for business
or operate between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.



 



   4.   Any use permitted in the C1.5 Limited Commercial Zone provided
that all regulations and limitations of the C1.5 Limited Commercial Zone are
complied with except as provided in this section. (Amended by Ord. No.
156,994, Eff. 9/25/82.)



 



   5.   Auditoriums having a seating capacity for not more than three
thousand (3,000) people.



 



   6.   (Amended by Ord. No. 169,584, Eff. 4/23/94.)  Automotive
fueling and service station, provided that:



 



   (a)   (Amended by Ord. No. 172,468, Eff. 4/1/99.)  All tire and
tube repairing, battery servicing, automotive lubrication, mechanical
adjustments and other vehicle maintenance activities shall be conducted
wholly within a building, except for:



   (1)   Those servicing operations which are normally made in the area
immediately adjacent to the pump island; and



 



   (2)   The following services when conducted within the first 18 feet
in depth measured perpendicular to the entire length of the building wall
containing a garage bay door, provided said area shall not displace any
required parking:



 



   (i)   electrical diagnostics;



 



   (ii)   battery charging and changing; and



 



   (iii)   tire removal and replacement, if the vehicle is elevated no
more than 12 inches off the ground measured to the bottom of the tire.  A
portable hoist may be used for this function.



 



   Except as provided in (2)(iii) above, automotive hoists of any type or
size shall be located or operated only inside a building.



 



   (b)   A six-foot high concrete or masonry wall, for the entire
length of the property line, shall be constructed on any lot line which abuts
an “A” or “R” Zone, or is separated therefrom only by an alley
provided, however, that for a distance  of 15 feet from the intersection of
the lot line with the street, said wall shall be only 3 feet 6 inches high,
and provided further, that where a lot line abuts an alley and the alley is
used for ingress and egress the wall may be omitted for a distance not to
exceed 25 feet from the intersection of said lot line with the street.  Such
walls shall be without openings and shall be of solid masonry or concrete
with a minimum nominal thickness of 6 inches.  Such walls shall be protected
from damage or destruction by automobiles by the erection or installation of
wheel blocks, guard rails or other appropriate devices on the property.



 



   (c)   No driveway approach shall be located within five feet of any
property line abutting in an “A” or “R” Zone, said distance to be
measured from the intersection of the lot line with the street to the far
side of the nearest side slope of the driveway.



 



   (d)   No part of any pump island shall be located within 12 feet of
any street.



 



   (e)   Display and/or storage of merchandise for sale, must be
confined to the rear half of the lot measured from all street frontages,
except that display of automotive merchandise for sale shall be permitted in
enclosed buildings, on the pump islands, in the open within three feet of the
exterior walls of the main building, and is not more than two portable or
semi-portable cabinets, provided each of said cabinets shall not exceed 6
feet in height, nor exceed 40 square feet in base area, and provided further
that said cabinets are located not less than 50 feet from all street lines. 
The display, rental and/or storage of household moving rental trucks and/or
utility rental trailers as defined in Section 12.03 of this Code shall also
be permitted in connection with an automobile service station, which is
currently active in dispensing gasoline and oil to the general public, and
pursuant to the following restrictions:



 



   (1)   If the adjoining property, on any two of the three sides of
the involved parcel not abutting the main street is in the C1.5, C2, C4 or C5
zone, then up to 10% of the lot area may be used for the display, rental,
and/or storage of household moving rental trucks or utility rental trailers.



 



   (2)   If the adjoining property, on any two of the three sides of
the involved parcel not abutting the main street is in the CM or a less
restrictive zone, then up to 25%  of the lot area may be used for the
display, rental, and/or storage of household moving rental trucks or utility
rental trailers.



 



   No storage, display or rental of household moving rental trucks or
utility rental trailers permitted by Subparagraphs 1 and 2 above shall take
place within 25 feet of a residential zone.



 



   Except for the storage, display or rental of household moving rental
trucks and utility rental trailers permitted herein, there shall be no
rental, storage or storage for rental purposes of equipment commonly used by
contractors or commercial vehicles which exceed a registered net weight of
5600 pounds.



 



   (f)   Except as permitted in Subsection (e) hereof, open-air storage
of merchandise or materials, including rubbish containers, used tires, used
batteries and items of a similar nature must be confined to a storage area
completely enclosed by a solid, non-combustible wall or fence (with necessary
self-closing gates) six feet in height.  Said storage area must be at least
150 square feet in area.  No merchandise or material shall be stored higher
than said wall or fence.



 



   (g)   Lights used to illuminate the service station site shall be
arranged so as to reflect the light away from the adjacent premises in an
“A” or “R” Zone and the light standard for such lights shall not
exceed 20 feet in height.



 



   (h)   (Repealed by Ord. No. 169,130, Eff. 12/16/93.)



 



   (i)   (Repealed by Ord. No. 169,130, Eff. 12/16/93.)



 



   (j)   Notwithstanding Section 12.24 W.27. of this Code, the
automotive fueling station use shall be in compliance with all of the
development standards and operating conditions set forth in Section 12.22
A.28. of this Code.  (Added by Ord. No. 178,382, Eff. 3/24/07.)



 



   7.   (Amended by Ord. No. 178,382, Eff. 3/24/07.)  Used automobile
and trailer sales area, provided the used automobile and trailer sales area
is in compliance with all of the development standards and operating
conditions set forth in Section 12.22 A.28. of this Code.



 



   New automobile sales area and a secondary used automobile sales area,
provided that all of the following conditions are met:



 



   (a)   The lot containing the automobile sales areas is located and
developed in compliance with the provisions set forth in Section 12.21 A.6.
of this Code.



 



   (b)   Any incidental repair of automobiles shall be done within a
building.



 



   8.   Baseball or football stadiums or boxing arenas, having a
seating capacity for not more than three thousand (3,000) people.



 



   9.   Automotive laundry or wash rack, provided the automotive
laundry or wash rack is in compliance with all of the development standards
and operating conditions set forth in Section 12.22 A.28. of this Code. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 178,382, Eff. 3/24/07.)



 



   10.   Church.  (Added by Ord. No. 145,250, Eff. 12/24/73.)



 



   11.   (Deleted by Ord. No. 171,687, Eff. 8/19/97.)



 



   12.   Film and tape editing and motion picture reconstruction,
provided that only safety film is used; and projection and screening rooms
associated with such uses shall seat no more than 100 persons.  (Added by
Ord. No. 162,514, Eff. 7/31/87.)



 



   13.   Circus or amusement enterprise of a similar type, transient in
character.



 



   14.   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.) Drive-in
businesses, including theaters, refreshment stands, restaurants, food stores,
and the like when not subject to the conditional use requirements of Section
12.24W.



 



   15.   Ferris wheels, carrousels, merry-go-rounds, and the like.



 



   16.   Film exchange.



 



   17.   Hospitals, sanitariums or clinics, except animal hospitals,
when located as required by Section 12.21D.



 



   18.   Ice storage house, not more than five (5) tons capacity.



 



   19.   Medical or dental clinics and laboratories.



 



   20.   Music conservatory or music instruction.



 



   21.   Newsstand.



 



   22.   Nursery, flower or plant, provided that all incidental
equipment and supplies, including fertilizer and empty cans, are kept within
a building.



 



   23.   Parcel delivery service, branch, if all activities including
storage and loading and unloading, are conducted within a completely enclosed
building.



 



   24.   Parking buildings and all buildings containing automobile
parking as primary or accessory uses. All buildings containing automobile
parking shall be subject to the requirements of Sections 12.21A5 and
12.12.1.5A of this Code. (Amended by Ord. No. 160,273, Eff. 9/16/85.)



 



   25.   Pony riding ring, without stables.



 



   26.   Printing, publishing or lithographing establishments.



 



   27.   Automotive repair, provided the automotive repair is in
compliance with all of the development standards and operating conditions set
forth in Section 12.22 A.28. of this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 178,382,
Eff. 3/24/07.)



 



   28.   (None)



 



   29.   Public services, including electric distributing substation,
fire or police station, telephone exchange, and the like.



 



   30.   Second-hand store, except pawnshops, if all activities other
than incidental storage are conducted wholly within a completely enclosed
building.  (Amended by Ord. No. 171,257, Eff. 10/4/96.)



 



   31.   (Repealed by Ord. No. 173,979, Eff. 6/29/01.)



 



   32.   Studios (except motion picture).



 



   33.   School (elementary or high), educational institution, or
private school. (Added by Ord. No. 145,250, Eff. 12/24/73.)



 



   34.   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.) Indoor swap
meets when authorized pursuant to the provisions of Section 12.24 W.42.



 



   35.   Trade school, if not objectionable due to noise, odor,
vibration, or other similar causes.



 



   36.   Wedding chapel, rescue mission or temporary revival church.



 



   37.   Massage parlor, where massage, alcohol rub, formentation,
electric or magnetic treatment, or similar treatment or manipulation of the
human body is administered by a medical practitioner, chiropractor,
acupuncturist, physical therapist or similar professional person licensed by
the State of California, and including an athletic club, health club, school,
gymnasium, state licensed cosmetology or barber establishment, reducing
salon, spa or similar establishment where massage or similar manipulation of
the human body is offered as an incidental or accessory service.  (Added by
Ord. No. 155,718, Eff. 8/6/81.)



 



   38.   Laundries or cleaning establishment, provided that:



 



   (a)   All activities other than incidental storage are conducted
wholly within a completely enclosed building;



 



   (b)   Not more than five persons are engaged in operating any
laundry or cleaning establishment, excluding personnel engaged wholly in
pressing, office and delivery work;



 



   (c)   The majority of the articles washed or cleaned during each
calendar month period are handled at retail;



 



   (d)   The operations are not objectionable due to odor, dust, smoke,
noise, vibration or other causes;



 



   (e)   Not more than two clothes cleaning units shall be used in any
clothes cleaning establishment, neither of which shall have a rated load
capacity of more than 40 pounds, or in lieu of the aforesaid two clothes
cleaning units there may be used one unit with a rated load capacity of more
than 40 pounds but it shall in no event exceed a rated load capacity of 80
pounds, and no cleaning fluid shall be used which is explosive or flammable
at temperatures below 138.5 degrees Fahrenheit.  (Amended by Ord. No.
143,291, Eff. 6/20/72.)



 



   39.   Miniature or pitch and putt golf courses, golf driving tees or
ranges, and similar commercial golf uses. (Amended by Ord. No. 144,365, Eff.
4/5/73, Oper. 9/1/73.)



 



   40.   Other uses similar to the above, as provided for in Sec. 12.21
A.2.



 



   41.   Conditional uses enumerated in Sec. 12.24 when the location is
approved pursuant to the provisions of said section. (Amended by Ord. No.
117,450, Eff. 12/18/60.)



 



   42.   (Amended by Ord. No. 162,336, Eff. 6/6/87.) Uses customarily
incident to any of the above uses, and accessory buildings, when located on
the same lot. Open storage of materials and equipment, including used
materials and equipment, shall be permitted only when incidental to the use
of an office, store or other commercial building located on the front portion
of the same lot, and provided that:



 



   (a)   Such storage is located on the rear one-half of the lot and is
confined to an area of not to exceed three thousand (3,000) square feet;



 



   (b)   No power driven excavating or road building equipment is
stored on the premises;



 



   (c)   The storage area is completely enclosed by a solid wall or
fence not less than six (6) feet in height with necessary solid gates of the
same height;



 



   (d)   No material or equipment is stored to a height greater than
that of the wall or fence enclosing the storage area; and



 



   (e)   There shall be no rental, storage or storage for rental
purposes of a commercial vehicle which exceeds a registered net weight of
5,600 pounds.



 



   The phrase “used materials and equipment” includes vehicles, boats,
or airplanes which are inoperable, wrecked, damaged or unlicensed, i.e. not
currently licensed by the Department of Motor Vehicles.



 



   43.   Automobile parking space required for dwellings and for
buildings other than dwellings, as provided for in Sec. 12.21 A.4.



 



   44.   Shelter for the homeless (as defined in Section 12.03 of this
Code) containing not more than 30 beds and designed to serve not more than 30
persons. Except within the Central City Community Plan area, any shelter for
the homeless established pursuant to this subdivision shall be located at
least 600 feet from another such shelter. The residential yard requirements
of this section shall not apply to a shelter in an existing non-residential
building. The minimum number of off-street parking spaces provided in
conjunction with such use shall comply with the requirements of Section 12.21
A.4.(w) of this Code. (Added by Ord. No. 161,427, Eff. 8/2/86.)



 



   45.   Motion picture, television, video and other media production,
no outdoor sets.  (Added by Ord. No. 172,106, Eff. 8/14/98.)



 



   B.   Restriction.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)  For any lot designated as Public, Quasi-Public,
Public/Quasi-Public Use, Other Public, or Open Space on the land use map of
the applicable community or district plan; any lot shown on the map as having
existing lakes, waterways, reservoirs, debris basins, or similar facilities;
any lot shown on the map as the location of a freeway right-of-way; and any
property annexed to the City of Los Angeles where a plan amendment was not
adopted as part of the annexation proceedings:



 



   Any of the uses permitted by Subsection A. of this section shall
require prior approval in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.24.1
of this Code.



 



   C.   Area.  (Amended by Ord. No. 144,365, Eff. 4/5/73, Oper.
9/1/73.) No building or structure nor the enlargement of any building or
structure shall be hereafter erected or maintained unless the following
yards, lot areas and loading spaces are provided and maintained in connection
with such building, structure or enlargement:



 



   1.   Front Yard – Not required.



 



   2.   Side and Rear Yards – Not required for buildings erected and
used exclusively for commercial purposes.



 



   For all portions of buildings erected and used for residential
purposes, side and rear yard conforming to the requirements of the  R4 Zone
(Section 12.11 C.2. and 3.) shall be provided and maintained at the floor
level of the first story used in whole or in part for residential purposes.



 



   3.   Lot Area – The lot area requirements of the R4 Zone (Section
12.11 C.4.) shall apply to all portions of buildings used for residential
purposes.



 



   4.   Loading Space – As required by Section 12.21 C.6., Exceptions
to area regulations are provided for in Section 12.22 C.



 



 



SEC. 12.16.  “C4”  COMMERCIAL ZONE.



 



   The following regulations shall apply in the “C4” Commercial Zone:



 



   A.   Use – No building, structure or land shall be used and no
building or structure shall be erected, structurally altered, enlarged, or
maintained except for the following uses, and when a “Supplemental Use
District” is created by the provisions of Article 3 of this Chapter, for
such uses as may be permitted therein:



 



   1.   (None).



 



   2.   (Amended by Ord. No. 158,741, Eff. 3/29/84.) Any use permitted
in the C2 Zone, provided that all regulations and limitations of said C2
Commercial Zone are complied with, except:



 



   (a)   (Amended by Ord. No. 177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.) The following
amusement enterprises:



 



   (1)   boxing arena;



 



   (2)   games of skill and science;



 



   (3)   merry-go-round, ferris wheel or carousel;



 



   (4)   penny arcade;




   (5)   shooting gallery;



 



   (6)   skating rink;



 



   (7)   Strip tease show.  This use shall include an adult cabaret,
as defined in Section 12.70 B. of this Code;



 



   (8)   billiard or pool hall;



 



   (9)   bowling alley;



 



   (10)   indoor swap meets, unless authorized pursuant to the
provisions of Section 12.24 W.42.; and



 



   (11)   other similar uses, but not including the conducting of any
game of bingo authorized pursuant to the provisions of Article 4.5 of Chapter
IV of this Code.



 



   (b)   (Repealed by Ord. No. 178,382, Eff. 3/24/07.)



 



   (c)   Baseball or football stadium.



 



   (d)   Carpenter shop.



 



   (e)   Circus or amusement enterprises of a similar type, transient
in character.



 



   (f)   Feed and fuel store.



 



   (g)   Hospital or sanitarium.



 



   (h)   Ice storage house.



 



   (i)   (Deleted by Ord. No. 171,756, Eff. 11/21/97.)



 



   (j)   Pawnshop.



 



   (k)   (Deleted by Ord. No. 171,756, Eff. 11/21/97.)



 



   (l)   Plumbing or sheet metal shop.



 



   (m)   Pony riding ring.



 



   (n)   Public services, including electric distributing substation



 



   (o)   Second hand store.



 



   (p)   Gymnasiums, health clubs and other similar uses.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.)



 



   (q)   Public auctions, except those ordered by a Court of
competent  jurisdiction.



 



   This ordinance is constitutional.



   People v. Feigenbaum, CR A 2704; 2791.



 



   (r)   Other uses similar to those hereby excepted, as determined by
the Administrator.



 



   (s)   (None)



 



   (t)   (Repealed by Ord. No. 178,382, Eff. 3/24/07.)



 



   (u)   (Repealed by Ord. No. 178,382, Eff. 3/24/07.)



 



   B.   Restriction.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)  For any lot designated as Public, Quasi-Public,
Public/Quasi-Public Use, Other Public, or Open Space on the land use map of
the applicable community or district plan; any lot shown on those maps as
having existing lakes, waterways, reservoirs, debris basins, or similar
facilities; any lot shown on those maps as the location of a freeway
right-of-way; and any property annexed to the City of Los Angeles where a
plan amendment was not adopted as part of the annexation proceedings:



 



   Any of the uses permitted by Subsection A of this section shall require
prior approval in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.24.1 of this
Code.



 



   C.   Area. (Amended by Ord. No. 148,783, Eff. 10/13/76.) – No
building or structure nor the enlargement of any building or structure shall
be hereafter erected or maintained unless the following yards, lot areas and
loading spaces are provided and maintained in connection with such building,
structure or enlargement.



 



   1.   Front Yard. Not required.



 



   2.   Side and Rear Yards. Not required for buildings erected and
used exclusively for commercial purposes.



 



   For all portions of buildings erected and used for residential
purposes, side and rear yards conforming to the requirements of the R4 Zone
(Section 12.11-C,2 and 3) shall be provided and maintained at the floor level
of the first story used for residential purposes.



 



   3.   Lot Area. The lot area requirements of the R4 Zone (Section
12.11-C,4) shall apply to all portions of buildings erected and used for
residential purposes. (Amended by Ord. No. 148,783, Eff. 10/13/76.)



 



   4.   Loading Space – As required by Section 12.21-C,6. Exceptions
to area regulations are provided for in Section 12.22-C.



 



 



SEC. 12.16.1.  “CW” CENTRAL CITY WEST SPECIFIC PLAN ZONE.



   (Added by Ord. No. 166,704, Eff. 4/3/91.)



 



   The following regulations shall apply in the “CW” Central City West
Specific Plan Zone:



 



   A.   Purpose.  The regulations set forth in this section are
intended to reflect the regulations contained in the Central City West
Specific Plan Ordinance.



 



   B.   Use.  No building, structure or land shall be used and no
building or structure shall be erected, structurally altered, enlarged or
maintained, except as permitted by Section 5 of the Central City West
Specific Plan Ordinance.



 



   C.   Area.  No building or structure nor the enlargement of any
building or structure shall be erected or maintained unless the yard, area
and loading spaces required by Section 5 of the Central City West Specific
Plan are provided and maintained in connection with the building, structure
or enlargement.



 



 



SEC. 12.16.2.  ADP ALAMEDA DISTRICT SPECIFIC PLAN ZONE.



   (Added by Ord. No. 171,130, Eff. 8/6/96.)



 



   The following regulations shall apply in the “ADP” Alameda District
Specific Plan Zone:



 



   A.   Purpose.  The regulations set forth in this Section are
intended to reflect the regulations contained in the Alameda District
Specific Plan Ordinance.



 



   B.   Use.  No building, structure or land shall be used and no
building or structure shall be erected, structually altered, enlarged or
maintained, except as permitted by Sections 6 and 7 of the Alameda District
Specific Plan Ordinance.



 



   C.   Area.  No building or structure nor the enlargement of any
building or structure shall be erected or maintained unless the yard, area
and loading spaces required by Section 7 of the Alameda District Specific
Plan Ordinance are provided and maintained in connection with the building,
structure or enlargement.



 



 



SEC. 12.16.3.  LASED LOS ANGELES SPORTS AND ENTERTAINMENT DISTRICT SPECIFIC
PLAN ZONE.



   (Added by Ord. No. 174,225, Eff. 10/13/01.)



 



   The following regulations shall apply in the “LASED” Los Angeles
Sports and Entertainment District Specific Plan Zone:



 



   A.   Purpose.  The purposes set forth in the Los Angeles Sports and
Entertainment District Specific Plan Ordinance are incorporated by this
reference into these regulations.



 



   B.   Use.  No building, structure or land shall be used and no
building or structure shall be erected, structurally altered, enlarged or
maintained, except as permitted by the Los Angeles Sports and Entertainment
District Specific Plan Ordinance.



 



   C.   Area.  No building or structure, nor the enlargement of any
building or structure, shall be erected or maintained unless the requirements
of the Los Angeles Sports and Entertainment District Specific Plan Ordinance
are met and maintained in connection with the building, structure or
enlargement.



 



 



SEC. 12.16.4.  CEC CONVENTION AND EVENT CENTER SPECIFIC PLAN ZONE.



   (Added by Ord. No. 182,268, Eff. 11/13/12.)



 



   The following regulations shall apply in the "CEC" Convention and Event
Center Specific Plan Zone:



 



   A.   Purpose.  The purposes set forth in the Convention and Event
Center Specific Plan Ordinance are incorporated by this reference into these
regulations.



 



   B.   Use.  No building, structure or land shall be used and no
building or structure shall be erected, structurally altered, enlarged or
maintained, except as permitted by the Convention and Event Center Specific
Plan Ordinance.



 



   C.   Area.  No building or structure, nor the enlargement of any
building or structure, shall be erected or maintained unless the height,
area, and parking requirements of the Convention and Event Center Specific
Plan Ordinance are met and maintained in connection with the building,
structure or enlargement.



 



 



SEC. 12.16.5.  USC-1A UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA UNIVERSITY PARK
CAMPUS SPECIFIC PLAN SUBAREA 1A ZONE.



   (Added by Ord. No. 182,343, Eff. 1/23/13.)



 



   The following regulations shall apply in the "USC-1A" University of
Southern California University Park Campus  Specific Plan Area 1 Zone:



 



   A.   Purpose.  The purposes set forth in the University of Southern
California University Park Campus Specific Plan Ordinance are incorporated by
this reference into these regulations.



 



   B.   Use.  No building, structure or land shall be used and no
building or structure shall be erected, structurally altered, enlarged or
maintained, except as permitted by provisions applicable to this zone set
forth in the University of Southern California University Park Campus
Specific Plan Ordinance.



 



   C.   Area.  No building or structure, nor the enlargement of any
building or structure, shall be erected or maintained unless the provisions
applicable to this zone set forth in the University of Southern California
University Park Campus Specific Plan Ordinance are met and maintained in
connection with the building, structure or enlargement.



 



 



SEC. 12.16.6.  USC-1B UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA UNIVERSITY PARK
CAMPUS SPECIFIC PLAN SUBAREA 1B ZONE.



   (Added by Ord. No. 182,343, Eff. 1/23/13.)



 



   The following regulations shall apply in the "USC-1B" University of
Southern California University Park Campus Specific Plan Subarea 1B Zone:



 



   A.   Purpose.  The purposes set forth in the University of Southern
California University Park Campus Specific Plan Ordinance are incorporated by
this reference into these regulations.



 



   B.   Use. No building, structure or land shall be used and no
building or structure shall be erected, structurally altered, enlarged or
maintained, except as permitted by provisions applicable to this zone set
forth in the University of Southern California University Park Campus
Specific Plan Ordinance.



 



   C.   Area.  No building or structure, nor the enlargement of any
building or structure, shall be erected or maintained unless the provisions
applicable to this zone set forth in the University of Southern California
University Park Campus Specific Plan Ordinance are met and maintained in
connection with the building, structure or enlargement.



 



 



SEC. 12.16.7.  USC-2 UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA UNIVERSITY PARK
CAMPUS SPECIFIC PLAN SUBAREA 2 ZONE.



   (Added by Ord. No. 182,343, Eff. 1/23/13.)



 



   The following regulations shall apply in the "USC-2" University of
Southern California University Park Campus Specific Plan Subarea 2 Zone:



 



   A.   Purpose.  The purposes set forth in the University of Southern
California University Park Campus Specific Plan Ordinance are incorporated by
this reference into these regulations.



 



   B.   Use.  No building, structure or land shall be used and no
building or structure shall be erected, structurally altered, enlarged or
maintained, except as permitted by provisions applicable to this zone set
forth in the University of Southern California University Park Campus
Specific Plan Ordinance.



 



   C.   Area.  No building or structure, nor the enlargement of any
building or structure, shall be erected or maintained unless the provisions
applicable to this zone set forth in the University of Southern California
University Park Campus Specific Plan Ordinance are met and maintained in
connection with the building, structure or enlargement.



 



 



SEC. 12.16.8.  USC-3 UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA UNIVERSITY PARK
CAMPUS SPECIFIC PLAN SUBAREA 3 ZONE.



   (Added by Ord. No. 182,343, Eff. 1/23/13.)



 



   The following regulations shall apply in the "USC-3" University of
Southern California University Park Campus Specific Plan Subarea 3 Zone:



 



   A.   Purpose.  The purposes set forth in the University of Southern
California University Park Campus Specific Plan Ordinance are incorporated by
this reference into these regulations.



 



   B.   Use.  No building, structure or land shall be used and no
building or structure shall be erected, structurally altered, enlarged or
maintained, except as permitted by provisions applicable to this zone set
forth in the University of Southern California University Park Campus
Specific Plan Ordinance.



 



   C.   Area.  No building or structure, nor the enlargement of any
building or structure, shall be erected or maintained unless the provisions
applicable to this zone set forth in the University of Southern California
University Park Campus Specific Plan Ordinance are met and maintained in
connection with the building, structure or enlargement.



 



 



SEC. 12.16.9.  PVSP PONTE VISTA AT SAN PEDRO SPECIFIC PLAN ZONE.



   (Added by Ord. No. 182,937, Eff. 4/21/14.)



 



   The following regulations shall apply in the "PVSP" Ponte Vista at San
Pedro Specific Plan Zone:



 



   A.   Purpose.  The purposes set forth in the Ponte Vista at San
Pedro Specific Plan Ordinance are incorporated by this reference into these
regulations.



 



   B.   Use.  No building, structure or land shall be used and no
building or structure shall be erected, structurally altered, enlarged or
maintained, except as permitted by the Ponte Vista as San Pedro Specific Plan
Ordinance.



 



   C.   Area.  No building or structure, nor the enlargement of any
building or structure, shall be erected or maintained unless the height,
area, and parking requirements of the Ponte Vista at San Pedro Specific Plan
Ordinance are met and maintained in connection with the building, structure
or enlargement.



 



 



SEC. 12.17.  “C5” COMMERCIAL ZONE.



 



   The following regulations shall apply in the “C5” Commercial Zone:



 



   A.   Use — No building, structure or land shall be used and no
building or structure shall be erected, structurally altered, enlarged or
maintained, except for the following uses, and, when a “Supplemental Use
District” is created by the provisions of Article 3 of this chapter, for
such uses as may be permitted therein:



 



   1.   Any use permitted in the “C2” Zone, provided that all
regulations of said zone are complied with;



 



   2.   Jewelry manufacturing, including manufacturing of products from
precious or semi-precious stones or metals. (Amended by Ord. No. 154,899,
Eff. 3/22/81.)



 



   3.   (Amended by Ord. No. 162,335, Eff. 6/6/87.)  Uses customarily
incident to any of the above uses, and accessory buildings, when located on
the same lot. Open storage of materials and equipment, including used
materials and equipment, shall be permitted only when incidental to the use
of an office, store or other commercial building located on the front portion
of the same lot, and provided that:



 



   (a)   Such storage is located on the rear one-half of the lot and is
confined to an area of not to exceed three thousand (3,000) square feet;



 



   (b)   No power driven excavating or road building equipment is
stored on the premises;



 



   (c)   The storage area is completely enclosed by a solid wall or
fence not less than six feet in height with necessary solid gates of the same
height; and



 



   (d)   No material or equipment is stored to a height greater than
that of the wall or fence enclosing the storage area.



 



   The phrase “used materials and equipment” includes vehicles, boats,
or airplanes which are inoperable, wrecked, damaged or unlicensed, i.e. not
currently licensed by the Department of Motor Vehicles.



 



   4.   Automobile parking space required for dwellings and for
buildings other than dwellings, as provided for in Section 12.21 A.4.



 



   B.   Restriction.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)  For any lot designated as Public, Quasi-Public,
Public/Quasi-Public Use, Other Public, or Open Space on the land use map of
the applicable community or district plan; any lot shown on the map as having
existing lakes, waterways, reservoirs, debris basins, or similar facilities;
any lot shown on the map as the location of a freeway right-of-way; and any
property annexed to the City of Los Angeles where a plan amendment was not
adopted as part of the annexation proceedings:



 



   Any of the uses permitted by Subsection A. of this section shall
require prior approval in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.24.1
of this Code.



 



   C.   Area.  (Amended by Ord. No. 144,365, Eff. 4/5/73, Oper.
9/1/73.) No building or structure nor the enlargement of any building or
structure shall be hereafter erected or maintained unless the following
yards, lot areas and loading spaces are provided and maintained in connection
with such building, structure or enlargement:



 



   1.   Yards – Not required for buildings erected and used
exclusively for commercial purposes;



 



   For all portions of buildings erected and used for residential
purposes, side and rear yards conforming to the requirements of the R4 Zone
(Section 12.11 C.2. and 3.) shall be provided and maintained at the floor
level of the first story used for residential purposes.



 



   2.   Lot Area – The lot area requirements of the R4 Zone (Section
12.11 C.4.) shall apply to all portions of buildings erected and used for
residential purposes. (Amended by Ord. No. 148,783, Eff. 10/13/76.)



 



   3.   Loading Space – As required by Section 12.21 C.6. Exceptions
to area regulations are provided in Section 12.22 C.



 



 



SEC. 12.17.1.  “CM” COMMERCIAL MANUFACTURING ZONE.



 



   The following regulations shall apply in the “CM” Commercial
Manufacturing Zone:



 



   A.   Use – No building, structure or land shall be used and no
building or structure shall be erected, structurally altered, enlarged or
maintained, except for the following uses, and, when a “Supplemental Use
District” is created by the provisions of Article 3 of this chapter for
such uses as may be permitted therein:



 



   1.   Any use permitted in the C2 Zone, provided that these uses are
conducted in full compliance with all of the regulations of the zone, except
that these uses may be conducted as wholesale businesses without limitation
on the floor area used for storage.  Provided further that residential uses
shall be permitted but shall be limited to shelters for the homeless, joint
living and work quarters, and those uses permitted in the R3 Multiple
Residential Zone, which R3 uses shall be in compliance with all the
regulations of the R3 Zone, except that front yard setbacks are not
required.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,133, Eff. 5/11/10.)



 



   Provided further that the following uses are prohibited in the CM Zone:



 



   (a)   churches;



 



   (b)   child care facilities or nursery schools unless permitted by
Section 12.22 A.3. or approved pursuant to the provisions of Section 12.24;



 



   (c)   fraternity or sorority houses or dormitories;



 



   (d)   hospitals or sanitariums unless approved pursuant to the
provisions of Section 12.24;



 



   (e)   museums or libraries;



 



   (f)   schools or educational institutions unless approved pursuant
to the provisions of Section 12.24;



 



   (g)   indoor swap meets, unless approved pursuant to the provisions
of Section 12.24.



 



   2.   The following manufacturing and industrial establishments and
uses, when conducted in accordance with the limitations hereinafter specified:



 



   (a)   Types of Uses:



 



   (1)   The manufacturing, assembling, compounding or treating of
articles or merchandise from the following previously prepared materials:
bone, canvas, cloth, felt, fur, glass, leather (except machine belting),
paper, plastics, shell, textiles and yarn;



 



   (2)   Assembly of electrical appliances, electronic instruments and
devices, and radios and phonographs, including the manufacture of small parts
only, such as coils, condensers, transformers, crystal holders, and the like;



 



   (3)   Ceramic products manufacturing, provided that the total
capacity of all kilns in any one establishment may not exceed eight cubic
feet and that there shall be no pulverizing of clay;



 



   (4)   Scientific instrument and equipment manufacturing or precision
machine shop.



 



   (5)   Addressograph service.



 



   (6)   Bakery or bakery goods distributor.



 



   (7)   Book bindery.



 



   (8)   Box lunch preparation or catering establishment.



 



   (9)   Candy, confectionery or ice cream manufacturing.



 



   (10)   Cosmetics, toiletries (except soap) or perfume manufacturing
or blending.



 



   (11)   Jewelry manufacturing, including manufacturing of products
from precious or semi-precious stones or metals.



 



   (12)   Laboratories, experimental, film, motion picture, research
and testing.



 



   (13)   (Deleted by Ord. No. 172,106, Eff. 8/14/98.)



 



   (14)   Optical goods manufacturing.



 



   (15)   Packaging business.



 



   (16)   Storage building or warehouse.



 



   (b)   Limitations:



 



   (1)   All activities other than incidental storage shall be
conducted wholly within a completely enclosed building.



 



   (2)   The building shall be so constructed, the machinery and
equipment shall be so installed and maintained, and the activity shall be so
conducted, that all noise, vibration, dust, odor and all other objectionable
factors, shall be so confined or reduced to the extent that no annoyance or
injury will result to persons residing in the vicinity. Whenever there is any
difficulty in determining the application of these provisions to any specific
case, the Department of Building and Safety shall make such determination.



 



   (3)   No motor exceed one H.P. shall be used to operate any lathe,
drill press, grinder, shaper, milling machine, saw, polisher or metal cutter;
and



 



   (4)   No punch press exceeding five tons rated capacity nor drop
hammer or automatic screw machine may be used.



 



   3.   Other uses similar to the above, as provided for in Section
12.21 A.2. of this Code.



 



   4.   (Amended by Ord. No. 162,335, Eff. 6/6/87.) Uses customarily
incident to the above uses, and accessory buildings, when located on the same
lot. Open storage of materials and equipment, including used materials and
equipment, shall be permitted only when incidental to the use of an office,
store or manufacturing building located on the front portion of the same lot,
and provided that:



 



   (a)   Such storage is located on the rear one-half of the lot and is
confined to an area of not to exceed three thousand (3,000) square feet;



 



   (b)   The storage area is completely enclosed by a solid wall or
fence not less than six feet in height with necessary solid gates of the same
height; and



 



   (c)   No material or equipment is stored to a height greater than
that of the wall or fence enclosing the storage area.



 



   The phrase “used materials and equipment” includes vehicles, boats,
or airplanes which are inoperable, wrecked, damaged or unlicensed, i.e. not
currently licensed by the Department of Motor Vehicles.



 



   5.   Automobile parking space required for dwellings and for
buildings other than dwellings, provided for in Section 12.21 A.4. of this
Code.



 



   B.   Restriction.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)  For any lot designated as Public, Quasi-Public,
Public/Quasi-Public Use, Other Public, or Open Space on the land use map of
the applicable community or district plan; any lot shown on the map as having
existing lakes, waterways, reservoirs, debris basins, or similar facilities;
any lot shown on the map as the location of a freeway right-of-way; and any
property annexed to the City of Los Angeles where a plan amendment was not
adopted as part of the annexation proceedings:



 



   Any of the uses permitted by Subsection A of this section shall require
prior approval in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.24.1 of this
Code.



 



   C.   Area – No building or structure nor the enlargement of any
building or structure shall be erected or maintained unless the following
yards, lot areas and loading spaces are provided and maintained in connection
with such building, structure or enlargement.



 



   1.   Yards.  (Amended by Ord. No. 144,365, Eff. 4/5/73, Operative
9/1/73.)  Not required for buildings erected and used exclusively for
commercial or industrial purposes.



 



   For all portions of buildings erected and used for residential
purposes, side yards and rear yards conforming to the requirements of the R4
Zone (Section 12.11 C.2. and 3.) shall be provided and maintained at the
floor level of the first story used for residential purposes.



 



   2.   Lot Area. The lot area requirements of the “R3” Zone
(Section 12.10 C.4.) shall apply to all portions of buildings erected and
used for residential purposes.  (Amended by Ord. No. 143,239, Eff. 5/7/72.)



 



   3.   Loading Spaces. Loading spaces shall be same as required by
Subsection C.6. of Section 12.21 of this Code.



 



   Exceptions to area regulations are provided for in Section 12.22 C.



 



 



SEC. 12.17.2.  “CM(GM)”  COMMERCIAL MANUFACTURING (GLENCOE/MAXELLA)
SPECIFIC PLAN ZONE.



   (Added by Ord. No. 169,103, Eff. 11/21/93.)



 



   The following regulations shall apply in the “CM(GM)” Commercial
Manufacturing (Glencoe/Maxella) Specific Plan Zone.



 



   A.   Purpose.  The regulations set forth in this section are
intended to reflect the regulations contained in the Glencoe/Maxella Specific
Plan Ordinance.



 



   B.   Use.  No building, structure or land shall be used and no
building or structure shall be erected, structurally altered, enlarged or
maintained, except as permitted by Sections 6 and 7 of the Glencoe/Maxella
Specific Plan Ordinance.



 



   C.   Area.  No building or structure nor the enlargement of any
building or structure shall be erected or maintained unless the yard
requirements set forth in Section 6 of the Glencoe/Maxella Specific Plan are
provided and maintained in connection with the building, structure or
enlargement.



 



 



SEC. 12.17.5.  “MR1” RESTRICTED INDUSTRIAL ZONE.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 148,969, Eff. 12/16/76.)



 



   The following purpose and regulations shall apply to “MR1”
Restricted Industrial Zone:



 



   A.   Purpose:



 



   1.   To protect industrial land for industrial use, and prohibit
unrelated commercial and other non-industrial uses.



 



   2.   To provide a reasonable range or interim uses in this zone, so
that land owners may receive income from temporary use, while the industrial
land reserve is being protected for future growth.



 



   3.   To upgrade industrial development standards,



 



   a.   so that industry will be a better neighbor to residences



 



   b.   to protect industrial investment against incompatible
residential, commercial and industrial uses, and           



 



   c.   to prevent future industrial blight.



 



   4.  To preserve industrial land for light industrial uses and to
provide for non- retail businesses which enhance the City’s employment
base.  (Added by Ord. No. 169,366, Eff. 4/1/94.)



 



   5.   To reflect and accommodate the shift in industrial land use
from traditional industrial activity to uses such as those involving record
management, Research and Development, information processing, electronic
technology, and medical research.  (Added by Ord. No. 169,366, Eff. 4/1/94.)



 



   B.   Use. (Amended by Ord. No. 148,969, Eff. 12/16/76.) No building,
structure or land shall be used and no building or structure shall be
erected, structurally altered, enlarged or maintained, except for the
following uses, or where a “Supplemental Use District” is created by the
provisions of Article 3 of this chapter, for such uses as may be permitted
therein.



 



   1.   Any use specified in Section 12.17.1-A,2, as first permitted in
the CM Zone provided that all regulations of said zone are complied with.



 



   2.   (Amended by Ord. No. 156,994, Eff. 9/25/82.)  Any use
permitted in the C2 Commercial Zone, provided that these uses are conducted
in accordance with all building enclosure and fence enclosure limitations of
said C2 zone, and further provided:



 



   (a)   Any such use is devoted primarily to the manufacturing of
products, or assembling, compounding, processing or treating of materials and
that all retail business conducted in connection with such use is only
incidental to the main use; or



 



   (b)   Any such use is devoted primarily to the development of
software and other computer or media-related products or services, or  (New
Sub-para. (b) Added by Ord. No. 172,106, Eff. 8/14/98.)



 



   (c)   Any such use is conducted only as an accessory use to the
main  use, and provides services for those persons employed on the
premises.  (Sub-para. (b) Renumbered Sub-para. (c) by Ord. No. 172,106, Eff.
8/14/98.)



 



   3.   The following uses:



 



   a.   Farming, nurseries, aviaries and apiaries.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 181,188, Eff. 7/18/10.)



 



   b.   Bank.



 



   c.   Clinic.



 



   d.   Laboratory or research and development center.



 



   e.   Offices, accessory to the primary industrial use of the lot,
and showrooms for products produced on the premises; provided that the total
floor area of such offices and showrooms does not exceed the floor area of
the primary industrial use, and that all of the merchandise sold during each
calendar month is sold at wholesale.  (Amended by Ord. No. 169,366, Eff.
4/1/94.)



 



   f.   Printing and publishing, wholesale.



 



   g.   Recreation facility, open or enclosed, as an accessory use
incidental to the primary industrial use of the lot, provided that such
recreation facility shall not exceed 10 percent of the total lot area.
(Amended by Ord. No. 159,916, Eff. 7/7/85.)



 



   h.   Restaurant (including cafe), as an accessory use incidental to
the primary industrial use of the lot and for the exclusive use of persons
employed on such lot and provided that there shall be no outdoor signs
advertising such restaurant. (Amended by Ord. No. 159,916, Eff. 7/7/85.)



 



   (i)   Corporate headquarters, record-keeping and computer support
facilities for the processing of retrievable information and systems
control.  (Added by Ord. No. 169,366, Eff. 4/1/94.)



 



   (j)   Office buildings if used only for offices of industrial firms,
industrial engineering firms, and other professional, administrative, and
clerical services needed by industries in the area.  (Added by Ord. No.
169,366, Eff. 4/1/94.)



 



   (k)   Facilities for the development and/or production and
manufacture of computer and media-related products and services, including
hardware.  (Added by Ord. No. 172,106, Eff. 8/14/98.)



 



   (l)   Wireless antennas, including the associated equipment
cabinets, located on the rooftops of buildings when established in
conformance with the standards contained in Section 12.21 A.21. of this Code,
and which are not located within a scenic parkway specific plan, scenic
corridor specific plan, or a roadway designated as a scenic highway within a
specific plan area; or on the rooftops of buildings that are designated on
the National Register of Historic Places, including Contributing Buildings in
National Register Historic Districts, the California Register of Historic
Resources, the City of Los Angeles List of Historic-Cultural Monuments, or a
Contributing Structure located in an Historic Preservation Overlay Zone
(HPOZ) that has been established pursuant to Section 12.20.3 of this Code. 
(Added by Ord. No. 177,120, Eff. 12/26/05.)



 



   4.   The following uses when conducted wholly within a completely
enclosed building, except for incidental storage, and conducted in accordance
with the limitations hereafter specified:



 



   a.   The manufacturing, compounding, processing or treating of such
products as drugs, pharmaceuticals, and perfumed toilet soap (no refining or
rendering of fats or oils).



 



   b.   The manufacturing, compounding, assembling, or treating of
articles or merchandise from the following previously prepared materials,
cork, feather, fibre, hair, horn, tobacco, and paint (not employing a boiling
process).



 



   c.   The manufacturing of ceramic products, provided that there is
no pulverizing of clay.



 



   d.   The manufacturing of concrete or cement products.



 



   e.   The manufacturing and maintenance of electrical and neon signs,
billboards, commercial advertising structures, light sheet metal products,
including heating and ventilating ducts and equipment, cornices, eaves and
the like.



 



   f.   The manufacturing of food products (except fish products,
sauerkraut, vinegar, yeast, or the rendering or refining of fats and oils),
provided that no noxious or offensive odors are permitted to emanate from the
premises.



 



   g.   The manufacture of machine belting from previously tanned
leather.



 



   h.   The manufacturing of musical instruments, toys, novelties, and
metal stamps.



 



   i.   The manufacturing of plastic, rubber or synthetic rubber
products,  such as washers, gloves, bathing caps, tableware, buttons,
stamps, mats, and the like, not involving the use of rolling mills of more
than 60 inches in length, or the use of Banbury Mills.



 



   j.   Blacksmith shops and machine shops not involving the use of
drop hammers, automatic screw machines, or punch presses with a rated
capacity of over 20 tons; provided, that punch presses with a rated capacity
of over 20 tons may be used, if they are located within the building and are
installed and cushioned in accordance with a plan which the Department of
Building and Safety has determined will satisfactorily prevent the emanation
of objectionable noise and vibration to adjoining property.



 



   k.   Distribution, plants, parcel delivery service, ice and cold
storage plants, a bottling plants.



 



   l.   Laundry, cleaning and dyeing works, and carpet and rug
cleaning  plants.



 



   m.   (None)



 



   n.   Truck repairing or overhauling; wholesale automobile
assembling, rebuilding or conditioning; wholesale rebuilding of automobile
parts accessories or assemblies; tire retreading or recapping; battery
manufacturing; and the like.



 



   o.   Veterinary, dog and cat hospitals, kennels, or facilities for
breeding and boarding of animals (no outside keeping of animals - no open
runs).  In no case, however, shall any new kennel or animal breeding and
boarding facility be constructed where any portion of the parcel is located
within 500 feet of a residential zone without obtaining a conditional use
permit pursuant to Section 12.24 of this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No.
169,013, Eff. 9/28/93.)



 



   p.   Woodworking shops and sash and door manufacturing including
only incidental mill work; provided that if a planner, router, sticker or
moulder is maintained, all doors and windows in the outside walls of the room
in which said machinery is located, shall be kept closed while said machinery
is in use.



 



   q.   Cannery or bottling plant (except fish products or sauerkraut).
(Amended by Ord. No. 148,969. Eff. 12/16/76.)



 



   r.   Cigarette factory.  (Amended by Ord. No. 148,969, Eff.
12/16/76.)



 



   s.   Electroplating works. (Amended by Ord. No. 148,969, Eff.
12/16/76.)



 



   t.   Furniture manufacturing (only incidental mill work - planers,
routers, stickers, and moulders operated in room with doors and windows
closed).  (Amended by Ord. No. 148,969, Eff. 12/16/76.)



 



   u.   (None)



 



   v.   Heat treating, case hardening, tempering, apply solid film
lubricants and similar processing of small parts used in manufacturing of
mechanical apparatus, devices or equipment.  (Amended by Ord. No. 148.969,
Eff. 12/16/76.)



 



   w.   Metal spinning.  (Amended by Ord. No. 148,969, Eff. 12/16/76.)



 



   5.   The following uses when conducted wholly within a completely
enclosed building or within an area enclosed on all sides with a solid wall
or solid fence not less than six feet in height, when no material or
equipment is stored to a height greater than that of the enclosing wall or
fence and the wall or fence is maintained as provided in Section 12.21-A.9:



 



   a.   Building material sales yard, including the sale of rock, sand,
gravel and the like as an incidental part of the main business, but excluding
concrete mixing.



 



   b.   Contractor’s equipment storage yard or plant.



 



   c.   Draying, freighting, or trucking yard or terminal.



 



   d.   Lumber yard, retail, including only incidental mill work;
provided that any planer, router, sticker or moulder used for such mill work
shall be maintained in a completely enclosed building or room within a
building, and that all doors and windows in the outside walls of such
building or room shall be kept closed while said machinery is in use.



 



   e.   Motion picture, television, video and other media production,
with outdoor sets.  (Amended by Ord. No. 172,106, Eff. 8/14/98.)



 



   f.   Open storage, not including the storage of impounded,
abandoned, partially dismantled, obsolete or wrecked automobiles or similar
equipment, or salvage, junk or scrap metal yards, provided no material or
equipment is stored to a height greater than that of the wall or fence
enclosing the storage area.



 



   g.   Parking of trucks or buses.



 



   h.   Public utility service yard or electrical receiving or
transforming station.



 



   i.   Small boat building, except shipbuilding.



 



   6.   Other uses similar to the above, as provided in Section
12.21-A.2 but not including uses which are or may become obnoxious or
offensive by reason of emission of odor, dust, smoke, noise, gas, fumes,
cinders, vibration, refuse matter or water-carried waste, as determined by a
Zoning Administrator.



 



   7.   Conditional uses enumerated in Section 12.24 when the location
is approved pursuant to the provisions of said section.



 



   8.   Public parking areas and parking buildings as primary or
accessory uses, and loading space required or provided in connection with the
permitted uses, as provided in Section 12.21-A and 12.21-C.6 of this Code.



 



   9.   Uses customarily incident to any of the above uses, and
accessory buildings when located on the same lot, provided:



 



   a.   A dwelling shall be considered to be a permissible accessory
building only when it is designed for and used solely by a watchman or
caretaker (including his family) of an industrial development or of a
permitted use which requires 24-hour supervision and is located on the same
lot with such development or use.



 



   b.   (Amended by Ord. No. 162,335, Eff. 6/6/87.) Open storage of
materials and equipment, including used materials and equipment, shall be
permitted only within an area enclosed on all sides with a solid wall or
fence not less than six feet in height. No material or equipment shall be
stored to a height greater than that of the wall or fence enclosing the
storage area, except that storage in lumber yards may be at a height greater
than said wall or fence.



 



   The phrase “used materials and equipment” includes vehicles, boats,
or airplanes which are inoperable, wrecked, damaged or unlicensed i.e. not
currently licensed by the Department of Motor Vehicles.



 



   c.   Signs or advertising structures shall indicate only the name,
occupation, or nature of activities conducted, services offered or the
product sold or manufactured on the premises.



 



   d.   Open storage of materials and equipment, including used
materials and equipment existing on a lot when it is zoned “MR,” shall be
enclosed as described herein. It shall be completely enclosed  within a
building or within an area enclosed on all sides with a solid wall or solid
fence of a height sufficient to screen the use from public view, but in no
event less than six feet in height within one year after a lot is zoned MR.
The phrase “used materials and equipment” includes vehicles, boats, or
airplanes which are inoperable, wrecked, damaged or unlicensed, i.e. not
currently licensed by the Department of Motor Vehicles. (Amended by Ord. No.
162,335, Eff. 6/6/87.)



 



   C.   Limitations.  (Amended by Ord. No. 146,030, Eff. 7/11/74.) 
All required buildings and enclosing walls or fences shall be so constructed,
the machinery and equipment shall be so installed and maintained, and the
activity shall be so conducted, that all noise, vibration, dust, odor and all
other objectionable factors, shall be confined or reduced to the extent that
no annoyance or injury will result to persons residing in the vicinity.



 



   Whenever there is any difficulty in determining the application of
these provisions to any specific case, the Department of Building and Safety
shall make such determinations.



 



   D.   Area.  (Amended by Ord. No. 148,969, Eff. 12/16/76.)  No
building or structure nor the enlargement of any building or structure shall
be hereafter erected or maintained unless the following yards and lot areas
are provided and maintained in connection with such building, structure or
enlargement:



 



   1.   Front Yard – On all lots 100 feet in depth or less, 5 feet;
on all lots in excess of 100 feet in depth, 15 feet. All front yards shall be
suitably landscaped and maintained except for necessary driveways and
walkways.



 



   2.   Side Yards – Side yards conforming to the requirements of the
“R4” Zone (Section 12.11-C.2) shall be provided and maintained in
connection with buildings erected and used principally for residential
purposes.



 



   3.   Rear Yard – No rear yard shall be required for buildings
erected and used exclusively for commercial or industrial purposes, a rear
yard conforming to the requirements of the “R4” Zone (Section 12.11-C.3)
shall be provided and maintained at the floor level of the first story used
in whole or in part for residential purposes.



 



   4.   Lot Area – The lot area required of the “R4” Zone
(Section 12.11-C.4) shall apply to buildings erected and used exclusively for
dwelling purposes. For buildings other than those erected and used
exclusively for dwelling purposes such requirements shall apply only to that
portion of a building used for dwelling purposes.



 



   5.   Loading Space – As required by Section 12.21-C.6. Exceptions
to area regulations are provided for in Section 12.22-C.



 



   E.   Fence Modification.  (Added by Ord. No. 146,030, Eff. 7/11/74.)



 



   1.   Authority of Director – The Director of Planning or his
authorized    representative, upon application, may defer the wall or fence
requirements of this section, for portions of walls or fences, in the
following instances:



 



   a.  Where adjoining property is located in the M2 or M3 Zone and is
developed with any of the uses first listed in Section 12.19-A or Section
12.20-A.



 



   b.   Where substantial fences, walls, buildings or geographic
features are located on the subject property or on adjacent property and
serve to enclose the subject use as well or more effectively than the wall or
fence required by this section.



 



   2.   Compliance – Should the use, fence, wall or building
providing justification for such modification be removed, such wall or fence
shall be provided in compliance with this section within six months from the
date of such removal.



 



   F.   Restriction.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)  For any lot designated as Public, Quasi-Public,
Public/Quasi-Public Use, Other Public, or Open Space on the land use map of
the applicable community or district plan; any lot shown on the map as having
existing lakes, waterways, reservoirs, debris basins, or similar facilities;
any lot shown on the map as the location of a freeway right-of-way; and any
property annexed to the City of Los Angeles where a plan amendment was not
adopted as part of the annexation proceedings:



 



   Any of the uses permitted by Subsection B of this section shall require
prior approval in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.24.1 of this
Code.



 



 



SEC. 12.17.5.5.  “CCS” CENTURY CITY SOUTH SPECIFIC PLAN STUDIO ZONE.



   (Added by Ord. No. 168,861, Eff. 8/7/93.)



 



   The following purpose and regulations shall apply in the CCS Century
City South Specific Plan Studio Zone:



 



   A.   Purpose.  The regulations set forth in this section are
intended to reflect the regulations contained in the Century City South
Specific Plan Ordinance.



 



   B.   Use.  No building, structure or land shall be used and no
building or structure shall be erected, structurally altered, enlarged or
maintained, except as permitted by Section 6B of the Century City South
Specific Plan Ordinance.



 



   C.   Area.  No building or structure, nor the enlargement of any
building or structure, shall be erected or maintained unless the yard and
area requirements of Section 6B of the Century City South Specific Plan are
provided and maintained in connection with the building, structure or
enlargement.



 



 



SEC. 12.17.6.  “M1” LIMITED INDUSTRIAL ZONE.



   (Renumbered by Ord. No. 148,969, Eff. 12/16/76.)



 



   The following regulations shall apply in the “M1” Limited
Industrial Zone:



 



   A.   Use.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.) No
building, structure or land shall be used and no building or structure shall
be erected, structurally altered, enlarged or maintained, except for the
following uses, and when a “Supplemental Use District” is created, for
those uses as may be permitted in that district:



 



   1.   Any use permitted in the MR1 Zone provided that all regulations
of the zone are complied with, except that front yard setbacks are not
required.



 



   2.   Any commercial use permitted in the C2 Zone except sanitariums
and hospitals, provided that these uses are conducted in accordance with all
building enclosure and fence enclosure limitations of the C2 Zone.  Pet
Shops in the M1 Zone or less restrictive zones are not required to comply
with the standards listed in Section 12.14 A.1.(b)(4).  (Amended by Ord. No.
186,372, Eff. 12/10/19.)



 



   3.   The following uses when conducted wholly within a completely
enclosed building, except for incidental storage.



 



   (a)   Foundry, except iron or brass; or those in which noxious fumes
or odors are produced.



 



   (b)   Poultry or rabbit killing incidental to a retail business on
the same premises.



 



   (c)   Rental of equipment commonly used by contractors, including
rental, storage, or storage for rental purposes of household moving rental
trucks and utility rental trailers or commercial vehicles of any weight.



 



   4.   Stadiums, arenas, auditoriums and the like, having a seating
capacity of more than 3,000 people.



 



   5.   Other uses similar to the above, as provided for in Section
12.21A2, but not including uses which are or may become obnoxious or
offensive by reason of omission of odor, dust, smoke, noise, gas, fumes,
cinders, vibration, refuse matter or water-carried waste, as determined by a
Zoning Administrator.



 



   6.   Uses customarily incident to any of the above uses, and
accessory buildings when located on the same lot, provided:



 



   (a)   A dwelling shall be considered to be a permissible accessory
building when it is designed for and used solely by a watchman or caretaker
(including his or her family) of an industrial development or of a permitted
use that requires a 24-hour supervision, and is located on the same lot with
the development or use;



 



   (b)   Open storage of materials and equipment, including used
materials and equipment, shall be permitted only within an area enclosed on
all sides with a solid wall or fence, no less than six feet in height with
necessary solid gates of the same height.



 



   The phrase “used materials and equipment” includes vehicles, boats,
or airplanes which are inoperable, wrecked, damaged or unlicensed, i.e., not
currently licensed by the Department of Motor Vehicles.



 



   7.   Automobile parking spaces required for dwellings and for
buildings other than dwellings, as provided for in Section 12.21A4.



 



   8.   Official Police Garages as designated by the Los Angeles Police
Commission for the storage of impounded, abandoned or partially dismantled
automobiles, subject to the following limitations:



 



   (a)   the use is located 300 feet or more from property in an A or R
zone;



 



   (b)   the use is conducted wholly within an area completely enclosed
with a solid masonry wall or solid fence no less than eight feet in height
with necessary solid gates of the same height;



 



   (c)   no dismantling of vehicles or crushing, smashing, baling or
reduction of metal takes place on the premises;



 



   (d)   all property adjacent to any street is landscaped to a minimum
depth of two feet measured at a right angle from the adjacent street, and
extending the full length of property contiguous to the street except for
area necessary for ingress and egress; and



 



   (e)   paved off-street parking spaces are provided for buildings as
required by Section 12.21 A, and in addition for all other portions of the
lot, other than public parking areas, as follows:



 



   (1)   for one or fewer acres, a minimum of six spaces;



 



   (2)   for more than one acre but not more than two acres, one space
for each 12,000 square feet of lot area; and



 



   (3)   for each acre exceeding two acres, one space for each acre of
lot area; and



 



   (f)   no material shall be stored to a height greater than the
height of the enclosing wall or fence.



 



   9.   Indoor swap meets when authorized pursuant to the provisions of
Section 12.24 W.42.



 



   10.   Storage buildings for household goods, including truck
rentals, provided the building or structure is more than 500 feet from an A
or R Zone or residential use as measured from the lot lines, and the building
or structure is no more than 37 feet in height.  (Added by Ord. No. 173,979,
Eff. 6/29/01.)



 



   11.   Wireless telecommunication facilities, including radio and
television transmitters, which meet all the requirements of the wireless
telecommunication facilities standards set forth in Section 12.21 A.20. of
this Code, except when located across the street from, abutting, or adjoining
a residential use or A or R Zone, including the RA zone.  (Added by Ord. No.
174,132, Eff. 9/3/01.)



 



   12.   Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 12.22 A.28. of this
Code to the contrary, a primary used automobile and trailer sales area,
provided that the automobile and trailer sales area is located and developed
in compliance with the provisions of Section 12.21 A.6. of this Code, and
that any incidental repair of automobiles or trailers is conducted wholly
within a building. (Added by Ord. No. 178,382, Eff. 3/24/07.)



 



   13.   (Added by Ord. No. 178,382, Eff. 3/24/07.)  Notwithstanding
the provisions of Section 12.22 A.28. of this Code to the contrary,
automotive repair, provided that all of the following conditions are met:



 



   (a)   The lot containing the automotive repair use is located more
than 500 feet from any school, lot with a Certificate of Occupancy for a
one-family dwelling, multiple-family dwelling, or mixed use project
containing a residential use, or an A or R zone.  If the lot is located 500
feet or less from any school, lot with a Certificate of Occupancy for a
one-family dwelling, multiple-family dwelling, or mixed use project
containing a residential use, or an A or R zone, automotive repair is
prohibited unless approved pursuant to the provisions of Section 12.24 W.4.
of this Code.



 



   (b)   All automotive spray painting shall be conducted in full
compliance with the provisions of Article 7, Chapter V of this Code,
regulating these installations; provided further, that any spray painting
shall be done within a building.



 



   (c)   All other operations shall be conducted wholly within a
building enclosed on at least three sides, except for the following
activities, which may be conducted within the first 18 feet in depth in front
of the garage bay door measured perpendicular to the entire length of the
building wall containing a garage bay door, provided that this area does not
displace any required parking:



 



   (1)   electrical diagnostics;



 



   (2)   battery charging and changing;



 



   (3)   tire removal and replacement, so long as the vehicle is
elevated no more that 12 inches off the ground measured to the bottom of the
tire.  A portable hoist may be used for this function only.



 



   (d)   Except as provided in Paragraph (c)(3) above, automotive
hoists, of any type or size, shall be located and operated only inside a
building enclosed on at least three sides.



 



   (e)   A minimum of 500 square feet of storage area shall be provided
(open storage shall comply with Section 12.14 A.42. of this Code);



 



   (f)   Notwithstanding Paragraphs (a) and (c) of this subdivision, an
automotive sound shop or automotive alarm shop shall be permitted if it
complies with the following:



 



   (1)   all operations are wholly conducted within a fully enclosed
building; and



 



   (2)   no portion of the building or its associated parking area
shall be within 50 feet of any school, lot with a Certificate of Occupancy
for a one-family dwelling, multiple-family dwelling, or mixed use project
containing a residential use, or an A or R zoned lot.



 



   14.   (Added by Ord. No. 178,382, Eff. 3/24/07.)  Notwithstanding
the provisions of Section 12.22 A.28. of this Code to the contrary,
automotive laundry or wash rack, in which power driven or steam cleaning
machinery is used or any coin-operated automotive laundry or wash rack.



 



   (a)   Any automotive laundry or wash rack, in which power driven or
steam cleaning machinery is used shall maintain noise levels below the levels
provided in Table II of Section 111.03 of this Code.



 



   (b)   The comparison between the noise emanating from the automotive
laundry or wash rack and from Table II shall be made in the manner set forth
in Section 111.02(a) of this Code.



 



   (c)   Every wash rack shall be constructed or arranged so that
entrances, exits, and openings shall not face any residentially zoned
property within 100 feet of the entrances, exits or openings.



 



   B.   Restriction.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)  For any lot designated as Public, Quasi-Public,
Public/Quasi-Public Use, Other Public, or Open Space on the land use map of
the applicable community or district plan; any lot shown on the map as having
existing lakes, waterways, reservoirs, debris basins, or similar facilities;
any lot shown on the map as the location of a freeway right-of-way; and any
property annexed to the City of Los Angeles where a plan amendment was not
adopted as part of the annexation proceedings:



 



   Any of the uses permitted by Subsection A. of this section shall
require prior approval in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.24.1
of this Code.



 



   C.   Area – No building or structure nor the enlargement of any
building or structure shall be hereafter erected or maintained unless the
following yard and lot areas are provided and maintained in connection with
such building, structure or enlargement:



 



   1.   Front Yard –  Not required.



 



   2.   Side Yard –  Side yard conforming to the requirements of the
“R4” Zone (Sec. 12.11 C.2.) shall be provided and maintained in
connection with buildings erected and used principally for residential
purposes.



 



   3.   Rear Yard – No rear yard shall be required for buildings
erected a used exclusively for commercial or industrial purposes. For
buildings other than those erected and used exclusively for commercial or
industrial purposes, a rear yard conforming to the requirements of the
“R4” Zone (Sec. 12.11 C.3.) shall be provided and maintained at the floor
level of the first story used in whole or in part for dwelling purposes.



 



   4.   Lot Area – The lot area requirement of the “R4” Zone
(Sec. 12.11 C.4.) shall apply to buildings erected and used exclusively for
dwelling purposes. For buildings other than those erected and used
exclusively for dwelling purpose such requirements shall apply only to that
portion of a building used for dwelling purposes.



 



   5.   Loading Space – as required by Sec. 12.21 C.6.



 



   Exception to Area relations are provided for in Sec. 12.22 C.



 



 



SEC. 12.18.  “MR2” RESTRICTED LIGHT INDUSTRIAL ZONE.



   (Renumbered by Ord. No. 148,969, Eff. 12/16/76.)



 



   The following purpose and regulations shall apply in the “MR2”
Restricted Light Industrial Zone.



 



   A.   Purpose.



 



   1.   To protect industrial land for industrial use, and prohibit
unrelated  commercial and other non-industrial uses.



 



   2.   To provide a reasonable range of interim uses in the zone, so
that land owners can receive income from temporary use, while the industrial
land reserve is being protected for future growth.



 



   3.   upgrade industrial development standards:



 



   a.   so that industry will be a better neighbor to residences,



 



   b.   to protect industrial investment against incompatible industry,
and



 



   c.   to prevent future industrial slums.



 



   4.   To preserve industrial land for light industrial uses and
non-retail businesses which will enhance the City’s employment base. 
(Added by Ord. No. 169,366, Eff. 4/1/94.)



 



   5.   To reflect and accommodate the shift in industrial land uses
from traditional industrial activity to uses such as those involving record
management, Research and Development, information processing, electronic
technology, and medical research.  (Added by Ord. No. 169,366, Eff. 4/1/94.)



 



   B.   Use.  (Amended by Ord. No. 148,969, Eff. 12/16/76.) – No
structure or land shall be used and no building or structure shall be
erected, structurally altered, enlarged or maintained, except for the
following uses, or, where a “Supplemental Use District” is created by the
provisions of Article 3 of this chapter, for such uses as may be permitted
therein:



 



   1.   Any use permitted in the MR1 Zone provided that all regulations
of said zone are complied with.



 



   2.   The following uses:



 



   a.   Bag cleaning (employing tabular vacuum cleaning and efficient
dust collecting equipment - in completely enclosed building).



 



   b.   Bolt or screw thread rolling or cutting.



 



   c.   Bottle washing, collection or storage (in a completely enclosed
building).



 



   d.   Box factory or cooperage.



 



   e.   Brewery.



 



   f.   Canvas, cloth, cork, excelsior or textile manufacturing.



 



   g.   Carpet or rug manufacturing.



 



   h.   Coil spring manufacturing (inner springs for mattresses and
upholstered furniture using only coiling and knotting machines - light weight
wire).



 



   i.   Die casting.



 



   j.   Electrical equipment manufacturing.



 



   k.   Enameling works.



 



   l.   Fencing, woven wire, manufacturing (from previously fabricated
material - no galvanizing).



 



   m.   Insecticide or pesticide blending or mixing (previously
manufactured ingredients - cold process).



 



   n.   Liquid fertilizer manufacturing (from previously manufactured
chemicals and other inorganic materials by dissolving in water).



 



   o.   Lubricating oil, canning and packaging.



 



   p.   Match manufacturing, safety paper only.



 



   q.   Mortuary or mortuary schools, embalming business or undertaking
business.



 



   r.   Pickle, yeast or vinegar manufacturing (in a completely
enclosed building).



 



   s.   Roll forming of metal, cold process.



 



   t.   Aircraft factory. (Added by Ord. No. 148,969, Eff. 12/16/76.)



 



   u.   Animal keeping or raising (no hog ranches having more than 
5  swine or stockyards or cattle-feeding yard). In no case, however, shall
any new animal kennel be constructed within 500 feet of a residential zone
without issuance of a conditional use permit. (Amended by Ord. No. 150,138,
Eff. 10/31/77.)



 



   v.   Furniture manufacturing. (Added by Ord. No. 148,969, Eff.
12/16/76.)



 



   w.   Oxygen or nitrogen manufacturing, compressing and bulk storage
in tanks. (Added by Ord. No. 148,969, Eff. 12/16/76.)



 



   x.   Screw machine products manufacturing. (Added by Ord. No.
148,969, Eff. 12/16/76.)



 



   y.   Storage, sorting, collecting or baling of rags, paper, scrap
metal  or junk, when conducted wholly within an enclosed building. (Added by
Ord. No. 148,969, Eff. 12/16/76.)



 



   3.   The following uses when conducted wholly within a completely
enclosed building or within an area enclosed on all sides with a solid wall
or solid fence not less than eight feet in height, when no materials or
equipment is stored to a height greater than that of the enclosing wall or
fence (except that in lumber yards lumber may be stored to a height greater
than said wall or fence) and the wall or fence is maintained as provided in
Section 12.21-A,9.  (Amended by Ord. No. 148,969, Eff. 12/16/76.)



 



   a.   Building materials salvage yard.



 



   b.   Monument works.



 



   c.   Planing mill or wholesale lumber yards.



 



   d.   (Deleted by Ord. No. 171,687, Eff. 8/19/97.)



 



   4.   Other uses similar to the above as provided for in Section
12.21-A.2 but not including uses which are or may become obnoxious or
offensive by emission of odor, dust, smoke, noise, gas, fumes, cinders,
vibration, refuse matter or water-carried waste, as determined by a Zoning
Administrator.



 



   5.   Uses customarily incident to any of the above uses, and
accessory buildings when located on the same lot, provided:



 



   a.   A dwelling shall be considered to be a permissible accessory
building only when it is designed for and used solely by a watchman or
caretaker (including his family) of an industrial development or of a
permitted use which requires 24-hour supervision and is located on the same
lot with such development or use.



 



   b.   Open storage of materials and equipment, including used
materials and equipment, shall be permitted only within an area enclosed on
all sides with a solid wall or solid fence not less than eight feet in height
with necessary solid gates of the same height. No material or equipment shall
be stored to a height greater than that of the wall or fence enclosing the
storage area. However, storage in lumber yards, other than storage of used
materials or equipment may be at a height greater than said wall or fence.
The phrase “used materials and equipment” includes vehicles, boats, or
airplanes which are inoperable, wrecked, damaged or unlicensed, i.e. not
currently licensed by the Department of Motor Vehicles. (Amended by Ord. No.
162,335, Eff. 6/6/87.)



 



   c.   Signs or advertising structures hall indicate only the name,
occupation or nature of activities conducted, services offered or the
products sold or manufactured on the premises.



 



   d.   Open storage of materials and equipment, including used
materials and equipment, existing on a lot when it is zoned “MR,” shall
be enclosed as described herein. It shall be completely enclosed within a
building or within an area enclosed on all sides with a solid wall or solid
fence, including necessary solid gates, of a height sufficient to screen the
use from public view, but in no event less than eight feet in height, within
one year after the lot is zoned MR. The phrase “used materials and
equipment” includes vehicles, boats, or airplanes which are inoperable,
wrecked, damaged or unlicensed, i.e. not currently licensed by the Department
of Motor Vehicles.  (Amended by Ord. No. 162,335, Eff. 6/6/87.)



 



   6.   Public parking areas and parking buildings as primary or
accessory uses, and loading space required or provided in connection with the
permitted uses, as provided in Sections 12.21-A and 12.21-C.6 of this Code.



 



   C.   Area.  (Amended by Ord. No. 148,969, Eff. 12/16/76.)  No
building or structure nor the enlargement of any building or structure shall
be hereafter erected or maintained unless the following yards and lot areas
are provided and maintained in connection with such building, structure or
enlargement.



 



   1.   Front Yard – On all lots 100 feet in depth or less, 5 feet;
on all lots in excess of 100 feet in depth, 15 feet. All front yards shall be
suitably landscaped and maintained except for necessary driveways and
walkways.



 



   2.   Side Yard – Side yards conforming to the requirements of the
“R4” Zone (Section 12.11-C.2) shall be provided and maintained in
connection with buildings erected and used principally for residential
purposes.



 



   3.   Rear Yard – No rear yard shall be required for buildings
erected and used exclusively for commercial or industrial purposes. For
buildings other than those erected and used exclusively for commercial or
industrial purposes, a rear yard, conforming to the requirements of the
“R4” Zone (Section 12.11-C.3) shall be provided and maintained at the
floor level of the first story used in whole or in part for residential
purposes.



 



   4.   Lot Area – The lot area requirements of the “R5” Zone
(Section 12.12-C.4) shall apply to buildings erected and used exclusively for
dwelling purposes. For buildings other than those erected and used
exclusively for dwelling purposes such requirements shall apply only to that
portion of a building used for dwelling purposes.



 



   D.   Fence Modifications. Same as the MR1 Zone and subject to the
same limitations of Section 12.17.5-E. (Added by Ord. No. 146,030, Eff.
7/11/74.)



 



   E.   Restriction.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)  For any lot designated as Public, Quasi-Public,
Public/Quasi-Public Use, Other Public, or Open Space on the land use map of
the applicable community or district plan; any lot shown on the map as having
existing lakes, waterways, reservoirs, debris basins, or similar facilities;
any lot shown on the map as the location of a freeway right-of-way; and any
property annexed to the City of Los Angeles where a plan amendment was not
adopted as part of the annexation proceedings:



 



   Any of the uses permitted by Subsection B of this section shall require
prior approval in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.24.1 of this
Code.



 



 



SEC. 12.18.1.  “WC” WARNER CENTER SPECIFIC PLAN ZONE.



   (Added by Ord. No. 168,870, Eff. 8/9/93.)



 



   The following regulations shall apply in the “WC” Warner Center
Specific Plan Zone:



 



   A.   Purpose.  The regulations set forth in this section are
intended to reflect the regulations contained in the Warner Center Specific
Plan Ordinance.



 



   B.   Use.  No building, structure or land shall be used and no
building or structure shall be erected, structurally altered, enlarged or
maintained, except as permitted by Sections 7 and 10 of the Warner Center
Specific Plan Ordinance.



 



   C.   Area.  No building or structure shall be erected or maintained
nor shall the enlargement of any building or structure be erected or
maintained unless the yard, lot area, setback and loading spaces required by
Sections 7 and 10 of the Warner Center Specific Plan are provided and
maintained in connection with the building, structure or enlargement.



 



 



SEC. 12.19.  “M2” LIGHT INDUSTRIAL ZONE.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 146,030, Eff. 7/11/74.)



 



   The following regulations shall apply to the “M2” Light Industrial
Zone:



 



   A.  Use – No building, structure or land shall be used and no
building or structure shall be erected, structurally altered, enlarged, or
maintained, except for the following uses, and, when a “Supplemental Use
District” is created by the provisions of Article 3 of this chapter, for
such uses as may be permitted therein:



 



   1.   Any open lot use permitted in an “A” or “R” Zone, which
does not involve the use of buildings or structures other than accessory
buildings incident to the use of the land.



 



   1.5.   (Amended by Ord. No. 146,030, Eff. 7/11/74.) Any use
permitted in the M1 or MR2 Zone, whether conducted within or without a
building or enclosed area, but not including any of the following:



 



   (a)   Any building, structure or portion thereof permitted in any
“R” Zone, other than accessory buildings which are incidental to the use
of the land.



 



   (b)   Any building containing dwelling units or guest rooms.



 



   (c)   The storage, display, processing or sales of second-hand
boxes, crates, barrels, drums, furniture, or household appliances unless
conducted in accordance with the limitations specified in Subsection  A.4(b)
of this section.



 



   (d)   The storage of impounded, abandoned, partially dismantled,
obsolete or wrecked automobiles unless conducted in accordance with the
limitations specified in Subsection A.4(b) of this section.



 



   (e)   The open air sale of merchandise from a privately owned vacant
lot or drive-in theater. (Added by Ord. No. 156,684, Eff. 6/19/82.)



 



   (f)   Concrete or cement products manufactured in the open. (Added
by Ord. No. 158,939, Eff. 6/21/84.)



 



   (g)   The open storage of materials and equipment, including used
materials and equipment unless conducted in accordance with the limitations
specified in Subsection A.4(b) of this section. The phrase “used materials
and equipment” includes vehicles, boats, or airplanes which are inoperable,
wrecked, damaged or unlicensed, i.e. not currently licensed by the Department
of Motor Vehicles. (Added by Ord. No. 162,335. Eff. 6/6/87.)



 



   (h)   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.) Indoor swap
meets unless authorized pursuant to the provisions of Section 12.24W42.



 



   2.   (None)



 



   3.   Airport or aircraft landing field.



 



   3.5.   (None)



 



   4.   The following uses when conducted in accordance with the
limitations hereafter specified:



 



   (a) Types of Use. (Amended by Ord. No. 152,770, Eff. 9/15/79.)



 



   (1)   Automobile dismantling yard.



 



   (2)   Junk yard.



 



   (3)   Storage, display, processing or sales of second-hand furniture
and appliances.



 



   (4)   Storage, display, processing, or sales of second-hand boxes,
crates, barrels, drums, or similar containers. (Added by Ord. No. 158,939,
Eff. 6/21/84.)



 



   (5)   The open storage of materials and equipment, including used
materials and equipment. The phrase “used materials and equipment”
includes vehicles, boats, or airplanes which are inoperable, wrecked, damaged
or unlicensed, i.e. not currently licensed by the Department of Motor
Vehicles. (Added by Ord. No. 162,335, Eff. 6/ 6/87.)



 



   (b)   Limitations.



 



   (1)   No crushing, smashing, baling or reduction of metal is
conducted on the premises unless such is conducted without producing
substantial amounts of dust and is so conducted that the noise emanating
therefrom, as measured from any point on adjacent property shall be no more
audible than the noise emanating from ordinary street traffic and from other
commercial or industrial uses measured at the same point on said adjacent
property; provided, however, that such noise shall be permitted in the event
it does not exceed the levels provided in Section 111.03 of this Code as
measured from any point on adjacent property in an “A”, “R”, “C”,
“P”  or “M” zone. (Amended by Ord. No. 156,363, Eff. 3/29/82.)



 



   (2)   The use is conducted wholly within an enclosed building or 
within an area completely enclosed with a solid masonry wall not less than
eight feet in height with necessary solid gates of like height; or within an
area completely enclosed with a solid fence not less than eight feet in
height with necessary solid gates of like height. (Amended by Ord. No.
137,470, Eff. 11/29/68.)



 



   (3)   In the event the use is conducted in an area enclosed by a
wall or fence as hereinabove provided, no material shall be stored to a
height greater than the height of the enclosing wall or fence, except that
the storage of empty second-hand wooden boxes and at when located at least
300 feet from a more restrictive zone or use, may be permitted an additional
foot above the enclosing wall or fence for each two feet such boxes are set
back from said enclosing wall or fence; provided that such stacking shall not
exceed 18 feet in height. In no event shall such stacks violate the
limitations imposed by Section 57.315.4.2 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.
(Amended by Ord. No. 165,342, Eff. 1/19/90.)



 



   (4)   (Amended by Ord. No. 145,040, Eff. 1/15/73.)  Paved off-
street parking spaces are provided for buildings as required by Section
12.21-A of this Code, and for all other portions of the lot, other than
public parking areas, as follows:



 



   (i)   For up to the first acre a minimum of six spaces;



 



   (ii)   For the second acre – one space for each 12,000 square feet
of lot area; and



 



   (iii)   For each acre exceeding two – one space for each acre of
lot area.



 



   (5)   In the event the use is conducted in an area enclosed by a
wall or fence as hereinabove provided, all property adjacent to any street is
landscaped to a minimum depth of two feet measured at a right angle from the
adjacent street and extending the full length of the property contiguous to
such street except for areas necessary for ingress and egress. (Amended by
Ord. No. 137,470, Eff. 11/29/68.)



 



   5.   Cemetery, columbarium, crematory or mausoleum.



 



   6.   Circus quarters, menagerie or keeping of wild animals.



 



   7.   (None)



 



   8.   Morgue.



 



   9.   Riding academy or stable.



 



   10.   Rifle range.



 



   11.   (None)



 



   12.   Other uses similar to the above, as provided in Section 12.21
A.2. but not including use which are or may become obnoxious or offensive by
reason of emission of odor, dust, smoke, noise, gas, fumes, cinders,
vibration, refuse matter or water-carried waste, as determined by the
Administrator.



 



   13.   Uses customarily incident to any of the above uses and
accessory buildings, when located on the same lot. A dwelling shall be
considered to be a permissible accessory building only when it is designed
for a used solely by a watchman or caretaker (including his family) of an
industrial development or of a permitted use which requires 24-hour
supervision and is located on the same lot with such development or use.



 



   14.   Automobile parking space and loading space required in
connection with permitted uses, as provided for in Section 12.21 A. and
Section 12.21 C.6.



 



   15.   Curing, composting and mulching facilities, including all
accessory buildings, as well as chipping and grinding facilities when
conducted within a wholly enclosed building.  (Added by Ord. No. 170,054,
11/13/94.)



 



   16.   Cargo container storage yard, when located in whole or in part
within the boundaries of the Port of Los Angeles Community Plan area. (Added
by Ord. No. 177,244, Eff. 2/18/06.)



 



   B.   Restriction.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)  For any lot designated as Public, Quasi-Public,
Public/Quasi-Public Use, Other Public, or Open Space on the land use map of
the applicable community or district plan; any lot shown on the map as having
existing lakes, waterways, reservoirs, debris basins, or similar facilities;
any lot shown on the map as the location of a freeway right-of-way; and any
property annexed to the City of Los Angeles where a plan amendment was not
adopted as part of the annexation proceedings:



 



   Any of the uses permitted by Subsection A. of this section shall
require prior approval in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.24.1
of this Code.



 



   C.   Area.  No building or structure nor the enlargement of any
building or structure shall be hereafter erected or maintained unless the
following yards and lot areas are provided and maintained in connection with
such building, structure or enlargement.



 



   1.   Front Yard – Not required.



 



   2.   Side Yard – Side yards conforming to the requirements of the
“R5” Zone (Sec. 12.12 C.2.) shall be provided and maintained in
connection with buildings erected and used principally for residential
purposes.



 



   3.   Rear Yard – No rear yard shall be required for buildings
erected used exclusively for commercial or industrial purposes. For buildings
other than those erected and used exclusively for commercial or industrial
purposes, a rear yard conforming to the requirements of the “R4” Zone
(Sec. 12.11 C.3.) shall be provided and maintained at the floor level of the
first story used in whole or in part for dwelling purposes.



 



   4.   Lot Areas – The lot area requirements of the “R5” Zone
Sec. 12.12 C.4. shall apply to buildings erected and used exclusively for
dwelling purposes. For buildings other than those erected and used
exclusively for dwelling purposes such requirements shall apply only to that
portion of a building used for dwelling purposes.



 



   5.   Loading Spaces – as required by Sec. 12.21 C.6.



 



   Exceptions to area regulations are provided for in Sec. 12.22 C.



 



 



SEC. 12.19.1.  LAX LOS ANGELES INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT ZONE.



   (Added by Ord. No. 176,343, Eff. 1/20/05.)



 



   The following regulations shall apply in the "LAX" Los Angeles
International Airport Specific Plan Zone:



 



   A.   Purpose.  This section creates a new LAX Zone and the
regulations set forth in this section refer to the regulations contained in
the LAX Specific Plan.



 



   B.   Use.  No building, structure or land shall be used and no
building or structure shall be erected, structurally altered, enlarged, or
maintained, except as permitted by the LAX Specific Plan.



 



   C.   Area.  No building or structure, nor the enlargement of any
building or structure, shall be erected or maintained unless the requirements
of the LAX Specific Plan are met and maintained in connection with the
building, structure or enlargement.



 



   D.   The provisions of this section apply only to properties owned
by the Los Angeles World Airports (LAWA) or which LAWA has the right to
possess.  Properties not owned by LAWA or which LAWA does not have the right
to possess shall only be subject to the LAX Zone regulations if and when LAWA
either obtains ownership or the right to possession.  Until that time, the
property shall retain the zoning in effect at the time this ordinance becomes
effective and shall not be subject to the LAX Zone regulations.  If and when
LAWA does become the owner or obtains the right to possess, the LAX Zone
shall immediately become operative for that property.



 



 



SEC. 12.20.  “M3” HEAVY INDUSTRIAL ZONE.



 



   The following regulations shall apply in the “M3” Heavy Industrial
Zone.



 



   A.   Use  (Amended by Ord. No. 184,246, Eff. 6/4/16.) – No
building, structure or land shall be used and no structure shall be erected,
structurally altered, enlarged or maintained, except for the following uses,
and, when a “Supplemental Use District” is created by the provisions of
Article 3 of this chapter, for such uses as may be permitted therein:



 



   1.   Any use permitted in the “M2” zone, except the following:
(Amended by Ord. No. 163,073, Eff. 1/30/88.)



 



   (a)   Any building, structure or portion thereof permitted in any R
Zone, other than accessory buildings which are incident to the use of the
land, unless approved pursuant to the provisions of Section 12.24.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 145,474, Eff. 3/2/74.)



 



   (b)   Any building containing dwelling units or guest rooms.



 



   (c)   Hospitals or sanitariums, except animal hospitals. (Amended by
Ord. No. 145,250, Eff. 12/24/73.)



 



   (d)   The open air sale of merchandise from a privately owned vacant
lot or drive-in theater. (Amended by Ord. No. 156,684, Eff. 6/19/82.)



 



   (e)   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.) Indoor swap
meets, unless authorized pursuant to the provisions of Section 12.24 W.42.



 



   2.   Acetylene gas manufacture or storage.



 



   3.   Alcohol manufacture.



 



   4.   Ammonia, bleaching powder, or chlorine manufacture.



 



   5.   The following uses when conducted in accordance with the
limitations hereafter specified.



 



   (a)   Types of uses. (Amended by Ord. No. 152,770, Eff. 9/15/79.)



 



   (1)   Automobile dismantling yard.



 



   (2)   Junk yard.



 



   (3)   Storage, display, processing or sales of second-hand furniture
and appliances.



 



   (4)   Scrap metal processing yard.



 



   (5)   The open storage of material and equipment, including used
materials and equipment. The phrase “used materials and equipment”
includes vehicles, boats, or airplanes which are inoperable, wrecked damaged
or unlicensed. i.e. not currently licensed by the Department of Motor
Vehicles. (Added by Ord. No. 162,335, Eff. 6/6/87.)



 



   (6)   Cargo container storage yard, when established and operated in
conformance with the standards contained in Section 12.21 A.22. of this
Code.  (Added by Ord. No. 177,244, Eff. 2/18/06.)



 



   (b)   Limitations.  The uses set forth in Paragraph (a) above,
except for cargo container storage yards when established and operated in
conformance with the standards contained in Section 12.21 A.22. of this Code,
are subject to the following limitations:  (Amended by Ord. No. 177,244,
Eff. 2/18/06.)



 



   (1)   Notwithstanding any provision of Section 12.23 C.6. of this
Code, from and after August 25, 1970, all of the uses described in Paragraph
(a) of this subdivision in the “M3” Zone shall be conducted wholly within
an enclosed building, or shall be completely enclosed with a solid wall or
solid fence not less than eight feet in height with necessary solid gates of
like height.



 



   (2)   Where a required wall or fence has been erected between the
area wherein the use is conducted and a street, no material is stored to a
height greater than that of such wall or fence within 50 feet thereof unless
the height of the wall or fence is 10 feet or more in which case the distance
within which no material may be stored above the height of the wall or fence
shall be 37 feet. Provided, however, that a scrap metal processing yard that
is entirely located at least 500 feet from a more restrictive zone, is exempt
from the above stacking limitations.



 



   (3)   Paved off-street parking spaces have been provided as
specified in Section 12.19 A.4.(b)(4).



 



   (4)   Landscaping is provided as specified in Section 12.19
A.4.(b)(5).



 



   EXCEPTION:



 



   Any of the uses enumerated in Section 12.20 A.5., located on land which
is entirely separated from a more restrictive zone in the City of Los Angeles
by a body of water at least 500 feet wide shall be exempt from the foregoing
enclosure limitations.



 



   (c)   Compliance.  Any use lawfully existing in the M3 Zone to
which Paragraph (b) of this subdivision is applicable shall be completely
removed from such zone within one year unless said use has been made to
comply with that regulation. Provided, however, that upon a showing that
substantial compliance has been effected, the Director of Planning may grant
an extension of time to complete the work necessary to effect compliance. No
extension so granted shall exceed six months in duration, nor shall more than
one such extension be granted with respect to any individual use. (Amended by
Ord. No. 145,040, Eff. 10/15/73,)



 



   6.   Blast furnace or coke oven.



 



   7.   Boiler works.



 



   8.   Brick, tile or terra cotta manufacture.



 



   9.   Chemical manufacture.



 



   10.   Concrete or cement products manufacture in the open.



 



   11.   Cotton gin or oil mill.



 



   12.   Fish smoking, curing or canning.



 



   13.   Freight classification yard.



 



   14.   Iron or steel foundry or fabrication plant and heavyweight
casting.



 



   15.   Lamp black manufacture.



 



   16.   Oilcloth or linoleum manufacture.



 



   17.   Oil drilling and production of oil, gas or hydrocarbons,
except that oil drilling and production of oil, gas and hydrocarbons within
500 feet of a more restrictive zone shall be subject to the provisions of
Subsection A and H of Section 13.01 of this article. (Amended by Ord. No.
116,820, Eff. 9/26/60.)



 



   18.   Ore reduction.



 



   19.   Paint, oil (including linseed), shellac, turpentine, lacquer
or varnish manufacture.



 



   20.   Paper and pulp manufacture.



 



   21.   Petroleum products manufacture.



 



   22.   Plastic manufacture.



 



   23.   Potash works.



 



   24.   Pyroxyline manufacture.



 



   25.   Quarry or stone mill.



 



   26.   Railroad repair shops.



 



   27.   Rock, sand or gravel distribution; surface mining operations
subject to the restrictions provided in Section 13.03. (Amended by Ord. No.
155,950, Eff. 12/5/81.)



 



   28.   Rolling mills.



 



   29.   Rubber or gutta-percha manufacture or treatment.



 



   30.   Salt works.



 



   31.   Soap manufacture.



 



   32.   Sodium compounds manufacture.



 



   33.   Stove or shoe polish manufacture.



 



   34.   Tar distillation or tar products manufacture.



 



   35.   Wool pulling or scoring.



 



   36.   And in general those uses which may be obnoxious or offensive
by reason of emission of odor, dust, smoke, gas, noise, vibration, and the
like; provided, however, that none of the following uses shall be located
nearer than five hundred (500) feet to a more restricted zone.



 



   (a)   Acid manufacture.



 



   (b)   Automobile, equine or motorcycle race track. (Amended by Ord.
No. 157,144, Eff. 11/22/82.)



 



   (c)   Cement, lime, gypsum or plaster of paris manufacture.



 



   (d)   Distillation of bones.



 



   (e)   Drop forge industries manufacturing forgings with power
hammers.



 



   (f)   Explosives, manufacture or storage, subject to other
provisions of this Code. (Amended by Ord. No. 111,587, Eff. 8/9/58.)



 



   (g)   (None)



 



   (h)   Fertilizer manufacture.



 



   (i)   Garbage, offal, or dead animal dumping. (Added by Ord. No.
158,939, Eff. 6/21/84.)



 



   (j)   Gas manufacture.



 



   (k)   Glue manufacture.



 



   (l)   Petroleum refining.



 



   (m)   Smelting of tin, copper, zinc or iron ores.



 



   (n)   Stock yards or feeding pens.



 



   (o)   (None)



 



   (p)   Tannery or the curing or storage of raw hides.



 



   37.   Uses customarily incident to any of the above uses and
accessory buildings when located on the same lot.



 



   For the location of accessory buildings refer to Sec. 12.11 C.2. and
Sec. 12.22 C.12.



 



   38.   Automobile parking space, for buildings other than dwellings,
as required by Sec. 12.21 A.4.



 



   B.   Restriction.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)  For any lot designated as Public, Quasi-Public,
Public/Quasi-Public Use, Other Public, or Open Space on the land use map of
the applicable community or district plan; any lot shown on the map as having
existing lakes, waterways, reservoirs, debris basins, or similar facilities;
any lot shown on the map as the location of a freeway right-of-way; and any
property annexed to the City of Los Angeles where a plan amendment was not
adopted as part of the annexation proceedings:



 



   Any of the uses permitted by Subsection A. of this section shall
require prior approval in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.24.1
of this Code.



 



   C.   Loading Space – No building or structure, nor the enlargement
of any building or structure, shall be erected or maintained unless a loading
space conforming to the provisions of Sec. 12.21 C.6. is provided and
maintained in connection with such building, structure or enlargement.



 



 



SEC. 12.20.1.  SL OCEAN – SUBMERGED LAND ZONE.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 142,081, Eff. 7/22/71.)



 



   The following regulations shall apply to the SL Ocean Submerged Land
Zone:



 



   A.   Nature, Scope and Purpose.  The Los Angeles City seacoast and
off  shore water and underwater areas constitute a unique and important
geographical and scenic resource, utilized for shipping, industry, commerce,
residence and recreation.



 



   Offshore zoning and incidental districts are a related and appropriate
extension of city planning and zoning principles and practices on land. Their
basic purpose is to protect all users of affected land from the recognized
problems and depreciation brought about by unregulated development.
Particular purposes in Los Angeles include  (1)  protection of the
recreational, residential and scenic uses of coast areas, now much in demand
for these uses and with greater demand forecast for the future;  (2) 
preservation of the near seaward prospect of residential zones along the
coast, where this outlook constitutes part of the environment and value of
overlooking onshore properties and  (3)  provision for such other uses as
benefit the public and City without significant impairment of these
recreational and residential uses.



 



   To permit new coastline or offshore developments of conflicting type
which are not essential to the public interest and could jeopardize or
downgrade existing recreational and residential users, would not constitute
proper consideration of public necessity, convenience, general welfare and
good zoning practice.



 



   To realize the purposes enumerated above, in accordance with
established city planning principles, practice and supportive zoning, certain
general objectives must be met and certain specific requirements are normally
necessary for the constructive control of offshore activities, whether
achieved by zone change, variance, special district or otherwise.



 



   1.   There must be no chemical and biological contamination, visual
clouding or soiling of urban coastline, beaches or offshore waters by
industrial/commercial uses.



 



   2.   Installations onshore, temporary or relatively permanent, must
be of such size, nature, location and spacing that they do not significantly
interfere with or adversely affect the residential and recreational use,
operation, environment or enjoyment of coastline and offshore areas.



 



   3.   The preservation of urban coastline and offshore areas, above
and below water level, in the natural state or for recreation and residence,
should take precedence if their function and enjoyment are threatened by
additional potentially conflicting offshore uses which are not clearly of
greater public necessity and interest.



 



   4.   Any shoreline industrial/commercial uses should be of limited
and designated duration, with provision for complete removal of installations
and restoration of the prior or natural state after expiration of the
permissible time period, unless such removal and restoration are unnecessary
to maintain desirable recreational and residential environment.



 



   5.   No industrial/commercial operations should be undertaken where
or when they may cause significant alterations to the underlying geologic
stability of other areas, offshore and onshore, or otherwise bring about
undesirable changes of basic topographical condition.



 



   6.   Piers, jetties, causeways, man-made islands, bridges or other
connective structures should be prohibited, except when they enhance the
recreational/residential environment.



 



   7.   Emission of smoke, steam, chemical, odor, sound, artificial
light of other form of atmospheric pollutant or environmental impairment from
any seaside industrial/commercial installation or facility should be
controlled to fulfill the purposes of this zoning.



 



   8.   No provision of offshore urban zoning should conflict with
state, federal or international rights or control established by law within
the same geographical areas.



 



   B.   Use.  No property of any kind shall be used except for the
following uses or when a Supplemental Use District is created by the
provisions of Article 3 of this chapter, provided, however, that in no event
shall any property be used for surface-type operations (either above or below
water level) relating to oil drilling and production of oil, gas or
hydrocarbons.



 



   1.   Navigation



 



   2.   The following uses when conducted in accordance with the
limitations hereafter specified:



 



   (a)   Types of Uses:



 



   (1)   Commercial Shipping;



 



   (2)   Fishing;



 



   (3)   Recreation;



 



   (4)   Any use required by any trust or legislative grant to the City
of Los Angeles.



 



   (b)   Limitations.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)
No piers, jetties, man-made islands, floating installations or the like are
permitted in connection with any of the above uses unless authorized under
the provisions of Section 12.24U.



 



 



SEC. 12.20.2.  COASTAL DEVELOPMENT PERMITS (PRIOR TO CERTIFICATION OF THE
LOCAL COASTAL PROGRAM.)




(Title Amended by Ord. No. 160,524, Eff. 12/27/85; Sec. Added by Ord. No.
151,603,* Eff. 11/25/78.)




 



   A.   Purpose. It is the purpose of this section to provide for the
approval or denial of Coastal Development Permits in accordance with Section
30600(b) of the California Public Resources Code. In adopting the California
Coastal Act of 1976 the State Legislature finds and declares:



 



   “(a) That the California Coastal Zone is a distinct and valuable
natural resource of vital and enduring interest to all the people and exists
as a delicately balanced ecosystem.



 



   “(b) That the permanent protection of the state’s natural and
scenic resources is a paramount concern to present and future residents of
the state and nation.



 



   “(c) That to promote the public safety, health, and welfare, and to
protect public and private property, wildlife, marine fisheries, and other
ocean resources, and the natural environment, it is necessary to protect the
ecological balance of the coastal zone and to prevent its deterioration and
destruction.”



 



   B.   Definitions. For the purpose of this section the following
words and phrases are defined:



 



   “Aggrieved Person” means any person who, in person or through a
representative, appeared at a hearing on the application for a Coastal
Development Permit, or appeal hearing in connection with the decision or
action appealed, or who, by other appropriate means prior to a hearing,
informed the permit issuing authority, or appeal body of the nature of his or
her concerns or who for good cause was unable to do either. “Aggrieved
person” includes the applicant for a Coastal Development Permit.



 



   “Coastal Zone” shall mean that land and water area within the City
of Los Angeles as specified on maps prepared by the California Coastal
Commission, copies of which are on file with the Department of City Planning
and the Office of City Engineer. Such “coastal zone” extends seaward to
the City’s outer limit of jurisdiction, and generally extends inland 1000
yards from the mean high tide line of the sea. In significant coastal
estuarine, habitat and recreational areas it extends inland to the first
major ridgeline paralleling the sea or five miles from the mean high tide
line of the sea, whichever is less, and in developed urban areas the zone
extends inland 1000 yards.



 



   “Development” means, on land, in or under water, the placement or
erection of any solid material or structure; discharge or disposal of any
dredged material or of any gaseous, liquid, solid, or thermal waste; grading,
removing, dredging, mining, or extraction of any materials; change in the
density or intensity of the use of land, including, but not limited to,
subdivisions pursuant to the Subdivision Map Act (commencing with Section
66410 of the Government Code), and any other division of land, including
parcel maps and private street divisions, except where any land division is
brought about in connection with the purchase of such land by a public agency
for public recreational use; change in the intensity of use of water, or of
access thereto; construction, reconstruction, demolition, or alteration of
the size of any structure, including any facility of any private, public, or
municipal utility; and the removal or harvesting of major vegetation other
than for agricultural purposes, kelp harvesting, and timber operations which
are in accordance with a timber harvesting plan submitted pursuant to the
provisions of the Z’berg-Nejedly Forest Practice Act of 1973 (commencing
with Section 4511 of the California Public Resources Code).



 



   As used in this definition, “structure” includes, but is not
limited to, any building, road, pipe, flume, conduit, siphon, aqueduct,
telephone line, and electrical power transmission and distribution line.



 



   “Feasible” shall mean capable of being accomplished in a successful
manner within a reasonable period of time, taking into account economic,
environmental, social and technological factors.



 



   “Local Coastal Program” (LCP) shall mean the City’s land use
plans and other applicable general plan elements, zoning ordinances, zoning
district maps, and proposed implementing actions, which when taken together,
meet the requirements of, and implement the provisions and policies of, the
California Coastal Act of 1976.



 



   “Permit” means any license, certificate, approval, or other
entitlement for use granted, conditionally granted, or denied by any public
agency which is subject to the provisions of this section.



 



   “Public Project” shall mean any development initiated by the
Department of Public Works or any of its bureaus, any development initiated
by any other department or agency of the City of Los Angeles, and any
development initiated or to be carried out by any other governmental agency
which is required to obtain a local government permit.  Public Project shall
not include any development by any department or agency of the City of Los
Angeles or any other governmental entity which otherwise requires action by
or approval of the City Planning Commission, Area Planning Commission or the
Office of Zoning Administration, or any development by any department or
agency of the City of Los Angeles or any other government entity for which a
permit from the Department of Building and Safety is required.  Public
Project shall also not include any development on tidelands, submerged lands,
or on public trust lands, whether filled or unfilled. (Definition Amended by
Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)



 



   “Sea” shall mean the Pacific Ocean and all harbors, bays, channels,
canals, estuaries, salt marshes, sloughs and other areas subject to tidal
action through any connection with the Pacific Ocean, excluding nonestuarine
rivers, streams, tributaries, creeks, and flood control and drainage channels.



 



   C.   Use.  No Development shall be undertaken in the Coastal Zone
unless and until an application for such Development has been submitted to
the City for a Coastal Development Permit and such Permit has been obtained
from the appropriate City Department in conformance with the provisions of
this section and has become final. Where the particular coastal project
requires a coastal development permit from the Commission in addition to the
one obtained from the City, no development may be commenced until both such
permits have been obtained, and both have become final.



 



   1.   EXCEPTION. The provisions of this section shall not apply to
developments which do not need locally issued coastal development permits
under the Coastal Act of 1976 or the California Coastal Commission
Regulations, Division 5.5 Title 14 of the California Administrative Code. A
current copy of these regulations is on file with the Department of City
Planning and the Office of City Engineer. This exception shall not relieve
any person from obtaining from the proper authority a Coastal Development
Permit for a Development within the Coastal Zone where such permit is
required but can only be issued by the California Coastal Commission, the
Regional Commission or the Executive Director. The provisions of this section
shall also not apply to any development on tidelands, submerged lands, or on
public trust lands, whether filled or unfilled; any development by a public
agency for which a local government permit is not otherwise required; any
emergency repair authorized by Section 30611 of the Public Resources Code;
any permits authorized to be issued by the Executive Director of the
California Coastal Commission or the Executive Director of the Regional
Commission pursuant to Section 30624 of the Public Resources Code; and any
other permits over which the City is not authorized to exercise the option
provided for in subdivision (b) of Section 30600 of the Public Resources Code.



 



   D.   Initiation. Proceedings for a Permit shall be initiated by the
filing of a verified application upon a form or forms prescribed for that
purpose. An application for a Coastal Development Permit for a public
project, or for a private project where the approval for the underlying
permit is within the jurisdiction of the City Engineer shall be filed in the
public office of the City Engineer. All other applications for Coastal
Development Permits shall be filed in a public office of the Department of
City Planning.



 



   All applications filed with the City Engineer and the Department of
City Planning shall be accompanied by the following data:



 



   1.   An adequate description of the project including, but not
limited to maps, plans, photographs, drawings, etc., of the proposed
development, project site and vicinity sufficient to determine whether the
project complies with all relevant policies of the California Coastal Act of
1976. Each application shall contain sufficient information concerning land
and water areas in the vicinity of the site of the proposed project, (whether
or not owned or controlled by the applicant) so that the permit issuing
authority will be adequately informed as to present uses and plans, both
public and private. insofar as they can reasonably be ascertained for the
vicinity surrounding the project site. The description of the development
shall also include any feasible alternatives or any feasible mitigation
measures available which would substantially lessen any significant adverse
impact which the development may have on the environment. For purposes of
this section the term “significant adverse impact on the environment”
shall be defined as in the California Environmental Quality Act and the State
and City Guidelines adopted pursuant thereto.



 



   2.   A description and documentation of the applicant’s legal
interest in the property on which the Development is to be located if the
application were approved (e.g., ownership, leasehold, enforceable option,
authority to acquire the specific property by eminent domain.)



 



   3.   A dated signature by or on behalf of each of the applicants,
attesting to the truth, completeness, and accuracy of the contents of the
application and, if the signer of the application is not the applicant,
written evidence that the signer is authorized to act as the applicant’s
representative and to bind the applicant in all matters concerning the
application.



 



   4.   A statement of the status of the environmental documentation
for the project and a copy of the required environmental documentation.



 



   5.   Any additional information as may be required by the permit
granting authority.



 



   E.   Notice – Posting. At the time the application is submitted
for filing, the applicant must post, at a conspicuous place, easily read by
the public and as close as possible to the site of the proposed development a
notice that an application has been made for a Coastal Development Permit.
Such notice shall contain specific information as to the nature of the
proposed development and be in a form as prescribed for that purpose.



 



   Notice – Mailing. The applicant shall furnish to the City,
accompanying the application, a list containing the name and address of each
property owner of record and the addresses of all residences, including
apartments within one hundred feet from each boundary of the site of the
proposed development. Where the hearing on the Coastal Development Permit is
to be combined with a public hearing otherwise required by this Code for the
proposed development, and the provisions of this Code require notification to
persons beyond one hundred feet of the site of the proposed development, no
separate list shall be required, and all persons notified of the hearing for
the proposed development shall also be notified that the hearing shall
include the application for a Coastal Development Permit. Notice of such
hearing shall also be sent to an occupant of all residences, including
apartments within 100 feet of the boundary of the proposed development, all
persons known, or thought to have a particular interest in the application,
and all other persons requesting notice.



 



   F.   Proceedings and Hearing.



 



   1.   Time Limit – Hearing – Notice. To the extent possible, any
Permit application for a Development within the Coastal Zone shall be
processed in accordance with established policies and procedures of a permit
granting authority in conformance with the provisions of this Code. For those
projects for which no hearing would otherwise be required by law, the
appropriate City agency shall notify by mail, at least ten (10) days prior to
the hearing, the following:



 



   (a)   those persons whose names appear on the list of property
owners within 100 feet of the boundary of the site of the proposed
development;



 



   (b)   an occupant of all residences, including apartments, within
100 feet of the boundary of the site of the proposed development. This
requirement can be met by mailing such notice to “occupant” of the
subject residence.



 



   (c)   those persons known or thought to have a particular interest
in the application and



 



   (d)   all other persons requesting notice.



 



   At the public hearing, all interested persons shall be afforded a
reasonable opportunity to testify and present evidence.



 



   G.   Determination.



 



   1.   Authority – A permit granting authority shall have the
authority to approve, conditionally approve or disapprove any application for
a Permit under the provisions of the California Coastal Act of 1976; and,
standards as established by Division 5.5 Title 14 of the California
Administrative Code. In making its determination under the provisions of this
section, the permit granting authority shall not approve, or conditionally
approve a permit unless it makes written findings, including specific factual
findings, supporting the following conclusions:



 



   (a)   That the development is in conformity with Chapter 3 of the
California Coastal Act of 1976 (commencing with Section 30200 of the
California Public Resources Code).



 



   (b)   That the permitted development will not prejudice the ability
of the City of Los Angeles to prepare a Local Coastal Program that is in
conformity with Chapter 3 of the California Coastal Act of 1976.



 



   (c)   That the Interpretative Guidelines for Coastal Planning and
Permits as established by the California Coastal Commission dated February
11, 1977 and any subsequent amendments thereto have been reviewed, analyzed,
and considered in the light of the individual project in making its
determination.



 



   (d)   That the decision of the permit granting authority has been
guided by any applicable decision of the California Coastal Commission
pursuant to Section 30625(c) of the Public Resources Code.



 



   (e)   If the development is located between the nearest public road
and the sea or shoreline of any body of water located within the coastal
zone, that the development is in conformity with the public access and public
recreation policies of Chapter 3 of the California Coastal Act of 1976.



 



   (f)   Any other finding or findings as may be required for the
development by the California Environmental Quality Act.



 



   2.   Conditions of Approval – In approving an application for a
permit under the provisions of this section, the city shall impose such
reasonable terms and conditions as it deems necessary to assure a development
that is in accordance with the provisions of the California Coastal Act of
1976 and those other criteria set forth in the preceding paragraph.



 



   3.   Notification – A copy of the permit granting authority’s
action approving, conditionally approving or disapproving any application for
a Coastal Development Permit, along with any findings made and conditions
imposed in connection therewith, shall be mailed to the applicant and to any
person or persons who, in writing, request a copy of such action.



 



   H.   Appeals. Appeals from the approval, conditional approval, or
disapproval of a permit under the provisions of this section, may be taken by
the applicant or any aggrieved person as follows:



 



   1.   Where a Coastal Development Permit hearing has been combined
with the hearing on the project itself, an appeal may be taken to the
appellate body that would hear and decide the appeal from the underlying
project. If the appeal from any underlying project is further appealable to a
second appellate body, the Coastal Development Permit is likewise further
appealable. The time within which to appeal shall be the same as that
provided for an appeal of the project itself, but the decision of the permit
granting authority on the coastal permit may be separately appealed, without
appealing the action on the underlying project. The times for notification of
hearing and action on such appeal shall be the same as for the underlying
project, whether or not such underlying project is also appealed.



 



   2.   Where a Coastal Development Permit application is for a public
project, the action of the City Engineer may be appealed to the Board of
Public Works. Such appeal shall be filed with the Office of the City Engineer
within ten days of the mailing of the decision of the permit granting
authority.



 



   3.   Where a coastal development permit (other than for a Public
Project) involves an underlying activity which is not otherwise appealable,
the action of a permit-granting authority on an application may be appealed
to the Area Planning Commission.  That appeal shall be filed with the Area
Planning Commission within ten days of the mailing of the decision of the
permit-granting authority. (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)



 



   4.   Any appeal filed with either the City Engineer or the Area
Planning Commission shall be heard and decided within 30 days of the filing
of the appeal.  Notice shall be mailed to the required parties at least ten
days prior to the hearing. (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)



 



   Action on any appeal shall be in writing, and if the appeal is granted,
in whole or in part, such decision shall set forth wherein the permit
granting authority, or the lower appeal body erred in its action on the
permit under the criteria set forth in Section 12.20.2G.l,(a) through (e). If
the action of any appeal body is further appealable within the City of Los
Angeles’ appeal structure, notice of such intermediate appeal body’s
action approving, conditionally approving or disapproving any appeal of a
Coastal Development Permit along with any findings made and conditions
imposed in connection therewith, shall be mailed to the applicant, the
appellant, and to any person or persons who, in writing, request a copy of
such action.



 



   I.   Notification. After the decision of the last appeal body, or
the time within which any appeal can be taken has expired, the permit
granting authority, or any appeal body whose action became final on the
permit, shall transmit a copy, by mail, with return receipt requested, of the
notice of permit issuance or permit denial to the Executive Director of the
Regional Coastal Commission. Such notice shall include the requisite
findings, a project description and a verbatim copy of any conditions
attached to the permit, all as required by Section 13302(g) of the California
Coastal Commission Regulations. Notice shall also be mailed to the applicant,
the appellant, and any persons who, in writing, requested such notice.



 



   The decision of the permit granting authority, or any appeal body to
approve issuance of a permit shall not be deemed to be final and no Coastal
Development Permit may be issued until 20 working days have expired from the
date said notice of permit issuance is deemed received by said Executive
Director and without an appeal having been taken to the South Coast Regional
Commission.



 



   If a timely, valid appeal is taken to the Regional Commission, the
operation and effect of the Coastal Development Permit is stayed pending
final action on the appeal by the Regional Commission or the Commission, and
the City shall within five working days of the receipt of such notice,
deliver to the Executive Director copies of all relevant documents and
materials used by the City in its consideration of the permit application.



 



   If no appeal is taken within 20 working days of the date of the notice
of the City’s decision to issue a permit is deemed received by the
Executive Director, the applicant may commence utilization of the permit. If
no timely appeal is taken from the City’s decision to deny a permit, such
decision is final.



 



   Neither an applicant nor any other aggrieved party may appeal the
approval, conditional approval, or disapproval of any permit to the Regional
Commission unless and until all of the City’s appeal procedures for such
permit have been taken, and a decision thereon has been made.



 



   J.   Revocation. Any permit application filed or approved under the
provisions of this section or Code may be immediately terminated or revoked
by the permit granting authority upon a finding that one or more of the
following grounds exist:



 



   1.   That inaccurate, erroneous or incomplete information was filed
or presented in conjunction with said Permit application.



 



   2.   That names and addresses of all property owners as shown on the
records of the City Engineer or of the County Assessor, were not provided
within the required radius of the involved property in conformity with the
requirements of this section and Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,595, Eff.
4/10/11.)



 



   3.   That the addresses of all residential occupancies within one
hundred feet of each boundary of the site of the proposed development were
not provided.



 



   4.   That the applicant failed to post and maintain the required
notice at the project site in accordance with Subsection E of this section.



 



   K.   Exception. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this section
or Code, an applicant may file an application for a Permit at any point of
the project approval process relating to his or her Development. However,
upon initiation of the project approval process by the applicant, said
applicant shall sign and notarize a form prescribed for this purpose which
shall contain the following:



 



   1.   A statement advising the applicant that no permits or
permission for a Development in the Coastal Zone shall be issued unless and
until a Permit has been approved in accordance with the provisions of this
section.



 



   2.   A statement relieving the City of any legal or other
responsibility in the event that failure to apply for a Permit results in, or
contributes to, a violation of Section 65950, 65951 or 65952 of the
California Government Code.



 



   L.   Violations. Any violation of the provisions of this section and
Code relating to the processing of permits shall be subject to enforcement
and penalties of Chapter 9 of the California Coastal Act of 1976 and
subsequent amendments thereto.



 



   M.   Charges For Notification. No person requesting notification of
any application, hearing or decision by any permit granting authority or any
notification of hearing or decision on any appeal therefrom shall be required
to bear the cost of any such notification.



 



   N.   Extensions of Permits.  (Added by Ord. No. 171,424 Eff.
1/4/97.)  Prior to the expiration of a Coastal Development Permit, an
applicant may apply to the initial approving authority of the original permit
for an extension of the permit for a period of one year.  This request shall
automatically extend the expiration date of the permit until the approving
authority has acted upon the request and the approving authority’s action
becomes effective.  However, if construction has not commenced at the time
the application for extension is made, construction may not commence during
the period of the automatic extension until the approving authority has acted
upon the request and it becomes effective.  The application shall state the
reasons for the request and shall be accompanied by evidence of a valid,
unexpired permit and of the applicant’s continued legal ownership interest
in the property.  The applicant shall also furnish to the City the
information required in Subsection E. of this section.



 



   The approving authority, in considering the request for extension,
shall determine whether there are changed circumstances that may affect the
consistency of the project with the findings required under Subsection G. of
this section.



 



   If the approving authority determines that there are no changed
circumstances that may affect the consistency of the project with the
findings required under Subsection G. of this section, notice of the
determination, including a summary of the procedures set forth in this
subsection, shall be posted on the subject property by the applicant and
shall be mailed, by first class mail by the appropriate City agency, to all
persons who testified at any public hearing on the original permit and left
their names and addresses, or submitted written testimony or to any other
persons requesting notice.



 



   If no written objection to the determination is received within 10
working days of the posting and mailing, the extension shall be approved.



 



   If the approving authority determines that, due to changed
circumstances, the proposed development is no longer consistent with the
findings required in Subsection G. of this section, or if objection is made
to the determination of consistency, the approving authority shall set the
matter for public hearing and give notice in accordance with the provisions
of Subsection F. of this section.  In addition, the approving authority
shall notify any persons who objected to the approving authority’s
determination of consistency.



 



   The approving authority shall make a determination based on the facts
presented at the public hearing.  If the proposed development is determined
to be consistent with the findings required in Subsection G. of this section,
the extension shall be approved.  If the proposed development is determined
to be inconsistent with these requirements, the extension shall be denied.



 



   Notice of any action taken by the approving authority on an application
for an extension of a permit shall be provided as set forth in Subdivision 3.
of Subsection G. of this section.



 



   Any action taken by the approving authority on an application for an
extension of a permit is appealable to the first City appellate body
referenced in Subsection H. of this section in the same manner as an appeal
of the original permit as set forth in Subsection H.



 



   The notification procedures and the procedures applicable to appeals to
the Coastal Commission set forth in Subsection I. of this section are
applicable to applications for extensions of permits.



 



   O.   Amendments To Permits.  (Added by Ord. No. 171,424 Eff.
1/4/97.)



 



   1.   The holder of a Coastal Development Permit may apply to amend
the permit by filing a written application with the initial approving
authority who approved the original permit.  The application shall contain a
description of the proposed amendment, the reason for the amendment, together
with maps, plans or any other information as may be required by the approving
authority, and shall be accompanied by evidence of a valid, unexpired permit
and of the applicant’s continued legal ownership interest in the
property.  The applicant shall also furnish to the City the information
required in Subsection E. of this section.  If the application is deemed
complete and accepted, the approving authority shall determine if the
requested amendment constitutes an immaterial or material change to the
permit.



 



   2.   For applications representing immaterial changes, the approving
authority shall prepare a written notice containing the same information
required for the notice of the original application for a Coastal Development
Permit, a description of the proposed amendment and a summary of the
procedures outlined in this subsection.  The notice shall be posted on the
subject property by the applicant and shall also be mailed, by first class
mail by the appropriate City agency, to all persons who testified at any
public hearing on the original permit and left their names and addresses, or
submitted written testimony or to any other persons who requested to be
notified.  If no written objection is received by the approving authority
within 10 working days of the posting and mailing, the approving authority
shall approve the amendment provided the following findings are made:



 



   (a)   that the proposed amendment will not lessen or avoid the
intended effect of the original permit, as approved or conditioned consistent
with the findings required in Subsection G. of this section, unless the
proposed amendment is necessitated by a change in circumstances, and the
applicant has presented newly discovered material which he or she could not,
with reasonable diligence, have discovered and produced before the original
permit was granted; and



 



   (b)   that the proposed amendment will not lessen or eliminate any
conditions imposed for the purpose of protecting a coastal resource or
coastal access consistent with the findings required by Subsection G. of this
section; and



 



   (c)   that all of the findings required by Subsection G. of this
section can still be made; and



 



   (d)   that the proposed amendment will not result in any increase in
the density or intensity of the project; and



 



   (e)   that the proposed amendment will not cause any adverse impact
on surrounding properties.



 



   3.   For applications representing material changes, applications
whose immateriality has been challenged or applications for amendments which
affect coastal resource or coastal access protection as required by
California Public Resources Code Section 30604, the approving authority shall
set the matter for public hearing and shall give notice in accordance with
the provisions of Subsection F. of this section.  The approving authority
shall also notify all persons who objected to the approving authority’s
determination of immateriality.  If the approving authority can make the
findings contained in Subdivision 2. of this subsection, it shall approve the
application for amendment to the permit.  If the approving authority cannot
make the findings referenced above, the application for amendment shall be
denied.



 



   4.   Notice of any action taken by the approving authority on an
application for an amendment to a permit shall be provided as set forth in
Subdivision 3. of Subsection G. of this section.



 



   5.   Any action taken by the approving authority on an application
for an amendment to a permit is appealable in the same manner as an appeal on
the original permit as set forth in the Subsection H. of this section.



 



   6.   The notification procedures and the procedures applicable to
appeals to the Coastal Commission set forth in Subsection I. of this section
are applicable to applications for amendments to permits.



 



 



SEC. 12.20.2.1.  COASTAL DEVELOPMENT PERMIT PROCEDURES AFTER CERTIFICATION
OF THE LOCAL COASTAL PROGRAM.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 175,691, Eff. 1/19/04.)



 



   A.   Requirement of a Coastal Development Permit.  A Coastal
Development Permit issued by the City in conformance with the provisions of
this section is required for all Coastal Development located within an area
of the City covered by a certified local coastal program, unless the Coastal
Development is exempted under Section 12.20.1 C., or the proposed project
site lies completely within the Coastal Commission Permit jurisdiction, or
the Coastal Commission previously issued a Coastal Development Permit for the
Coastal Development.  Coastal Development undertaken pursuant to a Coastal
Development Permit shall conform to the plans, specifications, terms and
conditions approved in the Permit.  Amendments to these procedures are not
effective until certified by the Coastal Commission.



 



   B.   Definitions.  The following definitions shall apply to the
Coastal Zone of the City within areas subject to certified Local Coastal
Programs.  Words and phrases not defined here shall be construed as defined
in Section 12.03 or the California Coastal Commission regulations, if defined
there.



 



   Appealable Area shall mean the area identified in Public Resources Code
Section 30603.  The area that meets this criteria includes, but is not
limited to, the area shown on the “Post-LCP Certification Permit and
Appeals Jurisdiction Map” certified by the Coastal Commission in accordance
with the provisions of California Code of Regulations Title 14 Section 13576
and attached as an exhibit in each certified coastal specific plan.



 



   Appealable Development shall mean, in accordance with Public Resources
Code Section 30603(a), any development that constitutes a major public works
project or a major energy facility, or any development located in the
Appealable Area.



 



   Applicant shall mean the person, partnership, corporation, or other
entity or State or local government agency applying for the Coastal
Development Permit.



 



   Approving Authority shall mean the initial decision-maker and appeal
body, including the Director of Planning, City Engineer, Zoning
Administrator, City Planning Commission, Area Planning Commission, Board of
Public Works, City Council or other applicable decision-making person or body
within the City of Los Angeles, which has the authority to approve a Coastal
Development Permit pursuant to this section or by reason of jurisdiction over
other permits and approvals sought in conjunction with an application for a
Coastal Development Permit.



 



   Categorically Excluded Development shall mean a development, which is
excluded from the Coastal Development Permit requirements pursuant to a
categorical exclusion order adopted by the Coastal Commission that sets forth
the specific categories of development that qualify for the exclusion within
a specific geographic area, and which establishes that those categories of
development in the specified geographic areas will have no potential for
significant adverse effects, either individually or cumulatively on coastal
resources or on public access to or along the coastline.



 



   Coastal Bluff shall mean the upper termination of a bluff, cliff, or
seacliff.  In cases where the top edge of the cliff is rounded away from the
face of the cliff as a result of erosional processes related to the presence
of the steep cliff face, the bluff line or edge shall be defined as that
point nearest the cliff beyond which the downward gradient of the surface
increases more or less continuously until it reaches the general gradient of
the cliff.  In a case where there is a steplike feature at the top of the
cliff face, the landward edge of the topmost riser shall be taken to be the
cliff edge.  The termini of the bluff line, or edge along the seaward face
of the bluff, shall be defined as a point reached by bisecting the angle
formed by a line coinciding with the general trend of the bluff line along
the inland facing portion of the bluff.  Five hundred feet shall be the
minimum length of bluff line or edge to be used in making these
determinations.



 



   Coastal Development shall mean any of the following on land, in or
under water:  the placement or erection of any solid material or structure;
the discharge or disposal of any dredged material or of any gaseous, liquid,
solid or thermal waste; the grading, removing, dredging, mining or extraction
of any materials; any change in the density or intensity of use of land,
including, but not limited to, subdivisions pursuant to the Subdivision Map
Act (commencing with Government Code Section 66410), and any other division
of land, including lot splits, except where the land division is brought
about in connection with the purchase of the land by a public agency for
public recreational use; any change in the intensity of use of water or of
access to the water; construction, reconstruction, demolition or alteration
of the size of any structure, including any facility of any private, public
or municipal utility; and the removal or harvesting of major vegetation other
than for agricultural purposes, kelp harvesting, and timber operations, which
are in accordance with a timber harvesting plan submitted pursuant to the
provisions of the Z’berg-Nejedly Forest Practice Act of 1973 (commencing
with Public Resources Code Section 4511).



 



   Coastal Zone shall mean that land and water area specified on the maps
cited in Section 30103 of the Public Resources Code, extending seaward to the
State’s outer limit of jurisdiction, including all offshore islands, but
with some additional criteria for special areas as specified in Public
Resources Code Sections 30103.5 and 30166.



 



   Disaster shall mean fire, flood, wind, earthquake, or other natural or
man-made disaster.



 



   Emergency shall mean a sudden, unexpected occurrence demanding
immediate action to prevent or mitigate loss or damage to life, health,
property or essential public services.



 



   Environmentally Sensitive Habitat Area shall mean any officially mapped
area in which plant or animal life or their habitats are either rare or
especially valuable because of their special nature or role in an ecosystem
and which could easily be disturbed or degraded by human activities and
developments, and any area identified as a wetland, an environmentally
sensitive habitat or as a Sensitive Coastal Resource Area, in a certified
Local Coastal Program, a certified land use plan or a certified specific plan.



 



   First Public Road Paralleling the Sea shall mean that road nearest to
the sea, as defined in Public Resources Code Section 30115, which:



 



   (a)   is lawfully open to uninterrupted public use and is suitable
for that use;



 



   (b)   is publicly maintained;



 



   (c)   is an improved, all-weather road open to motor vehicle traffic
in at least one direction;



 



   (d)   is not subject to any restrictions on use by the public except
when closed due to an Emergency or when closed temporarily for military
purposes; and



 



   (e)   does, in fact, connect with other public roads, providing a
continuous access system, and generally parallels and follows the shoreline
of the sea so as to include all portions of the sea where the physical
features, such as bays, lagoons, estuaries and wetlands cause the waters of
the sea to extend landward from the generally continuous coastline.



 



   Public Project shall mean any development initiated by the Department
of Public Works or any of its bureaus, any development initiated by any other
department or agency of the City of Los Angeles, and any development
initiated or to be carried out by any other governmental agency that is
required to obtain a local government permit.  Public Project shall not
include any development by any department or agency of the City of Los
Angeles or any other governmental entity that otherwise requires action by or
approval of the City Planning Commission, Area Planning Commission or the
Office of Zoning Administration, or any development by any department or
agency of the City of Los Angeles or any other government entity for which a
permit from the Department of Building and Safety is required.  Public
Project shall also not include any development on tidelands, submerged lands,
or on public trust lands, whether filled or unfilled.



 



   Wetland shall mean lands within the Coastal Zone which may be covered
periodically or permanently with shallow water and include saltwater marshes,
freshwater marshes, open or closed brackish water marshes, swamps, mudflats
and fens.



 



   C.   Exemptions.  The following types of Coastal Development are
exempt from the requirement to obtain a Coastal Development Permit in
accordance with the provisions of this section:



 



   1.   Improvements to Existing Structures.



 



   (a)   Improvements to any existing structure are exempt.  For
purposes of this section, in order to qualify as an improvement, the Coastal
Development shall retain 50% or more of the existing exterior walls of the
building or structure.  In addition, the following shall be considered a
part of an existing structure:



 



   (1)   all fixtures and other structures directly attached to the
existing structure and landscaping on the lot;



 



   (2)   for single-family residences, in addition to (1) above,
structures on the property normally associated with a single-family
residence, such as garages, swimming pools, fences and storage sheds, but not
including guest houses or self-contained dwelling units, shall also be
considered part of that structure.



 



   (b)   Notwithstanding the exemption provided in Section C.1. above,
the following improvements require a Coastal Development Permit:



 



   (1)   improvements to any structure on a beach, Wetland, stream or
lake, seaward of the mean high tide line, where the structure or proposed
improvement would encroach within 50 feet of the edge of a Coastal Bluff,
stream or in areas of natural vegetation designated by resolution of the
Coastal Commission as a significant natural habitat, or identified in a
certified local coastal plan or specific plan as a significant natural
habitat; or within 100 feet of the edge of a Coastal Bluff if the structure
is a single family dwelling;



 



   (2)   any significant alteration of land forms, including the
removal or placement of vegetation, on a beach, Wetland or sand dune, or
within 100 feet of the edge of a Coastal Bluff or stream or in areas of
natural vegetation designated by resolution of the Coastal Commission or in a
certified specific plan as a significant natural habitat; or within 50 feet
of the edge of a Coastal Bluff if the structure is a single family dwelling;



 



   (3)   the expansion or construction of water wells or septic systems;



 



   (4)   improvements to any structure on property located in the
Appealable Area that would result in (i) an increase of ten percent or more
of internal floor area of the existing structure, or (ii) an additional
improvement of ten percent or less where an improvement to the structure has
previously been undertaken pursuant to Public Resources Code Section
30610(b), and/or (iii) an increase in height by more than ten percent of an
existing structure;



 



   (5)   improvements to any structure on property in the
non-appealable area that would result in an increase of ten percent or more
of internal floor area of the existing structure;



 



   (6)   improvements to any structure in significant scenic resource
areas as designated by the Coastal Commission or in a certified specific plan
that would result in (i) an increase of ten percent or more of internal floor
area of the existing structure, or (ii) an additional improvement of ten
percent or less where an improvement to the structure has previously been
undertaken pursuant to Public Resources Code Section 30610(b), and/or (iii)
an increase in height by more than ten percent of an existing structure;



 



   (7)   in areas the Coastal Commission has previously declared, by
resolution after public hearing, to have a critically short water supply that
must be maintained for the protection of coastal resources or public
recreational use, the construction of any specific major water-using Coastal
Development including, but not limited to, swimming pools, or the
construction or extension of any landscaping irrigation system;



 



   (8)   any improvement to a structure where the development permit
issued for the original structure by the Coastal Commission indicated that
any future improvements would require a Coastal Development Permit;



 



   (9)   any improvement to a structure that results in a Change in the
Intensity of Use of the structure; and



 



   (10)   any improvement made pursuant to a conversion of an existing
structure from a multiple unit rental use or visitor-serving commercial use
to a use involving a fee ownership or long-term leasehold, including, but not
limited to, a condominium conversion, stock cooperative conversion or
hotel/motel timesharing conversion.



 



   2.   Repair and Maintenance Activities of Public Utilities.  Repair
and maintenance activities of public utilities as specified in the repair,
maintenance and utility hook-up exclusion adopted by the Coastal Commission
on September 5, 1978.



 



   3.   Other Repair and Maintenance.  Repair and maintenance
activities that do not result in a material addition to or an enlargement or
expansion of the object of those activities, except as otherwise specified by
the Coastal Commission in California Code of Regulations, Title 14, Section
13252, and any amendments subsequently adopted, except if the repairs or
maintenance involve any of the following:



 



   (a)   Any method of repair or maintenance of a seawall revetment,
bluff retaining wall, breakwater, groin, culvert, outfall or similar
shoreline work that involves:



 



   (1)   repair or maintenance involving substantial alteration of the
foundation of the protective work including pilings and other surface or
subsurface structures;



 



   (2)   the placement, whether temporary or permanent, of rip-rap,
artificial berms of sand or other beach materials, or any other forms of
solid materials, on a beach or in coastal waters, streams, Wetlands,
estuaries and lakes or on a shoreline protective work except for agricultural
dikes within enclosed bays or estuaries;



 



   (3)   the replacement of 20 percent or more of the materials in an
existing structure with materials of a different kind; or



 



   (4)   the presence, whether temporary or permanent, of mechanized
construction equipment or construction materials on any sand area or bluff or
within 20 feet of coastal waters or streams.



 



   (b)   Any method of maintenance dredging that involves:



 



   (1)   the dredging of 100,000 cubic yards or more within a 12 month
period;



 



   (2)   the placement of dredge spoils of any quantity within an
Environmentally Sensitive Habitat Area, on any sand area, within 50 feet of
the edge of a Coastal Bluff or Environmentally Sensitive Habitat Area or
within 20 feet of coastal waters or streams; or



 



   (3)   the removal, sale or disposal of dredge spoils of any quantity
that would be suitable for beach nourishment in an area that the Coastal
Commission has declared by resolution, or has been identified in a certified
Local Coastal Program, to have a critically short sand supply that must be
maintained for protection of structures, coastal access or public
recreational use.



 



   (c)   Any repair or maintenance to facilities or structures or work
located in an Environmentally Sensitive Habitat Area, any sand area, within
50 feet of the edge of a Coastal Bluff or Environmentally Sensitive Habitat
Area or within 20 feet of coastal waters or streams that includes:



 



   (1)   the placement or removal, whether temporary or permanent, of
rip-rap, rocks, sand or other beach materials or any other forms of solid
materials; or



 



   (2)   the presence, whether temporary or permanent, of mechanized
equipment or construction materials.



 



   (d)   Unless destroyed by Disaster, the replacement of 50 percent or
more of a seawall, revetment, bluff retaining wall, breakwater, groin or
similar protective work under one ownership is not repair and maintenance
under  Public Resources Code Section 30610(d), but instead constitutes a
replacement structure requiring a Coastal Development Permit.



 



   4.   Replacement Structures.  The replacement of any structure
destroyed by a Disaster if the replacement structure conforms to applicable
existing zoning requirements, is for the same use as the destroyed structure,
does not exceed either the floor area, height, or bulk of the destroyed
structure by more than ten percent and is sited in the same location on the
affected property as the destroyed structure.



 



   As used in this subdivision, “bulk” means total interior cubic
volume as measured from the exterior surface of the structure.



 



   As used in this subdivision, “structure” includes landscaping and
any erosion control structure or device which is similar to that which
existed prior to the occurrence of the Disaster.



 



   5.   Categorically Excluded Development.  Any Coastal Development
that has been categorically excluded pursuant to a categorical exclusion
approved by the Coastal Commission.



 



   6.   Geologic Testing.  Geologic testing that does not require
other City permits, does not involve cutting access roads and does not remove
significant vegetation.



 



   7.   Temporary Events. 



 



   (a)   A temporary event that meets all of the following criteria:



 



   (1)   does not involve a charge for general public admission or
seating; and



 



   (2)   will not restrict public access or use of roadways, parking
areas, or recreational areas; and



 



   (3)   will not either directly or indirectly impact Environmentally
Sensitive Habitat Areas, rare or endangered species, significant scenic
resources, or other coastal resources, such as water-oriented activities,
visitor facilities, marine resources, biological resources, agricultural
lands, and archaeological or paleontological resources.



 



   (b)   Any temporary event which has previously received a Coastal
Development Permit, will be in the same location, during the same time
period, will be operated in the same manner, and was not the subject of
previous complaints.



 



   D.   General Procedures for Appealable and Non-Appealable Coastal
Development Permits.



 



   1.   Application for a Coastal Development Permit.  An application
for a Coastal Development Permit shall be filed with either the Department of
City Planning or the City Engineer on a form provided by the Department and
include all information required by the instructions on the application and
any applicable adopted guidelines.



 



   2.   Jurisdiction.



 



   (a)   An application for a Coastal Development Permit for a Public
Project, or for a private project where the approval of the underlying permit
is within the jurisdiction of the City Engineer, shall be filed in the office
of the City Engineer.



 



   (b)   All other applications for Coastal Development Permits shall
be filed in a public office of the Department of City Planning.



 



   3.   Preliminary Notice of Jurisdiction.



 



   (a)   At the time an application for Coastal Development is
submitted, the Director of Planning (Director) or City Engineer, whichever
has jurisdiction, shall determine whether:



 



   (1)   the development is within the Coastal Commission’s
jurisdiction or the City’s jurisdiction; and



 



   (2)   the development is located within the appealable or
non-appealable jurisdiction of the Coastal Zone; and   



 



   (3)   the development is within an area designated by a certified
Local Coastal Program or within the area subject to the provisions of Section
12.20.1 of this Code; and



 



   (4)   the development is exempt or categorically excluded according
to the criteria of Subsection C. of this section.



 



    (b)   The Director or City Engineer shall use the following
criteria:  the certified Local Coastal Program, including any maps, the Post
LCP Certification Permit and Appeals Jurisdiction Map certified by the
California Coastal Commission, land use designations, special programs and
zoning ordinances that are certified as part of the Local Coastal Program and
categorical exclusion orders granted by the Coastal Commission.



 



   (c)   If the preliminary notice of jurisdiction of the Director or
City Engineer is challenged by the Applicant or an interested person within
15 days after the determination is made, the Director or City Engineer may
request an opinion of the Coastal Commission Executive Director.  The
decision of the Executive Director or the Coastal Commission pursuant to
California Code of Regulations, Title 14, Section 13569 shall apply.



 



   4.   Notice of Exemption.



 



   (a)   After jurisdiction has been established and the Director or
City Engineer has determined that the Coastal Development is exempt pursuant
to Subsection C. of this section, the Director or the City Engineer,
whichever has jurisdiction, shall issue a notice of exemption for a Coastal
Development which is exempt from the Coastal Development Permit
requirements.  The Director or City Engineer shall mail a copy of the notice
of exemption to the Applicant and the Coastal Commission.



 



   (b)   The City shall maintain a record of all notices issued for
exempt Coastal Developments, including Categorically Excluded Developments,
which shall be made available to the Coastal Commission or any interested
person upon request.  This record may be in the form of a list of issued
permits or approvals currently maintained by the City, provided that the
record includes the Applicant’s name, the location of the Coastal
Development, and a brief description of the Coastal Development.



 



   5.   Deeming an Application Complete.



 



   (a)   Within 30 days of the submittal of the application and the
payment of fees, the Director or City Engineer, whichever has jurisdiction,
shall determine whether the application is complete.



 



   (b)   Prior to deeming an application complete, the Director or City
Engineer shall determine, and if necessary, advise the Applicant, of the
processes to be followed, any additional information required, and the fees
to be paid.  The Director or City Engineer shall adopt guidelines and use
them to determine when an application is deemed complete. 



 



   6.   Concurrent Processing With Other Permits or Approvals. 



 



   (a)   When a proposed Coastal Development is required to obtain a
Coastal Development Permit and is also required to obtain other
quasi-judicial or legislative approvals, the application for a Coastal
Development Permit shall be filed and processed concurrently with the other
permits or approvals.  The action of the Approving Authority shall be
considered one consolidated action.



 



   (b)   An appeal of the initial decision on a Coastal Development
Permit application shall automatically constitute an appeal of the decision
on the application for the other discretionary permits and approvals.  Any
appeal of the other permits and approvals shall also constitute an appeal of
the Coastal Development Permit unless the appeal of the Coastal Development
Permit would violate Charter Section 563.  The time for appeal of the
Coastal Development Permit to the Coastal Commission shall commence after
action on the other  permits and approvals becomes final.



 



   (c)   If a condition of the Coastal Development Permit varies from a
condition contained in the other permits and approvals, the more restrictive
condition shall control.



 



   (d)   No additional fees shall be charged for appeal of a Coastal
Development Permit that is combined with an appeal for the other permits and
approvals.



 



   7.   Time Limit for Initial Decision.



 



   (a)   The initial Approving Authority shall make a written decision
approving, disapproving or approving with conditions a Coastal Development
Permit within 75 days after:



 



   (1)   the date the application is deemed complete; or



 



   (2)   when an environmental impact report (EIR) is required, the
date the EIR is certified as complete consistent with State law.



 



   (b)   The time limit may be extended by mutual consent of the
Director and the Applicant.



 



   E.   Notice.



 



   1.   Notice of Coastal Development Permit Application.  The City,
at the Applicant’s expense, shall provide a Notice of Coastal Development
Permit Application by first class mail at least ten calendar days prior to
the initial decision.  This notice shall be provided to each Applicant, to
the Certified Neighborhood Council, to all persons who have requested to be
on the mailing list for the particular Coastal Development or for all coastal
decisions within the Coastal Zone, to all property owners and residents
within 100 feet of the perimeter of the parcel on which the Coastal
Development is proposed, exclusive of streets, and to the Coastal
Commission.  The notice shall contain the following information:



 



   (a)   a statement that the Coastal Development is within the Coastal
Zone;



 



   (b)   the date of filing of the application and the name of the
Applicant;



 



   (c)   the case number assigned to the application;



 



   (d)   a description of the Coastal Development and its proposed
location;



 



   2.   Notice of Waiver of Public Hearing. 



 



   (a)   For Coastal Development in the Appealable Area where the
requirement for a public hearing is proposed to be waived, the City shall
provide the following statement in the manner provided in Subdivision 1.
above:  “the public hearing will be waived unless a hearing is requested
by any person within ten working days of the date of this notice.  The
failure to request a public hearing may result in the loss of that person’s
ability to appeal to the Coastal Commission the City’s action on the
Coastal Development Permit.”



 



   (b)   For a Coastal Development that does not require a public
hearing pursuant to this section, the notice shall contain the date the
application will be acted upon by the Approving Authority and the general
procedure for submitting public comments in writing to the Approving
Authority prior to the decision date.



 



   3.   Notice of Public Hearing.  For a Coastal Development that
requires a public hearing pursuant to this section, the City, at the
Applicant’s expense, shall provide a Notice of Public Hearing by first
class mail at least ten calendar days prior to the first public hearing. 
This Notice may be combined with the Notice of Coastal Development Permit
Application for applications that require a Public Hearing.



 



   This notice shall be provided to each Applicant, to all persons who
have requested to be on the mailing list for the particular Coastal
Development or for all coastal decisions within the Coastal Zone, to all
property owners and residents within 100 feet of the perimeter of the parcel
on which the Coastal Development is proposed, exclusive of streets, and to
the Coastal Commission.  The notice shall contain the following information:



 



   (a)   a statement that the Coastal Development is within the Coastal
Zone;



 



   (b)   the date of filing of the application and the name of the
Applicant;



 



   (c)   the case number assigned to the application;



 



   (d)   a description of the Coastal Development and its proposed
location;



 



   (e)   the date, time, and place at which the public hearing on the
application will be heard;



 



   (f)   a brief description of the general procedure concerning the
conduct of the public hearing and City actions;



 



   (g)   the procedure for City and Coastal Commission appeals, if any,
including any required fees;



 



   (h)   If applicable, the criteria for eligibility to appeal to the
Coastal Commission; and



 



   (i)   a statement that an interested person must request to be on
the mailing list for the particular Coastal Development in order to receive
notice of the written determination and in order to appeal to the City.



 



   4.   Continuation of Public Hearing – Notice.  If a decision on a
Coastal Development Permit is continued to a time which is neither (a)
previously stated in the notice of public hearing provided pursuant to this
subsection, nor (b) announced at the hearing as being continued to a time
certain, notice of the further hearings or action on the proposed Coastal
Development shall be provided in the same manner, and within the same time
limits, as established in this subsection.



 



   5.   Posted Notice.  At the time the application is submitted for
filing, the Applicant must post, in a conspicuous place, and as close as
possible to the proposed Coastal Development, the City’s notice that an
application has been filed for a Coastal Development Permit.  The notice
shall contain specific information as to the nature of the proposed Coastal
Development and be in a form as required by the approving department for that
purpose.



 



   F.   Decision Process for Coastal Development Permits.



 



   1.   Public Hearing.  The Approving Authority shall hold a public
hearing on any application for a Coastal Development Permit for an Appealable
Development except as waived in Subdivision 2.  It shall hold the hearing at
least ten calendar days following the mailing of the notice required in
Section E.2. and shall consolidate the hearing with any other public hearing
required for any other approvals required by the Los Angeles Municipal Code
or other City ordinance.



 



   2.   Waiver of Public Hearing.  The Approving Authority may waive
the public hearing for Coastal Development in the non-appealable area and may
propose to waive the requirement for a public hearing for Coastal Development
in the Appealable Area if it determines that the Coastal Development meets
the following criteria:



 



   (a)   The Coastal Development is consistent with the Certified Local
Coastal Program;



 



   (b)   The Coastal Development requires no discretionary approvals
other than a Coastal Development Permit; and



 



   (c)   The Coastal Development has no adverse effect either
individually or cumulatively on coastal resources or public access to the
shoreline or along the coast.



 



   3.   Initial Decision.  If an application for a Coastal Development
Permit is submitted to the City and there is no application for another
quasi-judicial or legislative approval, the initial decision shall be made by
the Director or City Engineer, whichever has jurisdiction.  The Director or
City Engineer may approve, conditionally approve or deny a Coastal
Development Permit.



 



   4.   Findings.



 



   (a)   An application for a Coastal Development Permit shall be
approved if the Approving Authority, based on information obtained during an
investigation and/or public hearing, if applicable, makes specific written
findings justifying the City’s action, including any conditions imposed in
order to bring the Coastal Development into conformity with the certified
Local Coastal Program.  These findings shall include the following:



 



   (1)   that the proposed Coastal Development is in conformity with
the certified Local Coastal Program;



 



   (2)   that the Coastal Development is in conformity with all
applicable provisions of any adopted community plan and specific plan for the
area; and



 



   (3)   where applicable, that any Coastal Development located between
the First Public Road Paralleling the Sea and the sea or shoreline of any
body of water located within the Coastal Zone is in conformity with the
public access and public recreation policies of Chapter 3 of Division 20 of
the California Public Resources Code.



 



   (b)   The Approving Authority, in approving an application for a
Coastal Development Permit, shall impose any conditions considered necessary
to insure that the proposed use will be consistent with the above findings.



   



   (c)   An application for a Coastal Development Permit shall be
denied when the evidence submitted by the Applicant and/or presented at a
public hearing fails to support the findings above to the satisfaction of the
Approving Authority.



   



   5.   Transmittal of Written Decision.  Upon making a written
decision, the Approving Authority shall transmit a copy by first class mail
to each Applicant, to all persons who have requested to be on the mailing
list for the particular Coastal Development or for all coastal decisions
within the Coastal Zone, to all property owners and residents within 100 feet
of the perimeter of the parcel on which the Coastal Development is proposed,
exclusive of streets, and to the Coastal Commission. 



 



   G.   Effective Date of City Action.  The City shall issue a Coastal
Development Permit only:



 



   1.   For a non-appealable development, fifteen days after the final
City action, provided no appeal has been filed, or provided the Coastal
Commission has not asserted jurisdiction.



      



   2.   For an Appealable Development, only after receiving the final
City action and notification that the ten working day appeal period to the
Coastal Commission established by California Code of Regulations has ended
and no appeal was filed; or an appeal was filed and the Coastal Commission
made a determination of no substantial issue with the City’s decision.



 



   3.   If a decision on a Coastal Development Permit is appealed to
the Coastal Commission and the Coastal Commission determines that a
substantial issue exists, the issuance of the permit will be regulated by the
Coastal Commission.



 



   H.   Procedures for Appeals of a Coastal Development Permit.



 



   1.   Filing of an Appeal. 



 



   (a)   An Applicant or any other person aggrieved by the initial
decision on a Coastal Development Permit may appeal the decision to the Area
Planning Commission or to the Board of Public Works for a Public Project or
for a private project where the approval of the underlying permit is within
the jurisdiction of the City Engineer.  The appeal on an Appealable
Development and non-appealable development shall be filed within 15 days of
the date of mailing of the decision.



 



   (b)   The appeal shall set forth specifically the points at issue,
the reasons for the appeal, and the basis upon which the appellant claims
there was an error or abuse of discretion by the decision-maker.  Any appeal
not filed within the 15-day filing period shall not be considered by the Area
Planning Commission or Board of Public Works.  The filing of an appeal stays
proceedings in the matter until the Commission or Board has made a
decision.  Once an appeal is filed, the initial decision-maker shall
transmit the appeal and the file to the Commission or Board,  together with
any reports responding to the allegations made in the appeal.



 



   2.   Notice of Appellate Decision.  Before acting on any appeal of
a Coastal Development Permit, the Area Planning Commission or Board of Public
Works shall set the matter for hearing, with written notice of the hearing
sent at least 15 days prior to the meeting to each Applicant, the
appellant(s), all persons who have requested to be on the mailing list for
the particular Coastal Development or for all coastal decisions within the
Coastal Zone, to all property owners and residents within 100 feet of the
parcel on which the Coastal Development is proposed, exclusive of streets,
and the Coastal Commission.



 



   3.   Time for Appellate Decision.  The Area Planning Commission or
Board of Public Works shall act within 75 days after the expiration of the
appeal period or within any additional period mutually agreed upon by the
Applicant and the Commission or Board.



 



   4.   Appellate Decision.  The Area Planning Commission or Board of
Public Works may reverse or modify the initial decision, in whole or in
part.  In reversing or modifying the initial decision, the Commission or
Board shall make the same findings required to be made by the initial
decision-maker and shall indicate why the initial decision-maker erred or
abused its discretion.



 



   I.   Recordation of the Coastal Development Permit.  Within 14 days
of the issuance of the Coastal Development Permit for a Coastal Development
subject to the jurisdiction of the Director, the Applicant shall record the
Permit with the Los Angeles County Recorder’s Office and provide a
certified copy to the City Planning Department.



 



   J.   Notice of Final City Action.  Within seven calendar days of a
final decision on an application for any Coastal Development, the Approving
Authority shall provide notice of its action, at the expense of the
Applicant, by first class mail to the Coastal Commission and to any persons
who specifically requested notice of the final action by submitting a
self-addressed, stamped envelope to the Approving Authority.  The notice
shall include conditions of approval, written findings, and, if applicable,
the procedures for appeal to the Coastal Commission.



 



   K.   Notification of Failure to Act and Approval by Operation of Law.



 



   1.   Notification by Applicant.  If the Approving Authority has
failed to act on an application within the time limits set forth in
Government Code Sections 65950-65957.1, the person claiming a right to
proceed pursuant to those Code sections shall notify, in writing, the
Approving Authority and the Coastal Commission and all persons entitled to
receive notice pursuant to Subdivision 2. of Subsection H. of this section
that the Coastal Development has been approved by operation of law.  The
notice shall specify the application which is claimed to have been approved.



 



   2.   Notification by Approving Authority.  When the Approving
Authority determines that the time limits established pursuant to Government
Code Sections 65950- 65957.1 have expired, and that the notice required
pursuant to Subdivision 2. of Subsection H. of this section has occurred, the
Approving Authority shall, within seven calendar days of its determination,
notify any person entitled to receive notice pursuant to Subdivision 2. of
Subsection H. of this section that it has taken final action by operation of
law pursuant to Government Code Sections 65950-65957.1, and that the
application, if it is for an Appealable Development, may be appealed to the
Coastal Commission pursuant to California Code of Regulations, Title 14,
Section 13110, et seq.



 



   L.   Appeal Procedures for Multiple Applications Including a Coastal
Development Permit.  The Approving Authority for multiple applications for a
Coastal Development Permit and other quasi-judicial or legislative approvals
shall be as established in Section 12.36 A. through E.  However, the appeal
procedures for the consolidated action shall follow the procedural
requirements for notice, public hearing and final action of an initial
decision on a Coastal Development Permit in accordance with Subsections D.,
E. and F. of this section.



 



   M.   Duration of Permits.



 



   1.   Validity.  A Coastal Development Permit that was granted
pursuant to the provisions of this section shall run with the land and
continue to be valid upon any changes of ownership of the land or any changes
to the existing building or structure on the land.



 



   2.   Termination.  A permit which has not been used within the time
specified in  the permit, or, if no time is specified, within two years
after the granting of the permit, shall become void.  The Director or City
Engineer, whichever has jurisdiction, may grant extensions of time for the
utilization of the permit, provided the extension is requested prior to the
expiration date, under the provisions of Subsection O. of this section.  In
cases where other approvals are granted concurrently with the Coastal
Development Permit, the time limits and extensions shall be the same as those
for the other approvals.  However, the Coastal Development Permit shall
become void after six years.



 



   3.   Utilization of Permit.  A Coastal Development Permit shall be
considered used when construction or other development authorized by that
permit, which would be prohibited in that location if no Coastal Development
Permit had been issued, has commenced.  A Coastal Development Permit shall
automatically cease to be in effect if the use for which the permit was
granted has ceased or has been suspended for a consecutive period of two or
more years.



 



   N.   Revocation.



 



   1.   Failure to Comply with Conditions.  If the Director or City
Engineer, whichever has jurisdiction, determines that the conditions of any
Coastal Development Permit granted pursuant to this section have not been
complied with, the Director or City Engineer may give notice to the record
owner or lessee of the real property to appear at a time and place fixed by
the Director or City Engineer and show cause why the determination of the
Approving Authority granting the Coastal Development Permit should not be
rescinded.  An appeal from a revocation action may be taken in the same
manner prescribed in Subsection H. of this section.



 



   2.   Request by Aggrieved Person.  Any aggrieved person may request
revocation of a permit by application to the Director or City Engineer,
whichever has jurisdiction, specifying with particularity the grounds for
revocation.  The Director or City Engineer shall review the stated grounds
for revocation and shall determine whether to initiate revocation
proceedings.  An appeal from a revocation action may be taken in the same
manner prescribed in Subsection H of this section.



 



   O.   Extensions of Time.



 



   1.   Application.  Prior to the expiration of a Coastal Development
Permit, an Applicant may apply for a one year extension of the permit. 
Prior to the expiration of any extension, the Applicant may apply for another
one year extension of the permit.  An application for an extension of time
shall automatically keep the permit in effect until the Approving Authority
has acted upon the request.  However, if construction has not commenced at
the time the application is made, construction may not commence after the
initial expiration date until the Approving Authority has acted upon the
request.  The application shall state the reasons for the request and shall
be accompanied by evidence of a valid, unexpired permit and of the
Applicant’s continued property interest.



 



   2.   Procedures.  The procedures for applying for an extension of
time shall be in accordance with Subsections D.,  E., and F. of this
section. 



 



   3.   Findings.  The Approving Authority shall only grant an
extension if the Approving Authority can make the same findings as were
required for the original permit, with no new conditions, and must make an
additional finding that there are no changed circumstances which would affect
the Coastal Development’s consistency with the Local Coastal Program. 



 



   4.   Appeal.  An extension of time for a Coastal Development Permit
may be appealed in accordance with Subsection H. of this section.  However,
in addition to the notice provisions required in that subsection, the
Approving Authority shall also notify any persons who objected to the
Approving Authority’s approval of an extension.



 



   P.   Immaterial Changes to a Coastal Development Permit. 



 



   1.   Application.  An application for an immaterial change to a
Coastal Development Permit shall be filed with the Approving Authority that
approved the existing permit.



 



   2.   Approval.  If the Approving Authority finds that the proposed
change conforms to the original findings and conditions required for the
Coastal Development Permit and is in substantial conformance with that
Permit, then the Approving Authority may approve the proposed change.



 



   Q.   Permit Amendments.



 



   1.   Application.  If the Approving Authority that originally
granted the Coastal Development Permit finds that a proposed change is not in
substantial conformance with the original Coastal Development Permit, the
holder of the Permit may apply for an amendment to the Permit in the same
manner as an application for a new Coastal Development Permit.  This
application shall contain a description of the proposed amendment, the reason
for the amendment, together with maps, plans or other material appropriate to
the request, and shall be accompanied by evidence of a valid, unexpired
permit and of the Applicant’s continued legal ownership or interest in the
property.



 



   2.   Procedures.  The procedures for an amendment shall be the same
as would be required of a new application at the same location in accordance
with Sections D., E. and F. of this section.



 



   3.   Appeals.  Appeals of decisions on amendment applications may
be made in the same manner as appeals of decisions on the original Coastal
Development Permit in Subsection H. above.



 



   R.   Emergency Permits.  An Emergency permit shall only be issued
in cases where an Emergency necessitates immediate action that would normally
require a Coastal Development Permit, and where the worth of any permanent
structures erected does not exceed $25,000.



 



   1.   Applications.  An application for an Emergency Coastal
Development Permit shall be made to the Director or the City Engineer,
whichever has jurisdiction, within three days of the Emergency or discovery
of the danger.  The following information shall be included in the request:



 



   (a)   nature of the Emergency;



 



   (b)   cause of the Emergency, if this can be determined;



 



   (c)   location of the Emergency;



 



   (d)   the remedial, protective or preventive work required to deal
with the Emergency; and



 



   (e)   the circumstances during the Emergency that justify the
proposed course of action, including the probable consequences of failing to
take action.



 



   2.   Verification of Emergency.  The Director or City Engineer
shall verify the facts, including the existence and the nature of the
Emergency, insofar as time  permits.



 



   3.   Procedure.  The Director or City Engineer shall provide public
notice of the Emergency work, with the extent and type of notice determined
on the basis of the nature of the Emergency.  The Director or City Engineer
shall not issue an Emergency permit for any work that falls within the
provisions of Public Resources Code Sections 30519(b) and 30601.  The
Director or City Engineer may grant an Emergency permit upon reasonable terms
and conditions, if the Director or City Engineer finds that:



 



   (a)   an Emergency exists that requires action more quickly than the
regular permit process would allow, and the work can or will be completed
within 30 days, unless otherwise specified by the terms of the permit;



 



   (b)   public comment on the proposed Emergency action has been
reviewed, if time allows; and



 



   (c)   the work proposed would be consistent with the certified Local
Coastal Program and any adopted, relevant community or specific plans.



 



   4.   Compliance. An Emergency permit shall be valid for not more
than 60 days from the date of issuance.  Prior to expiration of the
Emergency permit, the permittee must submit a Coastal Development Permit
application for the Coastal Development or else remove the Coastal
Development undertaken pursuant to the Emergency permit in its entirety and
restore the site to its previous condition. Failure to comply with the
provisions of this subsection or failure by the permittee to properly notice
and report any Emergency actions may result in the revocation of the
Emergency permit.



 



   5.   Reporting.  The Director or City Engineer shall notify the
Coastal Commission of the issuance of an Emergency permit by phone or letter
as soon as possible, but in any event within three days of the issuance of
the Emergency permit.



 



 



SEC. 12.20.3.  “HP” HISTORIC PRESERVATION OVERLAY ZONE.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 184,903, Eff. 6/17/17.)



 



   The following regulations shall apply in an HP Historic Preservation
Overlay Zone:



 



   A.   Purpose.  It is hereby declared as a matter of public policy
that the recognition, preservation, enhancement, and use of buildings,
structures, Landscaping, Natural Features, and areas within the City of Los
Angeles having Historic, architectural, cultural or aesthetic significance
are required in the interest of the health, economic prosperity, cultural
enrichment and general welfare of the people.  The purpose of this section
is to:



 



   1.   Protect and enhance the use of buildings, structures, Natural
Features, and areas, which are reminders of the City’s history, or which
are unique and irreplaceable assets to the City and its neighborhoods, or
which are worthy examples of past architectural styles;



 



   2.   Develop and maintain the appropriate settings and environment
to preserve these buildings, structures, Landscaping, Natural Features, and
areas;



 



   3.   Enhance property values, stabilize neighborhoods and/or
communities, render property eligible for financial benefits, and promote
tourist trade and interest;



 



   4.   Foster public appreciation of the beauty of the City, of the
accomplishments of its past as reflected through its buildings, structures,
Landscaping, Natural Features, and areas;



 



   5.   Promote education by preserving and encouraging interest in
cultural, social, economic, political and architectural phases of its history;



 



   6.   Promote the involvement of all aspects of the City’s diverse
neighborhoods in the historic preservation process; and



 



   7.   To ensure that all procedures comply with the California
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA).



 



   B.   Definitions.  For the purposes of this Section 12.20.3, the
following words and phrases are defined:



 



   1.   ADDITION is an extension or increase in floor area or height of
a building or structure.



 



   2.   ALTERATION is any exterior change or modification of a
building, structure, Landscaping, Natural Feature or lot within a Historic
Preservation Overlay Zone, including, but not limited to, changing exterior
paint color, removal of significant trees or Landscaping, installation or
removal of fencing, and similar Projects, and including street features,
furniture or fixtures.



 



   3.   BOARD is the respective Historic Preservation Board as
established by this section.



 



   4.   BUILDING COVERAGE is the area of a parcel covered by buildings
measured from the outside of the exterior perimeter of a building, including
covered porches, patios, and detached or attached accessory structures. 
Building Coverage does not include uncovered areas such as paved parking,
driveways, walkways, steps, terraces, decks, and porches; or roof overhangs
and architectural projections not designed for shelter or occupancy.



 



   5.   CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS is an approved certificate
issued for the construction, Additions over established thresholds outlined
in Section 12.20.3 K., Demolition, Reconstruction, Alteration, removal, or
relocation of any publicly or privately owned building, structure,
Landscaping, Natural Feature, or lot within a Historic Preservation Overlay
Zone that is identified as a Contributing Element in the Historic Resources
Survey for the zone, including street features, furniture or fixtures.



 



   6.   CERTIFICATE OF COMPATIBILITY is an approved certificate issued
for the construction of a new building or structure on a lot, Demolition, or
building replacement of an element, identified as Non-Contributing, or not
listed, in the Historic Resources Survey for the zone.



 



   7.   CONTRIBUTING ELEMENT is any building, structure, Landscaping,
Natural Feature identified on the Historic Resources Survey as contributing
to the Historic significance of the Historic Preservation Overlay Zone,
including a building or structure which has been altered, where the nature
and extent of the Alterations are determined reversible by the Historic
Resources Survey.



 



   8.   CULTURAL is anything pertaining to the concepts, skills,
habits, arts, instruments or institutions of a given people at any given
point in time.



 



   9.   DEMOLITION is the removal of more than 50% of the perimeter
wall framing, the removal of more than 50% of the roof framing, or the
substantial removal of the exterior of a facade in the Street-Visible Area.



 



   10.   HISTORIC is any building, structure, Landscaping, Natural
Feature, or lot, including street features, furniture or fixtures which
depicts, represents or is associated with persons or phenomena which
significantly affect or which have significantly affected the functional
activities, heritage, growth or development of the City, State, or Nation.



 



   11.   HISTORIC RESOURCES SURVEY is a document, which identifies all
contributing and non-contributing buildings, structures and all contributing
Landscaping, Natural Features and lots, individually or collectively,
including street features, furniture or fixtures, and which is certified as
to its accuracy and completeness by the Cultural Heritage Commission.



 



   12.   HISTORICAL PROPERTY CONTRACT is a contract, between an Owner
or Owners of a Historical-Cultural Monument or a Contributing Element and the
City of Los Angeles, which meets all requirements of California Government
Code Sections 50281 and 50282 and 19.140, et seq., of the Los Angeles
Administrative Code.



 



   13.   LANDSCAPING is the design and organization of landforms,
hardscape, and softscape, including individual groupings of trees, shrubs,
groundcovers, vines, pathways, arbors, etc.



 



   14.   MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR is any work done to correct the
deterioration, decay of, or damage to a building, structure or lot, or any
part thereof, including replacement in-kind where required, and which does
not involve a change in the existing design, materials, or exterior paint
color.



 



   15.   MONUMENT is any building, structure, Landscaping, Natural
Feature, or lot designated as a City Historic-Cultural Monument.



 



   16.   NATURAL FEATURE is any significant tree, plant life,
geographical or geological feature identified individually or collectively on
the Historic Resources Survey as contributing to the Cultural or Historical
significance of the Historic Preservation Overlay Zone.



 



   17.   NON-CONTRIBUTING ELEMENT is any building, structure, Natural
Feature, lot, or Landscaping, that is identified in the Historic Resources
Survey as a Non-Contributing Element, or not listed in the Historic Resources
Survey.



 



   18.   OWNER is any person, association, partnership, firm,
corporation or public entity identified as the holder of title on any
property as shown on the records of the City Engineer or on the last
assessment roll of the County of Los Angeles, as applicable.  For purposes
of this section, the term Owner shall also refer to an appointed
representative of an association, partnership, firm, corporation, or public
entity which is a recorded Owner.



 



   19.   PRESERVATION ZONE is any area of the City of Los Angeles
containing buildings, structures, Landscaping, Natural Features or lots
having Historic, architectural, Cultural or aesthetic significance and
designated as a Historic Preservation Overlay Zone under the provisions of
this section.



 



   20.   PROJECT is the Addition, Alteration, construction, Demolition,
Reconstruction, Rehabilitation, relocation, removal or Restoration of the
exterior of any building, structure, Landscaping, Natural Feature, or lot,
within a Preservation Zone, except as provided under Subsection H.  A
Project may or may not require a building permit, and may include, but not be
limited to changing exterior paint color, removal of significant trees or
Landscaping, installation or removal of fencing, replacement of windows
and/or doors which are character-defining features of architectural styles,
removal of features that may or may not have a building permit, or changes to
public spaces and similar activities.



 



   21.   RECONSTRUCTION is the act or process of reproducing by new
construction the exact form, features and details of a vanished building,
portion of a building, structure, landscape, Natural Feature, or object as it
appeared at a specific period of time, on its original or a substitute lot.



 



   22.   REHABILITATION is the act or process of returning a property
to a state of utility, through repair or Alteration, which makes possible an
efficient contemporary use while preserving those portions or features of the
property which are significant to its Historical, architectural and Cultural
values.



 



   23.   RENTER is any person, association, partnership, firm,
corporation, or public entity which has rented or leased a dwelling unit or
other structure within a Preservation Zone for a continuous time period of at
least three years.  For purposes of this section, the term Renter shall also
refer to an appointed representative of an association, partnership, firm,
corporation, or public entity which is a renter.



 



   24.   RESTORATION is the act or process of accurately recovering the
form, features and details of a property as it appeared at a particular
period of time by means of the removal of later work or by the replacement of
missing earlier work.



 



   25.   RIGHT-OF-WAY is the dedicated area that includes roadways,
medians and/or sidewalks.



 



   26.   STREET VISIBLE AREA is any portion of the front, side, and
rear facades that can be seen from any adjacent street, alley, or sidewalk,
or that would be visible but are currently obstructed by landscaping,
fencing, or freestanding walls.  The Street Visible Area includes
undeveloped portions of the lot where new construction would be visible from
the adjacent street or sidewalk; facades that are generally visible from
non-adjacent streets due to steep topography; or second stories visible over
adjacent one-story structures.



 



   C.   Relationship to Other Provisions of the Code.  Whenever the
City Council establishes, adds land to, eliminates land from or repeals in
its entirety a Preservation Zone, the provisions of this section shall not be
construed as an intent to abrogate any other provision of this Code.  Any
street, or portion thereof, located within or sharing a boundary with a
Preservation Zone(s), is not subject to the street dedication and/or
improvement requirements as set forth in Sections 12.37 A. - C. and 17.05 of
the Los Angeles Municipal Code unless requested by the Director of Planning,
provided that the existing sidewalk(s) is in compliance with any
accessibility guidelines within the public right-of-way that are adopted to
comply with Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act.  When it
appears that there is a conflict, the most restrictive requirements of this
Code shall apply, except for a requirement in this section, which may
compromise public safety if enforced.



 



   D.   Historic Preservation Board.



 



   1.   Establishment.  There is hereby established for each
Preservation Zone a Historic Preservation Board.  A Board may serve two or
more Preservation Zones in joint name and administration.  Preservation
Zones may have separate, individual Preservation Plans administered under one
Board.  Each Board shall have, as part of its name, words linking it to its
area(s) of administration and distinguishing it from all other boards.



 



   2.   Composition.  A Board shall be comprised of five members.
Where a Board serves two or more Preservation Zones, the Board shall be
comprised of seven members.  At least three members shall be Renters or
Owners of property in the Preservation Zone(s), with a Renter or property
Owner representative from each Preservation Zone on the Board.  In the event
a Preservation Zone is established for an area insufficient in size to
provide for a Board whose members meet the requirements of this subsection,
for appointment purposes only, the area may be expanded to include the
community plan area in which the Preservation Zone is located.  In the event
a Board still cannot be comprised of members who meet the requirements of
this subsection, the Director of Planning shall assume all the powers and
duties otherwise assigned to the Board for the Preservation Zone(s) until a
Board can be established.



 



   3.   Term of Membership.  Members of the Board shall serve for a
term of four years. Members of the Board whose terms have expired may
continue to serve on the Board until their replacements are appointed.



 



   4.   Appointment of Members.  All members shall have demonstrated a
knowledge of, and interest in, the culture, buildings, structures, historic
architecture, history and features of the area encompassed by the
Preservation Zone and, to the extent feasible, shall have experience in
historic preservation.  The appointing authorities are encouraged to
consider the cultural diversity of the Preservation Zone in making their
appointments.  Appointees serve at the pleasure of the appointing authority,
and the appointment may be rescinded at any time prior to the expiration of a
member’s term.  To the maximum extent practicable, members shall be
appointed as follows:



 



   (a)   



 



 


Appointing Body

 

Appointee Qualifications




Mayor

 

One member having extensive real estate or construction experience.



Councilmember
 

One member who is a Renter or Owner of Property in the Preservation Zone(s)
shall be appointed by the Councilmember of the district in which the
Preservation Zone is located.

Where a Board serves two or more Preservation Zones two Renters or Owners of
Property shall be appointed.



Cultural Heritage Commission
 

One member shall be an architect licensed by the State of California.



Cultural Heritage Commission
 

One member who is a Renter or Owner of Property in the Preservation Zone(s).

Where a Board serves two or more Preservation Zones two Renters or Owners of
Property shall be appointed.



Board
 

One member who is a Renter or Owner of Property in the Preservation Zone(s),
pursuant to the criteria set forth in Subsection D.4.(d).




 



   (b)   Where a Board serves two or more Preservation Zones in joint
name and administration, a Renter or property Owner representative shall be
appointed for each Preservation Zone the Board serves.



 



   (c)   In cases where the Preservation Zone(s) is/are located in more
than one council district, the appointment shall be made by the Councilmember
representing the greatest land area in the Preservation Zone(s).



 



   (d)   The Board shall consider appointee suggestions from the
certified Neighborhood Council representing the district in which the
Preservation Zone(s) is/are located.  In cases where the Preservation
Zone(s) is/are located in an area represented by more than one Neighborhood
Council, the appointee suggestions shall be made by the Neighborhood Council
representing the greatest land area in the Preservation Zone(s).  In those
Preservation Zones containing no Certified Neighborhood Councils, or if,
after notification of a vacancy by the Planning Department, the Certified
Neighborhood Council fails to make suggestions within 45 days, or at least
one Certified Neighborhood Council meeting has been held, whichever occurs
first, the Board may make its appointment without delay.



 



   5.   Vacancies.  In the event of a vacancy occurring during the
term of a member of the Board, the same body or official, or their
successors, who appointed the member shall make a new appointment.  The new
appointment shall serve a four-year term beginning on the date of
appointment.  Where the member is required to have specified qualifications,
the vacancy shall be filled with a person having these qualifications.  If
the appointing authority does not make an appointment within 60 days of the
vacancy, the President of the City Council shall make a temporary appointment
to serve until the appointing authority makes an appointment to occupy the
seat or for a period of no more than one year.



 



   6.   Expiration of Term.  Upon expiration of a term for any member
of the Board, the appointment for the next succeeding term shall be made by
the same body or official, or their successors, which made the previous
appointment.  No member of a Board shall serve more than two consecutive
four-year terms.



 



   7.   Boardmember Performance.  Boardmembers shall be expected to
regularly attend scheduled Board meetings and fully participate in the powers
and duties of the Board.  Appointees serve at the pleasure of the appointing
authority and the appointment may be rescinded at any time prior to the
expiration of a member’s term.  A Boardmember with more than three
consecutive unexcused absences or eight unexcused absences in a year period
from regularly scheduled meetings may be removed by the appointing
authority.  Excused absences may be granted by the Board chair.  In the
event a Boardmember accrues unexcused absences, the Board shall notify the
appointing authority.



 



   8.   Organization and Administration.  Each Board shall schedule
regular meetings at fixed times within the month with a minimum of two
meetings a month.  Meetings may be canceled if no deemed complete
applications are received at least three working days prior to the next
scheduled meeting.  There shall be at least one meeting a year.  The Board
shall establish rules, procedures and guidelines as it may deem necessary to
properly exercise its function.  The Board shall elect a Chairperson and
Vice-Chairperson who shall serve for a one-year period.  The Board shall
designate a Secretary who shall serve at the Board’s pleasure.  For a
five-member Board, three members shall constitute a quorum.  For a
seven-member Board, four members shall constitute a quorum. Decisions shall
be determined by majority vote of the Board.  Public minutes and records
shall be kept of all meetings and proceedings showing the attendance,
resolutions, findings, determinations and decisions, including the vote of
each member.  To the extent possible, the staff of the Department of City
Planning may assist the Board in performing its duties and functions.



 



   9.   Power and Duties.  When considering any matter under its
jurisdiction, the Board shall have the following power and duties:



 



   (a)   To evaluate any proposed changes to the boundaries of the
Preservation Zone it administers and make recommendations to the City
Planning Commission, Cultural Heritage Commission and City Council.



 



   (b)   To evaluate any Historic Resources Survey, resurvey, partial
resurvey, or modification undertaken within the Preservation Zone it
administers and make recommendations to the City Planning Commission,
Cultural Heritage Commission and City Council.



 



   (c)   To study, review and evaluate any proposals for the
designation of Historic- Cultural Monuments within the Preservation Zone it
administers and make recommendations to the Cultural Heritage Commission and
City Council, and to request that other City departments develop procedures
to provide notice to the Boards of actions relating to Historic-Cultural
Monuments.



 



   (d)   To evaluate applications for Certificates of Appropriateness
or Certificates of Compatibility and make recommendations to the Director or
the Area Planning Commission.



 



   (e)   To encourage understanding of and participation in historic
preservation by residents, visitors, private businesses, private
organizations and governmental agencies.



 



   (f)   In pursuit of the purposes of this section, to render guidance
and advice to any Owner or occupant on construction, Demolition, Alteration,
removal or relocation of any Monument or any building, structure,
Landscaping, Natural Feature or lot within the Preservation Zone it
administers.  This guidance and advice shall be consistent with approved
procedures and guidelines, and the Preservation Plan, or in absence of a
Plan, the guidance and advice shall be consistent with the Secretary of
Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation and Guidelines for Rehabilitating
Historic Buildings.



 



   (g)   To tour the Preservation Zone it represents on a regular
basis, to promote the purposes of this section and to report to appropriate
City agencies matters which may require enforcement action.



 



   (h)   To assist in the updating of the Historic Resources Survey for
the Preservation Zone utilizing the criteria in Subsection F.3.(c), below.



 



   (i)   To make recommendations to decision makers concerning façade
easements, covenants, and the imposition of other conditions for the purposes
of historic preservation.



 



   (j)   To make recommendations to the City Council concerning the
utilization of grants and budget appropriations to promote historic
preservation.



 



   (k)   To assist in the preparation of a Preservation Plan, which
clarifies and elaborates upon these regulations as they apply to the
Preservation Zone, and which contains the elements listed in Subsection E.3.



 



   10.   Conflict of Interest.  No Boardmember shall discuss with
anyone the merits of any matter pending before the Board other than during a
duly called meeting of the Board or subcommittee of the Board.  No member
shall accept professional employment on a case that has been acted upon by
the Board in the previous 12 months or is reasonably expected to be acted
upon by the Board in the next 12 months.



 



   E.   Preservation Plan.  A Preservation Plan clarifies and
elaborates upon these regulations as they apply to individual Preservation
Zones.  A Preservation Plan is used by the Director, Board, property Owners
and residents in the application of preservation principles within a
Preservation Zone.



 



   1.   Preparation of a Preservation Plan.  A draft Preservation Plan
shall be made available by the Board for review and comment to property
Owners and Renters within the Preservation Zone.



 



   (a)   Creation of a Preservation Plan where a Board exists.  Where
established, a Board, with the assistance of the Director, shall prepare a
Preservation Plan, which may be prepared with the assistance of historic
preservation groups.



 



   (b)   Creation of a Preservation Plan where no Board exists.  Where
no Board exists, or has yet to be appointed, the Director, in consultation
with the Councilmember(s) representing the Preservation Zone, may create a
working committee of diverse neighborhood stakeholders to prepare a
Preservation Plan for the Preservation Zone.  This committee shall not
assume any duties beyond preparation of the Preservation Plan.



 



   2.   Approval of a Preservation Plan.



 



   (a)   Commission Hearing and Notice.  A draft Preservation Plan
shall be set for a public hearing before the City Planning Commission or a
hearing officer as directed by the City Planning Commission prior to the
Commission action.  Notice of the hearing shall be given as provided in
Section 12.24 D.2. of this Code.



 



   (b)   Cultural Heritage Commission Recommendation.  The Cultural
Heritage Commission shall submit its recommendation regarding a proposed
Preservation Plan within 45 days from the date of the submission to the
Commission.  Upon action, or failure to act, the Cultural Heritage
Commission shall transmit its recommendation, if any, comments, and any
related files to the City Planning Commission.



 



   (c)   Decision by City Planning Commission.  Following notice and
public hearing, pursuant to Subsection E.2.(a), above, the City Planning
Commission may make its report and approve, approve with changes, or
disapprove a Preservation Plan.



 



   3.   Elements.  A Preservation Plan shall contain the following
elements:



 



   (a)   A mission statement;



 



   (b)   Goals and objectives;



 



   (c)   A function of the Plan section, including the role and
organization of a Preservation Plan, Historic Preservation Overlay Zone
process overview, and work exempted from review, if any, and delegation of
Board authority to the Director, if any;



 



   (d)   The Historic Resources Survey;



 



   (e)   A brief context statement which identifies the Historic,
architectural and Cultural significance of the Preservation Zone;



 



   (f)   The Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation;



 



   (g)   Design guidelines for Rehabilitation or Restoration,
Additions, Alterations, infill and the form of single- and multi-family
residential, commercial, mixed-use and other non- residential buildings,
structures, and public areas.  The guidelines shall use the Secretary of the
Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation and Guidelines for Rehabilitating
Historic Buildings; and



 



   (h)   Preservation incentives and adaptive reuse policies, including
policies concerning adaptive reuse projects permitted under Section 12.24
X.12. of this Code.



 



   4.   Modification of a City Planning Commission Approved
Preservation Plan.  After approval by the City Planning Commission, a
Preservation Plan shall be reviewed by the Board at least every five years,
or as needed.  Any modifications to the Plan resulting from the review shall
be processed pursuant to the provisions of Subsection E., above.



 



   F.   Procedures for Establishment, Boundary Change or Repeal of a
Preservation Zone.



 



   1.   Requirements.  The processing of an initiation or an
application to establish, change the boundaries of or repeal a Preservation
Zone shall conform with all the requirements of Section 12.32 A. through D.
of this Code, and the following additional requirements.



 



   2.   Initiation of Preservation Zone.



 



   (a)   By City Council, the City Planning Commission, the Director of
Planning and the Cultural Heritage Commission.  In addition to  the
provisions of Section 12.32 A., the Cultural Heritage Commission may initiate
proceedings to establish, repeal, or change the boundaries of a Preservation
Zone.  Upon initiation by City Council, the City Planning Commission, the
Director of Planning, or the Cultural Heritage Commission, a Historic
Resources Survey shall be prepared, pursuant to Subdivision 3., below.



 



   (b)   By Application.  The proceedings for the establishment of a
Preservation Zone may also be initiated by Owners or Renters of property
within the boundaries of the proposed or existing Preservation Zone, pursuant
to Section 12.32 S.3.(b) of this Code.



 



   (1)   An Historic Resources Survey shall not be prepared for a
proposed Preservation Zone until such an application is verified by the
Planning Department to contain the signatures of at least 75 percent of the
Owners or lessees of property within the proposed district, pursuant to the
requirements of Section 12.32 S.3.(b) of this Code.



 



   (2)   The application shall not be deemed complete until the
requirements of Subsection F.2.(b)(1), above, are met and an Historic
Resources Survey for the proposed Preservation Zone has been certified by the
Cultural Heritage Commission pursuant to Subdivision 4.(a), below.



 



   3.   Historic Resources Survey.



 



   (a)   Purpose.  Each Preservation Zone shall have an Historic
Resources Survey, which identifies all Contributing and Non-Contributing
Elements and is certified as to its accuracy and completeness by the Cultural
Heritage Commission.



 



   (b)   Context Statement.  In addition to the requirements above,
the Historic Resources Survey shall also include a context statement
supporting a finding establishing the relation between the physical
environment of the Preservation Zone and its history, thereby allowing the
identification of Historic features in the area as contributing or
non-contributing.  The context statement shall represent the history of the
area by theme, place, and time.  It shall define the various Historical
factors which shaped the development of the area.  It shall define a period
of significance for the Preservation Zone, and relate Historic features to
that period of significance.  It may include, but not be limited to,
Historical activities or events, associations with Historic personages,
architectural styles and movements, master architects, designers, building
types, building materials, landscape design, or pattern of physical
development that influenced the character of the Preservation Zone at a
particular time in history.



 



   (c)   Finding of Contribution.  For the purposes of this section,
no building, structure, Landscaping, or Natural Feature shall be considered a
Contributing Element unless it is identified as a Contributing Element in the
Historic Resources Survey for the applicable Preservation Zone.  Features
designated as contributing shall meet one or more of the following criteria:



 



   (1)   Adds to the Historic architectural qualities or Historic
associations for which a property is significant because it was present
during the period of significance, and possesses Historic integrity
reflecting its character at that time; or



 



   (2)   Owing to its unique location or singular physical
characteristics, represents an established feature of the neighborhood,
community or city; or



 



   (3)   Retaining the building, structure, Landscaping, or Natural
Feature, would contribute to the preservation and protection of an Historic
place or area of Historic interest in the City.



 



   (d)   Modification of a Previously Certified Historic Resources
Survey.  The City Council, City Planning Commission, or Director may find
that a previously certified Historic Resources Survey needs to be modified,
and may call for a revision, re-survey, or partial re- survey to a previously
certified survey.  Modifications, including boundary changes, re-surveys,
partial re-surveys, and minor corrections of a previously certified Historic
Resources Survey shall be processed as follows:



 



   (1)   Revisions involving a boundary change, expansion, or
contraction of a Preservation Zone shall be certified by the Cultural
Heritage Commission as to the accuracy of the survey, and shall be forwarded
to the City Planning Commission for recommendation and the City Council for
final action.



 



   (2)   Revisions involving a re-survey or partial re-survey of an
existing Preservation Zone shall be certified by the Cultural Heritage
Commission as to the accuracy of the survey, and shall be forwarded to the
City Planning Commission for final action.



 



   (3)   The correction of technical errors and omissions in a
previously certified Historic Resources Survey can be made by the Director
based on input from the Board and the Cultural Heritage Commission or its
designee.



 



   (e)   Application Procedure for Redesignation of an Individual
Property in a Certified Historic Resources Survey (Technical Correction).



 



   (1)   Application, Form and Contents.  To apply for a technical
correction to a previously certified Historic Resources Survey pursuant to
Section 12.20.3 F.3.(d)(3), an applicant shall file an application with the
Department of City Planning, on a form provided by the Department, and
include all information required by the instructions on the application. 
Prior to deeming the application complete, the Director shall advise the
applicant of the processes to be followed and fees to be paid. Upon receipt
of a complete application, the Director or his/her designee shall review all
documents submitted and have the authority to approve or deny a technical
correction.



 



   (2)   Application Fees.  The application fees for a Property Survey
Redesignation shall be as set forth in Section 19.01 F. of this Code.



 



   4.   Approval Process.



 



   (a)   Cultural Heritage Commission Determination.  The Cultural
Heritage Commission shall certify each Historic Resources Survey as to its
accuracy and completeness, and the establishment of or change in boundaries
of a Preservation Zone upon:  (1) a majority vote and (2) a written finding
that structures, Landscaping, and Natural Features within the Preservation
Zone meet one or more of criteria (1) through (3), inclusive, in Subdivision
3.(c) of Subsection F. within 45 days from the date of the submission to the
Commission.  This time limit may be extended for a specified further time
period if the Cultural Heritage Commission requests an extension, in writing,
from the City Planning Commission.  Upon action, or failure to act, the
Cultural Heritage Commission shall transmit their determination, comments,
and any related files to the City Planning Commission for recommendation.



 



   (b)   City Planning Commission Approval.  The City Planning
Commission shall make its report and recommendation to approve, approve with
changes, or disapprove the consideration to establish, repeal, or change the
boundaries of a Preservation Zone, pursuant to Section 12.32 C. of this
Code.  In granting approval, the City Planning Commission shall find that
the proposed boundaries are appropriate and make the findings of contribution
required in Subsection F.3.(c).  The City Planning Commission shall also
carefully consider the Historic Resources Survey and the determination of the
Cultural Heritage Commission.  The Director and the City Planning Commission
may recommend conditions to be included in the initial Preservation Plan for
a specific Preservation Zone, as appropriate to further the purpose of this
section.



 



   (c)   City Council.  Pursuant to Section 12.32 C.7. of this Code,
the City Council may approve or disapprove the establishment, repeal, or
change in the boundaries of a Preservation Zone.  The City Council may
require that a specific Preservation Zone does not take effect until a
Preservation Plan for the Preservation Zone is first approved by the City
Planning Commission.



 



   G.   Review of Projects in Historic Preservation Overlay Zones. 
All Projects within Preservation Zones, except as exempted in Subsection H.,
shall be submitted in conjunction with an application, if necessary, to the
Department of City Planning upon a form provided for that purpose.  Upon
receipt of an application, the Director shall review a request and find
whether the Project requires a Certificate of Appropriateness, pursuant to
Subsection K.; a Certificate of Compatibility, pursuant to Subsection L.; or
is eligible for review under Conforming Work on Contributing Elements,
pursuant to Subsection I.; or Conforming Work on Non-Contributing Elements,
pursuant to Subsection J.  All questions of Street Visible Area are to be
determined by Department of City Planning Staff.  In instances where
multiple applications are received, which collectively involve an impact to a
Structure or feature in the Street-Visible-Area, a Certificate of
Appropriateness or Certificate of Compatibility may be required for
additional work.



 



   H.   Exemptions.  The provisions of Section 12.20.3 shall not apply
to the following:



 



   1.   The correction of Emergency or Hazardous Conditions where the
Department of Building and Safety, Housing and Community Investment
Department, or other enforcement agency has determined that emergency or
hazardous conditions currently exist and the emergency or hazardous
conditions must be corrected in the interest of the public health, safety and
welfare.  When feasible, the Department of Building and Safety, Housing and
Community Investment Department, or other enforcement agency should consult
with the Director on how to correct the hazardous condition, consistent with
the goals of the Preservation Zone.  However, any other work shall comply
with the provisions of this section.



 



   2.   Department of Public Works improvements located, in whole or in
part, within a Preservation Zone, where the Director finds:



 



   (a)   That the certified Historic Resources Survey for the
Preservation Zone does not identify any Contributing Elements located within
the Right-of-Way and/or where the Right-of- Way is not specifically addressed
in the approved Preservation Plan for the Preservation Zone; and



 



   (b)   Where the Department of Public Works has completed the CEQA
review of the proposed improvement, and the review has determined that the
improvement is exempt from CEQA, or will have no potentially significant
environmental impacts.



 



   The relevant Board shall be notified of the Project, given a
description of the Project, and an opportunity to comment.



 



   3.   Work authorized by an approved Historical Property Contract by
the City Council.



 



   4.   Where a building, structure, Landscaping, Natural Feature or
lot has been designated as a City Historic-Cultural Monument by the City
Council, unless proposed for demolition. However, those properties with
Federal or State historic designation which are not designated as City
Historic-Cultural Monuments or do not have a City Historical Property
Contract are not exempt from review under Section 12.20.3.



 



   5.   Where work consists of Repair to existing structural elements
and foundations with no physical change to the exterior of a building.



 



   6.   Where work consists of interior Alterations that do not result
in a change to an exterior feature.



 



   7.   Where the type of work has been specifically deemed exempt from
review as set forth in the approved Preservation Plan for a specific
Preservation Zone.



 



   I.   Conforming Work on Contributing Elements. Conforming Work may
fall into two categories, Major Conforming Work and Minor Conforming Work. 
It is the further intent of this section to require Conforming Work on
Contributing Elements for some Projects which may, or may not, require a
building permit, including, but not limited to, changing exterior paint
color, removal of significant trees or Landscaping, installation or removal
of fencing, window and door replacement, changes to public spaces, and
similar Projects.  Conforming Work meeting the criteria and thresholds set
forth in this subsection shall not require Certificates of Appropriateness
set forth in Subsection K.



 



   1.   Procedure.  Pursuant to Subsection G., the Director shall
forward applications for Conforming Work on Contributing Elements to the
Board for conformance review and sign off.  The Board may delegate its
review authority to the Director of Planning as specified in the Preservation
Plan approved for the Preservation Zone.



 



   (a)   Application, Form and Contents.  To apply for Conforming Work
on a Contributing Element, an owner shall file an application with the
Department of City Planning and include all information required by the
instructions on the application.  Prior to deeming the application complete,
the Director shall determine and, if necessary, advise the applicant of the
processes to be followed and fees to be paid.



 



   (b)   Application Fees.  The application fees for Major Conforming
Work on a Contributing Element shall be as set forth in Section 19.01 F. 
Minor Conforming Work shall not require an application fee.



 



   2.   Review Criteria.  A request for Conforming Work on
Contributing Elements shall be reviewed for conformity with the Preservation
Plan for the Preservation Zone or, if none exists, the Secretary of
Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation and Guidelines for Rehabilitating
Historic Buildings, and at least one of following conditions:



 



 




Review Criteria for Contributing Elements




Project Scope




(a)   Minor Conforming Work

 
(1)
 

Restoration work, Rehabilitation, Maintenance, and/or Repair of architectural
features on any Contributing Building, structure, Landscaping, Natural
Feature or lot.



(2)
 

Projects that do not require the issuance of a building permit but affect the
building or site, pursuant to Section 91.106.2 of this Code.




(b)   Major Conforming Work

 
(1)
 

Addition(s) to any and all structures on a  lot or new Building(s) that
satisfy all of the following:



(a)   The Addition(s) or new Building(s) result(s) in an increase of less
than twenty (20) percent of the Building Coverage legally existing on the
effective date of the Historic Preservation Overlay Zone;



(b)   The Addition(s) or new Building(s) is/are located outside of a
Street Visible Area;



(c)   No increase in height is proposed; and



(d)   The Addition(s) and/or new Building does/do not  involve two or
more structures.



(2)
 

Construction of detached garage, porte cochere, carport, storage building,
tool or garden shed, or animal-keeping use structure in a Street Visible Area
in which the proposed square footage is equal to less than ten (10) percent
of the lot area.



(3)
 

Demolition of a detached garage, porte cochere, carport, storage building,
tool or garden shed, or animal-keeping use structure pursuant to the criteria
set forth in Subsection I.2(c).



(4)
 

Demolition and Reconstruction taken in response to natural disaster or to
correct a hazardous condition (subject to the provisions of Public Resources
Code Section 5028, where applicable).



(5)
 

Correction of Code Enforcement Conditions.





 



   (c)   Where the Project consists of the Demolition of a detached
garage, porte cochere, carport, storage building, tool or garden shed, or
animal-keeping use structure, the Director of Planning shall review a request
and determine whether such requests qualify for review under Conforming Work,
based on at least one of the following considerations:



 



   (1)   It can be demonstrated that the structure was built outside of
the Period of Significance for the HPOZ through building permits, or where
building permits do not exist, through Sanborn Fire Insurance Maps or
historic records or photographs.



 



   (2)   The Demolition of the structure will not degrade the status of
the lot as a Contributing Element in the Historic Preservation Overlay Zone.



 



   (3)   The Demolition will not affect the integrity and development
pattern of the district as a whole.



 



   Any request for the Demolition of a detached garage, porte cochere,
carport, storage building, tool or garden shed, or animal-keeping use
structure that does not meet one or more of the above criteria shall be
reviewed pursuant to Certificate of Appropriateness provisions in Section
12.20.3 K.4.



 



   3.   Time to Act.  The Board shall act on the request for
Conforming Work on Contributing Elements at its next agendized Board meeting
within 21 days of the Director deeming an application complete, unless the
applicant and the Director mutually agree in writing to an extension of
time.  The applicant may request a transfer of jurisdiction to the Director
if the Board fails to act within 21 days.  Applications reviewed under
Conforming Work shall be agendized by the Board.



 



   4.   Certification.  The Board shall review and sign off a request
for Conforming Work on Contributing Elements if it finds that the work meets
the criteria as set forth in Subdivision 2., above.  The Board does not have
the authority to impose conditions on Conforming Work.  If the Board finds
that the work does not meet the criteria, as set forth in Subdivision 2.,
above, it shall specify in writing as to why.



 



   5.   If an application fails to conform to the criteria of
Conforming Work on Contributing Elements, an applicant may elect to file for
review under the Certificate of Appropriateness procedure pursuant to
Subsection K.



 



   J.   Conforming Work on Non-Contributing Elements.  Conforming Work
may fall into two categories, Major Conforming Work and Minor Conforming
Work.  It is the further intent of this section to require Conforming Work
on Non-Contributing Elements for some Projects which may or may not require a
building permit, including, but not limited to, changing exterior paint
color, removal of trees or Landscaping, installation or removal of fencing,
window and door replacement, changes to public spaces, and similar
Projects.  Conforming Work meeting the criteria and thresholds set forth in
this subsection shall not require Certificates of Compatibility set forth in
Subsection L.  However, an applicant not approved under Subsection J. may
elect to file for a Certificate of Compatibility.



 



   1.   Procedure.  Pursuant to Subsection G., the Director shall
forward applications for Conforming Work on Non-Contributing Elements to the
Board for conformance review and sign off.  The Board may delegate its
review authority to the Director as specified in the Preservation Plan
approved for the Preservation Zone.



 



   (a)   Application, Form and Contents.  To apply for Conforming Work
on a Non- Contributing Element, an owner shall file an application with the
Department of City Planning and include all information required by the
instructions on the application.  Prior to deeming the application complete,
the Director shall determine and, if necessary, advise the applicant of the
processes to be followed and fees to be paid.



 



   (b)   Application Fees.  The application fees for Major Conforming
Work on a Non-Contributing Element shall be as set forth in Section 19.01 F.
of this Code.  Minor Conforming Work shall not require an application fee.



 



   2.   Review Criteria.  A request for Conforming Work on
Non-Contributing Elements shall be reviewed for conformity with the
Preservation Plan for the Preservation Zone, and at least one of following
conditions:



 



 




Review Criteria for Non-Contributing Elements




Project Scope




(a)   Minor Conforming Work

 
(1)
 

Rehabilitation, Maintenance, or Repair of architectural features on any
Non-Contributing building, structure, Landscaping, Natural Feature or lot.



(2)
 

Relocation of buildings or structures dating from the Preservation Zone’s
Period of Significance onto a lot designated as a Non- Contributing Element
in a Preservation Zone.



(3)
 

Projects that do not require the issuance of a building permit but affect the
building or site, pursuant to Section 91.106.2 of this Code.




(b)   Major Conforming  Work

 
(1)
 

Addition(s) to any and all structures on a lot.



(2)
 

Construction or Demolition of a structure located outside of a Street Visible
Area.



(3)
 

Construction of a detached garage, porte cochere, carport, storage building,
tool or garden shed, or animal-keeping use structure located in a Street
Visible Area in which the proposed square footage is equal to less than ten
(10) percent of the lot area.



(4)
 

Relocation or Demolition of a detached garage, porte cochere, carport,
storage building, tool or garden shed, or animal-keeping use structure
located in a Street Visible Area.



(5)
 

Correction of Code Enforcement conditions.





 



   3.   Time to Act.  The Board shall act on a request for Conforming
Work on Non- Contributing Elements at its next agendized Board meeting within
21 days of the Director deeming an application complete, unless the applicant
and the Director mutually agree in writing to an extension of time.  The
applicant may request a transfer of jurisdiction to the Director if the Board
fails to act within the 21 days.  Applications reviewed under Conforming
Work shall be agendized by the Board.



 



   4.   Certification.  The Board shall review and sign off a request
for Conforming Work on Non-Contributing Elements if it finds that the work
meets the criteria as set forth in Subdivision 2., above.  The Board does
not have the authority to impose conditions on Conforming Work.  If the
Board finds that the work does not meet the criteria, as set forth in
Subdivision 2., above, it shall specify in writing as to why.



 



   5.   If an application fails to conform to the criteria of
Conforming Work on Non-Contributing Elements, an applicant may elect to file
for review under the Certificate of Compatibility procedure pursuant to
Subsection L.



 



   K.   Certificate of Appropriateness for Contributing Elements.



 



   1.   Purpose.  It is the intent of this section to require the
issuance of a Certificate of Appropriateness for any Project affecting a
Contributing Element, except as set forth in Subdivision 2.(b), below.  It
is the further intent of this section to require a Certificate of
Appropriateness for some Projects which may or may not require a building
permit, including, but not limited to, changing exterior paint color, removal
of significant trees or Landscaping, installation or removal of fencing,
window and door replacement which are character-defining features of
architectural styles, changes to public spaces and similar Projects. 
However, an applicant not approved under SubsectionI. may elect to file for a
Certificate of Appropriateness.



 



   2.   Requirements.



 



   (a)   Prohibition.  No person shall construct, add to, alter, cause
the Demolition, relocation or removal of any building, structure,
Landscaping, or Natural Feature designated as contributing in the Historic
Resources Survey for a Preservation Zone unless a Certificate of
Appropriateness has been approved for that action pursuant to this section,
with the exception of Conforming Work on Contributing Elements, which shall
not require a Certificate of Appropriateness.  In the event that Demolition,
removal, or relocation has occurred without a Certificate of Appropriateness
for Demolition, removal, or relocation having been approved for such action
pursuant to Section 12.20.3 K.5. below, a Certificate of Appropriateness
shall be based on the existing conditions of the Historic Resource prior to
the Demolition, removal, or relocation.  No Certificate of Appropriateness
shall be approved unless the plans for the construction, Demolition,
Alteration, Addition, relocation, or removal conform with the provisions of
this section.  Any approval, conditional approval, or denial shall include
written findings in support.



 



   (b)   Conforming Work.  Nothing in this section shall be construed
as to require a Certificate of Appropriateness for the ordinary Maintenance
and Repair of any exterior architectural feature of a property within a
Preservation Zone, which does not involve a change in design, material,
color, or outward appearance.  Work meeting the criteria for Conforming Work
on Contributing Elements shall not require a Certificate of Appropriateness.



 



   3.   Procedures For Obtaining a Certificate of Appropriateness.



 



   (a)   Any plan for the construction, Addition, Alteration,
Demolition, Reconstruction, relocation or removal of a building, structure,
Landscaping, or Natural Feature, or any combination designated as
contributing in the Historic Resources Survey for a Preservation Zone shall
be submitted, in conjunction with an application, to the Department of City
Planning upon a form provided for that purpose.  Upon an application being
deemed complete by the Director, one copy each of the application and
relevant documents shall be mailed by the Department of City Planning to both
the Cultural Heritage Commission and to each Board member for the
Preservation Zone for evaluation.



 



   (b)   Application Fees.  The application fees for a Certificate of
Appropriateness shall be as set forth in Section 19.01 F. of this Code.



 



   (c)   Cultural Heritage Commission and Board Recommendations.  A
notice and hearing shall be completed pursuant to Subsection M. below.  The
Cultural Heritage Commission and the Board shall submit their recommendations
to the Director as to whether the Certificate should be approved,
conditionally approved or disapproved.  In the event that the Cultural
Heritage Commission or Board does not submit its recommendations within 30
days of the postmarked date of mailing of the application from the City
Planning Department, the Cultural Heritage Commission or Board shall be
deemed to have forfeited all jurisdiction in the matter and the Certificate
may be approved, conditionally approved or disapproved as filed.  The
applicant and the Director may mutually agree in writing to a longer period
of time for the Board to act.



 



   (d)   Director and Area Planning Commission Determination.  The
Director shall have the authority to approve, conditionally approve or
disapprove a Certificate of Appropriateness for construction, Addition,
Alteration or Reconstruction.  The Area Planning Commission shall have the
jurisdiction to approve, conditionally approve or disapprove a Certificate of
Appropriateness for Demolition, removal or relocation.



 



   (e)   Time to Act.  The Director or Area Planning Commission,
whichever has jurisdiction, shall render a determination on any Certificate
of Appropriateness within 75 days of an application being deemed complete,
unless the applicant and the Director mutually consent in writing to a longer
period.  A copy of the determination shall be mailed to the applicant, the
Board, the Cultural Heritage Commission and any other interested parties. 
No Certificate of Appropriateness shall be issued until the appeal period in
Subsection N. has expired or until any appeal has been resolved.



 



   (f)   Other City Approvals.  The requirements for a Certificate of
Appropriateness are in addition to other City approvals (building permits,
variances, etc.) or other legal requirements, such as Public Resources Code
Section 5028, which may be required.  The time periods specified above may
be extended, if necessary, with the written mutual consent of the applicant
and the Director.



 



   (g)   Modification of an Approved Certificate of Appropriateness. 
Once a Certificate of Appropriateness becomes effective, any subsequent
proposed modification to the project shall require review by the Director,
who shall grant approval of the modification if he or she finds the
modification to be substantially in conformance with the original approved
project.  If the Director finds that the proposed modification does not
substantially conform with the original approved project, then the applicant
shall resubmit the project for a new Certificate of Appropriateness.



 



   (1)   Modification Procedure.  To modify an approved Certificate of
Appropriateness, an applicant shall submit to the Department of City Planning
plans, elevations, or details of the proposed modification and any additional
information determined necessary for conformance review.  The Director may
forward proposed modifications to the Board and/or the Cultural Heritage
Commission’s Designee for consultation.



 



   4.   Standards for Issuance of Certificate of Appropriateness for
Construction, Addition, Alteration, or Reconstruction.  The Director shall
base a determination whether to approve, conditionally approve or disapprove
a Certificate of Appropriateness for construction, Addition, Alteration or
Reconstruction on each of the following:



 



   (a)   If no Preservation Plan exists, whether the Project complies
with Standards for Rehabilitation approved by the United States Secretary of
the Interior considering the following factors:



 



   (1)   architectural design;



 



   (2)   height, bulk, and massing of buildings and structures;



 



   (3)   lot coverage and orientation of buildings;



 



   (4)   color and texture of surface materials;



 



   (5)   grading and site development;



 



   (6)   landscaping;



 



   (7)   changes to Natural Features;



 



   (8)   antennas, satellite dishes and solar collectors;



 



   (9)   off-street parking;



 



   (10)   light fixtures and street furniture;



 



   (11)   steps, walls, fencing, doors, windows, screens and security
grills;



 



   (12)   yards and setbacks; or



 



   (13)   signs; and



 



   (b)   Whether the Project protects and preserves the Historic and
architectural qualities and the physical characteristics which make the
building, structure, landscape, or Natural Feature a Contributing Element of
the Preservation Zone; or



 



   (c)   If a Preservation Plan exists, whether the Project complies
with the Preservation Plan approved by the City Planning Commission for the
Preservation Zone.



 



   5.   Standards for Issuance of Certificate of Appropriateness for
Demolition, Removal or Relocation.  Any person proposing Demolition, removal
or relocation of any contributing building, structure, Landscaping, or
Natural Feature within a Preservation Zone not qualifying as Conforming Work
on Contributing Elements shall apply for a Certificate of Appropriateness and
the appropriate environmental review.



 



   No Certificate of Appropriateness shall be issued for Demolition,
removal or relocation of any building, structure, Landscaping, Natural
Feature or lot within a Preservation Zone that is designated as a
Contributing Element, and the application shall be denied unless the Owner
can demonstrate to the Area Planning Commission that the Owner would be
deprived of all economically viable use of the property.  In making its
determination, the Area Planning Commission shall consider any evidence
presented concerning the following:



 



   (a)   An opinion regarding the structural soundness of the structure
and its suitability for continued use, renovation, Restoration or
Rehabilitation from a licensed engineer or architect who meets the Secretary
of the Interior’s Professional Qualification Standards as established by
the Code of Federal Regulation, 36 CFR Part 61.  This opinion shall be based
on the Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for Architectural and
Engineering Documentation with Guidelines;



 



   (b)   An estimate of the cost of the proposed Alteration,
construction, Demolition, or removal and an estimate of any additional cost
that would be incurred to comply with the recommendation of the Board for
changes necessary for it to be approved;



 



   (c)   An estimate of the market value of the property in its current
condition; after completion of the proposed Alteration, construction,
Demolition, or removal; after any expenditure necessary to comply with the
recommendation of the Board for changes necessary for the Area Planning
Commission to approve a Certificate of Appropriateness; and, in the case of a
proposed Demolition, after renovation of the existing structure for continued
use;



 



   (d)   In the case of a proposed Demolition, an estimate from
architects, developers, real estate consultants, appraisers, or other real
estate professionals experienced in Rehabilitation as to the economic
feasibility of Restoration, renovation or Rehabilitation of any existing
structure or objects.  This shall include tax incentives and any special
funding sources, or government incentives which may be available.



 



   In a case where Demolition, removal, or relocation of any Contributing
Element, without a Certificate of Appropriateness for Demolition, Removal, or
Relocation has occurred, Section 12.20.3 K.5. shall not apply.  Procedures
in Sections 12.20.3 K.1. - 4. and/or Section 12.20.3 Q. shall apply.



 



   L.   Certificate of Compatibility for Non-Contributing Elements.



 



   1.   Purpose.  The intent of this section is to ensure
compatibility of Non-Contributing Elements with the character of the
Preservation Zone and to ensure that any construction or Demolition work is
undertaken in a manner that does not impair the essential form and integrity
of the Historic character of its environment.



 



   (a)   A request for a Certificate of Compatibility shall be reviewed
for conformity with the Preservation Plan for the Preservation Zone and shall
consist of at least one of the following project types:



 



   (1)   Where the Project on a Non-Contributing Element does not
qualify as Conforming Work;



 



   (2)   Where construction or Demolition of a structure is done in a
Street Visible Area on a lot designated as a Non-Contributing Element;



 



   (3)   Where structures not dating from the Preservation Zone’s
period of significance are replaced or relocated onto a lot designated as a
Non-Contributing Element.



 



   (b)   Other types of work solely involving Non-Contributing
Elements, including the relocation of buildings or structures dating from the
Preservation Zone’s period of significance onto a lot designated as a
Non-Contributing Element, are eligible for review under Conforming Work on
Non-Contributors as set forth in Subsection J.  The Director shall review a
request, pursuant to Subsection G. and find whether the application is
eligible for Conforming Work on Non-Contributors as outlined in Subsection J.
or requires a Certificate of Compatibility.  An applicant not approved under
Subsection J. may elect to file for a Certificate of Compatibility.



 



   2.   Prohibition.  No person shall construct, add to, alter, cause
the Demolition, relocation or removal of any building, structure,
Landscaping, or Natural Feature designated as a Non-Contributing Element or
not listed in the Historic Resources Survey for a Preservation Zone unless a
Certificate of Compatibility has been approved for that action pursuant to
this section. Additions and Alterations may be exempt from this section
provided they meet the criteria in Subsection J.  No Certificate of
Compatibility shall be approved unless the plans for the construction,
Demolition, Alteration, Addition, relocation, or removal conform with the
provisions of this section.  Any approval, conditional approval, or denial
shall include written justification pursuant to Section 12.20.3 L.4.



 



   3.   Procedures For Obtaining A Certificate of Compatibility.



 



   (a)   Plans shall be submitted, in conjunction with an application,
to the Department of City Planning upon a form provided for that purpose. 
Upon an application being deemed complete by the Director, one copy of the
application and relevant documents shall be mailed by the Department of City
Planning to each Boardmember of the Preservation Zone for evaluation.



 



   (b)   Application Fees.  The application fees for a Certificate of
Compatibility shall be as set forth in Section 19.01 F. of this Code.



 



   (c)   Cultural Heritage Commission and Board Recommendations.  A
notice and hearing shall be completed pursuant to Subsection M., below.  The
Cultural Heritage Commission and the Board shall submit their recommendations
to the Director as to whether the Certificate of Compatibility should be
approved, conditionally approved, or disapproved within 30 days of the
postmarked date of mailing of the application from the City Planning
Department.  In the event the Cultural Heritage Commission or the Board does
not submit its recommendation within 30 days, the Cultural Heritage
Commission or the Board shall forfeit all jurisdiction. The applicant and the
Director may mutually agree in writing to a longer period of time for the
Board to act.



 



   (d)   Director Determination.  The Director shall have the
authority to approve, conditionally approve or disapprove a Certificate of
Compatibility.



 



   (e)   Time to Act.  The Director shall render a determination on a
Certificate of Compatibility within 75 days of an application being deemed
complete, unless the applicant and the Director mutually consent in writing
to a longer period.  A copy of the determination shall be mailed to the
applicant, the Board, and any other interested parties.  No permits shall be
issued for the subject Certificate of Compatibility until the appeal period,
as set forth in Subsection N., has expired or until any appeal has been
resolved.



 



   (f)   Other City Approvals.  The requirements for a Certificate of
Compatibility are in addition to other City approvals (building permits,
variances, etc.) and other legal requirements, such as Public Resources Code
Section 5028, which may be required.  The time periods specified above may
be extended, if necessary, with the written mutual consent of the applicant
and the Director.



 



   (g)   Modification of an Approved Certificate of Compatibility. Once
a Certificate of Compatibility becomes effective, any subsequent proposed
modification to the project shall require review by the Director, who shall
grant approval of the modification if he or she finds the modification to be
substantially in conformance with the original approved project.  If the
Director finds that the proposed modification does not substantially conform
with the original approved project, then the applicant shall resubmit the
project for a new Certificate of Compatibility.



 



   (1)   Modification Procedure.  To modify an approved Certificate of
Compatibility, an applicant shall submit to the Department of City Planning
plans, elevations, or details of the proposed modification and any additional
information determined necessary for conformance review.  The Director may
forward proposed modifications to the Board and/or the Cultural Heritage
Commission’s Designee for consultation.



 



   4.   Standards for Issuance of Certificate of Compatibility for New
Building Construction or Replacement, and the Relocation of Buildings or
Structures Not Dating from the Preservation Zone’s Period of Significance
Onto a Lot Designated as a Non-Contributing Element.  The Director shall
base a determination whether to approve, conditionally approve or disapprove
a Certificate of Compatibility on each of the following:



 



   (a)   If no Preservation Plan exists, whether the following aspects
of the Project do not impair the essential form and integrity of the Historic
character of its surrounding built environment, considering the following
factors;



 



   (1)   architectural design;



 



   (2)   height, bulk, and massing of buildings and structures;



 



   (3)   lot coverage and orientation of buildings;



 



   (4)   color and texture of surface materials;



 



   (5)   grading and lot development;



 



   (6)   Landscaping;



 



   (7)   changes to Natural Features;



 



   (8)   steps, walls, fencing, doors, windows, screens, and security
grills;



 



   (9)   yards and setbacks;



 



   (10)   off street parking;



 



   (11)   light fixtures and street furniture;



 



   (12)   antennas, satellite dishes and solar collectors; or



 



   (13)   signs.



 



   New construction shall not destroy Historic features or materials that
characterize the property.  The design of new construction shall subtly
differentiate the new construction from the surrounding Historic built
fabric, and shall be contextually compatible with the massing, size, scale,
and architectural features of nearby structures in the Preservation Zone; or



 



   (b)   Whether the Project complies with the Preservation Plan
approved by the City Planning Commission for the Preservation Zone.



 



   5.   Certificates of Compatibility for the Demolition of
Non-Contributing Elements.  After notice and hearing pursuant to Subsection
M. below, the Board shall submit its comments on a request for Demolition of
a Non-Contributing Element, considering the impact(s) of the Demolition of
the Non-Contributing Element to the essential form and integrity of the
Historic character of its surrounding built environment within 30 days of the
postmarked date of mailing of the application from the City Planning
Department.  In the event the Board does not submit its comment within 30
days, the Board shall forfeit all jurisdiction.  The applicant and the
Director may mutually agree in writing to a longer period of time for the
Board to comment.



 



   (a)   In a case where Demolition of any Non-Contributing Element,
without a Certificate of Compatibility for the Demolition of Non-Contributing
Elements or permit has occurred, Section 12.20.3 L.5. shall not apply. 
Procedures in Sections 12.20.3 L.1. - 4. and/or Section 12.20.3 Q. shall
apply.



 



   M.   Notice and Public Hearing.  Before making its recommendation
to approve, conditionally approve or disapprove an application pursuant to
this section for a Certificate of Appropriateness or Certificate of
Compatibility, the Board shall hold a public hearing on the matter.  The
applicant shall notify the Owners and occupants of all properties abutting,
across the street or alley from, or having a common corner with the subject
property at least ten days prior to the date of the hearing.  Notice of the
public hearing shall be posted by the applicant in a conspicuous place on the
subject property at least ten days prior to the date of the public hearing.



 



   (1)   A copy of the Board’s recommendation pursuant to Subsection
K.3.(b) regarding a Certificate of Appropriateness or Subsection L.3.(b)
regarding a Certificate of Compatibility shall be sent to the Director.



 



   (2)   A copy of the final determination by the Director, or Area
Planning Commission shall be mailed to the Board, to the Cultural Heritage
Commission, to the applicant, and to other interested parties.



 



   N.   Appeals.  For any application for a Certificate of
Appropriateness pursuant to Subsection K. or a Certificate of Compatibility
pursuant to Subsection L., the action of the Director or the Area Planning
Commission shall be deemed to be final unless appealed.  No Certificate of
Appropriateness or Certificate of Compatibility, shall be deemed approved or
issued until the time period for appeal has expired.



 



   (1)   An initial decision of the Director is appealable to the Area
Planning Commission



 



   (2)   An initial decision by the Area Planning Commission is
appealable to the City Council.



 



   An appeal may be filed by the applicant or any aggrieved party.  An
appeal may also be filed by the Mayor or a member of the City Council. 
Unless a Board member is an applicant, he or she may not appeal any initial
decision of the Director or Area Planning Commission as it pertains to this
section.  An appeal shall be filed at the public counter of the Planning
Department within 15 days of the date of the decision to approve,
conditionally approve, or disapprove the application for Certificate of
Appropriateness or Certificate of Compatibility.  The appeal shall set forth
specifically how the petitioner believes the findings and decision are in
error.  An appeal shall be filed in triplicate, and the Planning Department
shall forward a copy to the Board and the Cultural Heritage Commission.  The
appellate body may grant, conditionally grant or deny the appeal.  Before
acting on any appeal, the appellate body shall set the matter for hearing,
giving a minimum of 15 days’ notice to the applicant, the appellant, the
Cultural Heritage Commission, the relevant Board and any other interested
parties of record.  The failure of the appellate body to act upon an appeal
within 75 days after the expiration of the appeal period or within an
additional period as may be agreed upon by the applicant and the appellate
body shall be deemed a denial of the appeal and the original action on the
matter shall become final.



 



   O.   Authority of Cultural Heritage Commission not Affected. 
Notwithstanding any provisions of this section, nothing here shall be
construed as superseding or overriding the Cultural Heritage Commission’s
authority as provided in Los Angeles Administrative Code Section 22.171, et
seq.



 



   P.   Publicly Owned Property.  The provisions of this section shall
apply to any building, structure, Landscaping, Natural Feature or lot within
a Preservation Zone which is owned or leased by a public entity to the extent
permitted by law.



 



   Q.   Enforcement.  The Department of Building and Safety, the
Housing and Community Investment Department, or any successor agencies,
whichever has jurisdiction, shall make all inspections of properties which
are in violation of this section when apprised that work has been done or is
required to be done pursuant to a building permit.  Violations, the
correction of which do not require a building permit, shall be investigated
and resolved jointly by the Planning Department, the Department of Building
and Safety, the Housing and Community Investment Department, or any successor
agencies, whichever has jurisdiction, and if a violation is found, the
Planning Department may then request the Department of Building and Safety,
the Housing and Community Investment Department or any successor agencies to
issue appropriate orders for compliance.  Any person who has failed to
comply with the provisions of this section shall be subject to the provisions
of Section 11.00 (m) of this Code.  The Owner of the property in violation
shall be assessed a minimum inspection fee, as specified in Section 98.0412
of this Code for each site inspection.  No building permit shall be cleared
by the Planning Department while an outstanding violation exists, regardless
of whether a building permit is required or not for the violation.



 



   R.   Demolition of Buildings without a Permit.  Any Demolition or
relocation of a Contributing or Non-Contributing Element, or a portion
thereof, done without a building permit and Certificate of Appropriateness or
Certificate of Compatibility approvals pursuant to Sections 12.20.3 K.5. and
12.20.3 L.5., shall be reviewed by the Director of Planning in accordance
with the provisions of Section 12.20.3 S.



 



   S.   Preliminary Evaluation of Demolition or Relocation without
Permit.



 



   1.   Purpose.  The purpose of this subsection is to require the
documentation of the loss of historic features as a result of unpermitted
construction or Demolition activities, relocation, neglectful ownership, or
man-made disaster.



 



   2.   Prohibition.  Where Demolition or relocation to all or
portions of a Contributing or Non-Contributing Element has occurred without
the necessary approvals, the provisions of Section 12.20.3 K.5. (COA-DEM) or
12.20.3 L.5. (CCMP) shall not apply.  Upon completion of a Preliminary
Evaluation of Demolition or Relocation without Permit, and Section
91.106.4.1(10) proceedings by the Department of Building and Safety, an
application for Certificate of Appropriateness or Certificate of
Compatibility shall be reviewed in accordance with the provisions of Sections
12.20.3 K. and 12.20.3 L., whichever is applicable.



 



   3.   Procedures.



 



   (a)   Evaluation.  The Director of Planning or his or her designee
can initiate review on the Demolition or relocation of a structure, in whole
or in part, commenced prior to the issuance of a building permit. During the
investigation, all work on the site shall cease and an order to comply shall
be issued per Section 12.20.3 Q.  Review by the Director shall include, but
is not limited to, documentation of the structure(s) as it (they) existed at
the time of the Historic Resources Survey, permit history research, site
visits, documentation of the loss of building features, identification of
salvageable features, and evaluation of the demolition’s impact on the
historic resource.



 



   (b)   Evaluation Fees.  Fees for the preliminary evaluation will be
assessed pursuant to Section 19.01 F. of this Code.



 



   4.   Notice.  A copy of the evaluation shall be mailed to the
Department of Building and Safety, the applicant, the Board, Council Office,
and any other interested parties.



 



   5.   Proceedings Pursuant to Los Angeles Municipal Code Section
91.106.4.1(10).  Upon completion of the evaluation, the matter shall be
referred to the Department of Building and Safety for investigation and
enforcement pursuant to Section 91.106.4.1(10).  The Department of Building
and Safety shall be authorized to withhold development permits on said
property for five years if it determines that demolition occurred in
violation of Section 91.106.4.1(10).  Any person who has failed to comply
with the provisions of Section 12.20.3 K.5. or 12.20.3 L.5. shall be subject
to the provisions of Section 11.00 (l) of this Code.



 



   6.   During the Section 91.106.4.1(10) proceedings and the five-year
penalty period, the property owner shall be responsible for protecting any
features of the original structure which remain intact, securing the property
from vandalism and theft, and keeping the property free of other nuisances.



 



   T.   Injunctive Relief.  Where it appears that the Owner, occupant
or person in charge of a building, structure, Landscaping, Natural Feature,
lot or area within a Preservation Zone threatens, permits, is about to do or
is doing any work or activity in violation of this section, the City Attorney
may forthwith apply to an appropriate court for a temporary restraining
order, preliminary or permanent injunction, or other or further relief as
appears appropriate.



 



 



   SEC. 12.21.  GENERAL PROVISIONS.



 



   A.   Use.



 



   1.   Conformance and Permits Required.



 



   (a)   Permits and Licenses. No building or structure shall be
erected, reconstructed, structurally altered, enlarged, moved, or maintained,
nor shall any building, structure, or land be used or designed to be used for
any use other than is permitted in the zone in which such building,
structure, or land is located and then only after applying for and securing
all permits and licenses required by all laws and ordinances. (Amended by
Ord. No. 131,319, Eff. 1/16/66.)



 



   (b)   Flexible Units. Whenever a layout within any dwelling unit or
guest room is designed with multiple hallway entrances, multiple toilet and
bath facilities or bar sink installations, so that it can be easily divided
into or used for separate apartments or guest rooms, the lot area
requirements and the automobile parking requirements shall be based upon the
highest possible number of dwelling units or guest rooms obtainable from any
such arrangement. (Amended by Ord. No. 149,118, Eff. 2/5/77.)



 



   2.   Other Use and Yard Determinations by the Zoning
Administrator.  (Amended by Ord. No. 177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.)  The  Zoning
Administrator shall have authority to determine other uses, in addition to
those specifically listed in this article, which may be permitted in each of
the various zones, when in his or her judgment, the other uses are similar to
and no more objectionable to the public welfare than those listed.



 



   The Zoning Administrator shall also have authority to interpret zoning
regulations when the meaning of the regulation is not clear, either in
general or as it apples to a specific property or situation.



 



   Anyone aggrieved by the Zoning Administrator's determination may file
an appeal within 15 days from the issuance of the written decision.



 



   The City Planning Commission shall hear appeals on Zoning Administrator
Interpretations where there is no site specific issue.  The Area Planning
Commission shall hear appeals on site specific Zoning Administrator
Interpretations.  In no instance, however, shall the Zoning Administrator
determine, nor shall these regulations be so interpreted, that a use may be
permitted in a zone when that use is specifically listed as first permissible
in a less restrictive zone; e.g., a use listed in the C2 Zone shall not be
permitted in the C1 Zone, or in a more restricted designation associated with
a Pedestrian Oriented District or Specific Plan.



 



   The Zoning Administrator shall also have authority to adopt general
interpretations determining the proper application of the yard regulations to
groups of lots located in hillside districts or affected by common problems.



 



   3.   Zone Group Classification.  Whenever the terms A Zone, R Zone,
C Zone, or M Zone are used in this article, they shall be deemed to refer to
all zones containing the same letters in their title; provided, however, the
term A zone shall include the RA Zone, the term R Zone shall include the RD,
RE, RS, RW, RU, RZ, and RMP Zones, the term C Zone shall include the CR, CM
and the CM(GM) Zones, and the term M Zone shall include the MR Zones. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 169,103, Eff. 11/21/93.)



 



   4.   Off-Street Automobile Parking Requirements.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 185,480, Eff. 5/9/18.)  A garage or an off-street automobile parking
area shall be provided in connection with and at the time of the erection of
each of the buildings or structures hereinafter specified, or at the time
such buildings or structures are altered, enlarged, converted or increased in
capacity by the addition of dwelling units, guest rooms, beds for
institutions, floor area or seating capacity.  The parking space capacity
required in said garage or parking area shall be determined by the amount of
dwelling units, guest rooms, beds for institutions, floor area or seats so
provided, and said garage or parking area shall be maintained thereafter in
connection with such buildings or structures.



 



   New or existing automobile parking spaces required by the Code for all
uses may be replaced by bicycle parking at a ratio of one standard or compact
automobile parking space for every four required or non-required bicycle
parking spaces provided, so long as the number of compact stalls complies
with Section 12.21 A.5.(c) of this Code.  In cases where additional bicycle
parking spaces are required as a result of an addition to an existing
building, the maximum number of bicycle parking spaces eligible to be applied
toward the required number of automobile parking spaces shall be calculated
based on the total number of bicycle parking spaces provided for the existing
building plus the number of bicycle parking spaces provided for the
addition.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, no more than 20 percent of the
required automobile parking spaces for nonresidential uses shall be replaced
at a site.  Automobile parking spaces for nonresidential projects or
buildings located within 1,500 feet of a major transit stop, as defined in
Subdivision (b) of Section 21155 of the California Public Resources Code as
that section may be amended from time to time, may replace up to 30 percent
of the required automobile parking spaces with bicycle parking.  For
buildings with less than 20 required automobile parking spaces, those spaces
may be replaced subject to the limits described in this Subdivision, not
exceeding a total of four parking spaces replaced.



 



   Residential buildings, including hotels, motels and apartment hotels,
may replace 10 percent of the required automobile parking with bicycle
parking.  Automobile parking spaces for residential projects or buildings
located within 1,500 feet of a major transit stop, as defined in Subdivision
(b) of Section 21155 of the California Public Resources Code, may replace up
to 15 percent of the required automobile parking spaces with bicycle
parking.  If a residential building includes at least the minimum number of
restricted affordable units to receive a density bonus under Section 12.22
A.25., then 30 percent of the required automobile parking may be replaced. 
In such cases, the replacement of automobile parking with bicycle parking
shall be implemented in lieu of the parking options in Section 12.22 A.25.(d).



 



   For the purposes of this subdivision, the 1,500-foot distance shall be
measured horizontally based on the shortest distance between any point on the
lot and a qualified major transit stop.



 



   In cases where additional automobile parking spaces are required as a
result of an addition to an existing building, the maximum number of required
automobile parking spaces eligible to be satisfied using bicycle parking
spaces shall be calculated based on the total number of automobile parking
spaces provided for the existing building plus the number of automobile
parking spaces required for the addition.



 



   Bicycle parking installed pursuant to this section may be installed in
existing automobile parking spaces and shall not be considered to violate the
maintenance of existing parking as defined by section 12.21 A.4.(m).  The
ratio of short- to long-term bicycle parking provided for pursuant to this
section shall be provided in accordance with the requirements set forth for
each use as defined by Section 12.21 A.16.(a).  If additional bicycle
parking is provided beyond the requirements of Section 12.21 A.16., or
provided when not required by Code, the ratio of short- to long-term bicycle
parking provided may be determined by the business or property owner.



 



   (a)   For Dwelling Units.  (Amended by Ord. No. 176,354, Eff.
1/31/05.)  In all zones, there shall be at least two automobile parking
spaces on the same lot with each one-family dwelling thereon, and in any RW
Zone there shall be at least two automobile parking spaces per dwelling unit
which shall be upon the same lot with the dwelling unit.  However, for small
lot subdivisions approved pursuant to Article 7 of this Chapter in conformity
with the provisions of Section 12.22 C.27. of this Code, the required parking
spaces shall not be required to be located on the same lot with each dwelling
unit, but shall be provided within the boundaries of the parcel or tract
map.  The ratio of parking spaces required for all other dwelling units
shall be at least one parking space for each dwelling unit of less than three
habitable rooms, one and one-half parking spaces for each dwelling unit of
three habitable rooms, and two parking spaces for each dwelling unit of more
than three habitable rooms.  Where the lot is located in an RA, RE, RS, R1,
RU, RZ, RMP, or RW Zone, the required parking spaces shall be provided within
a private garage.  Where the lot is located in an R2 Zone, at least one of
the required parking spaces per dwelling unit shall be provided within a
private garage.  Any door or doors installed at the automobile entry to a
garage serving a one or two-family dwelling where one or more required
parking spaces is located shall be of conventional design constructed so as
to permit the simultaneous entry of automobiles into each required parking
space without damaging the door or door frame and constructed so as to permit
the flow of air through the automobile entry when the door is in the fully
closed position.



 



   The above area requirements shall not apply to mobilehomes parks or
mobilehomes located with in mobilehome parks. Mobilehome parks are subject to
the requirements of Title 25 of the California Administrative Code.



 



   (b)   For Guest Rooms.  Automobile parking spaces shall be provided
in the following ratio for the guest rooms included within any building:
(Amended by Ord. No. 129,334, Eff. 2/28/65.)



 



   (1)   One parking space for each individual guest room or suite of
rooms for the first 30;



 



   (2)   One additional parking space for each two guest rooms or
suites of rooms in excess of 30 but not exceeding 60; and



 



   (3)   One additional parking space for each three guest rooms or
suites of rooms in excess of 60.



 



   (c)   For Commercial and Industrial Buildings.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 182,386, Eff. 3/13/13.)  Except as otherwise provided in subparagraphs
(1) through (7) below, there shall be at least one automobile parking space
for each 500 square feet of combined floor area contained within all the
office, business, commercial, research and development buildings, and
manufacturing or industrial buildings on any lot.



 



   A specific plan may impose less restrictive parking requirements, if it
expressly states that the specific plan's parking provisions are intended to
supersede the standards set forth in this paragraph.



 



   (1)   Warehouse: Where a building or portion thereof is designed,
arranged or used as a warehouse including storage buildings for household
goods and has a gross floor area in excess of 10,000 square feet, in addition
to the one automobile parking space for each 500 square feet of floor area
for the first 10,000 square feet, only one parking space need be provided for
each 5,000 square feet of floor area in excess of the first 10,000 square
feet contained in such warehouse. Such warehouse may not be changed to
another use unless additional parking space is provided to meet the
requirements contained herein for such other uses.



 



   (2)   Health Clubs: There shall be at least one automobile parking
space for each 100 square feet of floor area in the building being utilized
for a health club, athletic club, bath house, gymnasium, dance studio, dance
hall, or any similar establishment, which operates as a private facility or
offers the use of the premises and equipment to the general public for
physical exercise, dance or sports activities. This provision does not
include such a facility located in a building which is accessory to an
elementary school, junior high school or senior high school as defined in
Section 12.03 of this article or any other institution of learning under the
jurisdiction of the State Department of Education. This provision does not
include such a facility located within an office building of at least 50,000
square feet or more of gross floor area, or located within the Downtown
Business District parking exception area described in Paragraph (i) of this
subdivision.



 



   (3)   Restaurants and Bars, General: There shall be at least one
automobile parking space for each 100 square feet of gross floor area
included within the total square footage of any restaurant, cafe, coffee
shop, tea room, fast food establishment, bar, night club, or any similar
establishment, which dispenses food or refreshments or provides dancing or
live entertainment. This requirement shall only apply to an establishment
which has a gross floor area greater than 1,000 square feet. An establishment
which provides no seating and exclusively dispenses food or refreshments to
be eaten off the premises is not included in this definition and shall
instead meet the requirement for general retail uses.



 



   (4)   Restaurant, Small: If a restaurant, cafe, coffee shop, or
other dining establishment has a gross floor area of 1,000 square feet or
less, then it need provide only one automobile parking space for each 200
square feet of gross floor area. However, if such an establishment has a
separate bar, or provides dancing or live entertainment, then additional
parking shall be provided to meet the requirements for general restaurants
set forth in Subparagraph (3) of this paragraph.



 



   (5)   Retail Stores, General:  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,992, Eff.
7/6/01.)  Retail establishments and discount wholesalers selling to the
general public, shall provide at least four automobile parking spaces for
each 1,000 square feet of gross floor area.



 



   (6)   Retail, Furniture Stores: Furniture stores, major appliance
stores, or similar establishments shall provide at least one automobile
parking space for each 500 square feet of gross floor area.



 



   (7)   Trade Schools: Trade schools, business colleges, professional
or scientific schools, music schools, chiropractic schools, or any similar
commercial school shall provide at least one automobile parking space for
each 50 square feet of floor area contained within classrooms and assembly
areas, or one parking space for each five fixed seats contained within
classrooms and assembly areas, whichever provides the greater number of
parking spaces. This does not include classroom area where heavy equipment is
used in conjunction with training, which shall instead provide at least one
parking space for each 500 square feet of floor area.



 



   (d)   For Institutions.  (Amended by Ord. No. 145,088, Eff.
10/18/73.) There shall be at least one automobile parking space for each 500
square feet of floor area contained within any philanthropic institution,
governmental office building, or similar use. Institutions which provide
medical services, such as hospitals, sanitariums, convalescent homes,
clinics, medical office buildings and other medical service facilities shall
make the following provisions for off-street automobile parking.



 



   (1)   Hospitals shall provide 2.0 automobile parking spaces for each
patient bed for which the hospital is licensed.



 



   (2)   Sanitariums and convalescent homes shall provide one
automobile parking space for each 500 square feet of floor area, or 0.2
automobile parking spaces per patient bed, for which the facility is
licensed, whichever provides the greater number of automobile parking spaces.



 



   (3)   Clinics, as defined in Health and Safety Code Section 1202,
medical office buildings and other medical service facilities shall provide
one automobile parking space per 200 square feet of total floor area.



 



   (4)   Any institution providing a mixture of medical services, such
as a combined hospital/clinic facility, shall meet the requirements for
automobile parking spaces as if each portion of the facility were an
independent entity.



 



   (5)   (Added by Ord. No. 178,063, Eff. 12/30/06.)  Any Eldercare
Facility shall meet the following requirements for automobile parking spaces
for each housing type within the facility.



 



 


Housing Type

 

Required Parking For Each Housing Type (whether or not included within an
Eldercare Facility)




Senior Independent Housing

 

1 automobile parking space for each dwelling unit




Assisted Living Care Housing

 

1 automobile parking space for each dwelling unit or 1 automobile parking
space for each guest room




Skilled Nursing Care Housing

 

0.2 automobile parking space for each guest bed




Alzheimer's/Dementia Care Housing

 

0.2 automobile parking space for each guest bed




 



 



   (e)   For Auditoriums. There shall be at least one automobile
parking space for each five seats contained within any theatre, church, high
school, college or university auditorium, or general auditorium, stadium or
other similar place of assembly. Where there are no fixed seats in the
auditorium or place of assembly, there shall be one parking space for each 35
square feet of floor area (exclusive of stage) contained therein.



 



   (f)   For Elementary Schools. There shall be one automobile parking
space on the same lot with each classroom contained in any elementary school.



 



   (g)   Location of Parking Area. The automobile parking spaces
required by Paragraphs (b), (c), (d) and (e) hereof, shall be provided either
on the same lot as the use for which they are intended to serve or on another
lot not more than 750 feet distant therefrom; said distance to be measured
horizontally along the streets between the two lots, except that where the
parking area is located adjacent to an alley, public walk or private easement
which is easily usable for pedestrian travel between the parking area and the
use it is to serve, the 750-foot distance may be measured along said alley,
walk or easement. (Amended by Ord. No. 145,088, Eff. 10/18/73.)



 



   (h)   Access Driveways. An access driveway shall be provided and
maintained between each automobile parking space or area and a street, or
alley, or a private street or easement approved in accordance with the
provisions of Article 8 of this chapter. Such access driveway shall be
located entirely on the lot which it serves. However, an access driveway need
not be located entirely on the same lot as the dwelling and parking space it
serves if the driveway lot and dwelling existed on September 6, 1961, and
additions and alterations may be made to such dwelling, and accessory
buildings may be added on such lot, if no additional dwelling units or guest
rooms are created. (Amended by Ord. No. 142,306, Eff. 9/13/71, Operative
2/9/72.)



 



   (i)   Exception Downtown Business District. (Amended by Ord. No.
137,036, Eff. 9/22/68.) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this section
to the contrary, within that area hereinafter described, the off-street
automobile parking spaces required in connection with the following
buildings, structures or uses shall be located on the same lot or not more
than 1,500 feet therefrom and said spaces shall be provided in the following
ratio:



 



   (1)   For auditoriums and other similar places of assembly, one
space for each 10 fixed seats or one space for each 100 square feet of floor
area (exclusive of stage) where there are no fixed seats;



 



   (2)   For hospitals, philanthropic institutions, governmental office
buildings, and similar uses, at least one parking space for each 1,000 square
feet of floor area.



 



   (3)   For business, commercial or industrial buildings, having a
gross floor area of 7,500 square feet or more, at least one parking space for
each 1,000 square feet of floor area in said building, exclusive of floor
areas used for automobile parking space, for basement storage, or for rooms
housing mechanical equipment incidental to the operation of buildings;
provided that, for a warehouse having a gross floor area of 10,000 square
feet or more, in addition to one automobile parking space for each 1,000
square feet of floor area for the first 10,000 square feet, the automobile
parking required for that portion of the warehouse in excess of the first
10,000 square feet of floor area shall be one space for each 5,000 square
feet. (Amended by Ord. No. 137,557, Eff. 12/26/68.)



 



   This exception shall apply only to property located within the area
bounded by Pico Boulevard from the Harbor Freeway to Figueroa Street;
Figueroa Street from Pico Boulevard to Venice Boulevard; Venice Boulevard
from Figueroa Street to Main Street; Sixteenth Street from Main Street to
Maple Avenue; Maple Avenue from Sixteenth Street to Olympic Boulevard;
Olympic Boulevard from Maple Avenue to San Julian Street; San Julian Street
from Olympic Boulevard to Ninth Street; Ninth Street from San Julian Street
to Gladys Avenue; Olympic Boulevard from Gladys Avenue to Central Avenue;
Central Avenue from Olympic Boulevard to Third Street; Third Street from
Central Avenue to Alameda Street; Alameda Street from Third Street to Sunset
Boulevard; Sunset Boulevard from Alameda Street to North Broadway; North
Broadway from Sunset Boulevard to Temple Street; Temple Street from North
Broadway to Hill Street; Hill Street from Temple Street to First Street;
First Street from Hill Street to the Harbor Freeway; the Harbor Freeway from
First Street to Pico Boulevard. (Amended by Ord. No. 147,460, Eff. 8/31/75.)



 



   (j)   Combination of Uses.  (Amended by Ord. No. 165,773, Eff.
5/21/90.)



 



   (1)   Where there is a combination of uses on a lot, the number of
automobile parking spaces required shall be the sum of the requirements of
the various uses, except as provided below.



 



   (2)   If there is office space auxiliary to a manufacturing,
warehouse, or other industrial use on the same lot, the office use shall have
its required parking spaces computed at the same ratio as the industrial use.
However, if the office space exceeds 10 percent of the total gross floor area
of a building, then the balance of the office space in excess of 10 percent
shall have its required spaces computed at the ratio specified for office use.



 



   (3)   For an office building with a total gross floor area of at
least 50,000 square feet, and if the retail space in the building does not
exceed five percent of the total gross floor area, or 15,000 square feet,
whichever is the smaller amount, then any retail space in the building shall
have its required parking spaces computed at the same ratio as the office use.



 



   (k)   Fractional Space. When the application of these regulations
results in the requirement of a fractional automobile space, any fraction up
to and including one-half may be disregarded and any fraction over one-half
shall be construed as requiring one automobile parking space.



 



   (l)   Use of Passageways. In no event shall the passageways provided
in compliance with the requirements of Subdivision 2. of Subsection C. of
this section be considered as also providing the automobile parking space or
any portion of the parking space required hereby.



 



   (m)   For Existing Buildings.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,110, Eff.
5/29/12.)  Off-street automobile parking space being maintained in
connection with any existing main building or structure shall be maintained
so long as said main building or structure remains, unless an equivalent
substitute number of such spaces are provided and thereafter maintained
conforming to the requirements of this paragraph; provided, however, that
this regulation shall not require the maintenance of more automobile parking
space than is required herein for a new building or structure identical to
said existing building or structure, nor the maintenance of such space for
any type of main building or structure other than those specified herein. 
Further, provided, however, that if a building or structure constructed after
the effective date of this ordinance is of insufficient floor area at the
time of its construction to be required to provide parking spaces by the
requirements of this section, but is subsequently increased in floor area in
such a manner that it would be subject to said requirements, parking spaces
shall then be provided on the basis of the total resulting floor area.



 



   Exceptions:



 



   (1)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this section to the
contrary and for any existing high rise building cited under Los Angeles
Municipal Code Section 91.8604.6.3, the Department of Building and Safety may
reduce the number of required parking spaces by the number of spaces which
the Department of Building and Safety determines are needed to install a
water storage tank to enlarge an existing fire pump room, or to install a new
fire pump room.



 



   (2)   The Department of Building and Safety may reduce the number of
required parking spaces by the number of spaces which the Department of
Building and Safety determines are needed to provide disabled parking spaces
as required by State access laws.



 



   (3)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this section to the
contrary, the Department of Building and Safety may reduce the number of
required parking spaces by the number of spaces that are necessarily
displaced as a result of compliance with Divisions 93 and 95 of Article 1 of
Chapter IX of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.  The reduction shall not
exceed 20 percent of required parking spaces or one (1) space, whichever is
greater.  This exception does not nullify any existing obligations under the
Rent Stabilization Ordinance in Chapter XV, Article 1, of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code.  (Added by Ord. No. 185,633, Eff. 7/9/18.)



 



   (n)   In no event shall automobile parking space which is provided
for a building or use, as required by this section, be considered as
providing any of the required space for another building or use.



 



   (o)   Waiver.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)  All or a portion of the off-street automobile parking spaces
required by this section may be waived when the lot involved is located
within the boundaries of an assessment district for the acquisition of
publicly owned automobile parking lots, or is located adjacent to land used
or being acquired for publicly owned parking lots.  The City Planning
Commission, with the assistance of the Off-Street Parking Bureau, shall
determine to what extent and on which lots the required parking may be
waived, but in no event shall the total number of the waived parking spaces
exceed the total number provided on the publicly owned parking lots.



 



   (p)   Exception for Central City Area.  (Added by Ord. No. 129,334,
Eff. 2/28/65.) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this section to the
contrary, within that area hereinafter described, the off-street automobile
parking spaces required in connection with the following residential uses
shall be located on the same lot and said spaces shall be provided in the
following ratio:



 



   (1)   One space for each dwelling unit, except where there are more
than six dwelling units of more than three habitable rooms per unit on any
lot, the ratio of parking spaces required for all of such units shall be at
least one and one-quarter parking spaces for each dwelling unit of more than
three habitable rooms.



 



   (2)   One space for each two individual guest rooms or suites of
rooms for the first 20, one additional parking space for each four guest
rooms or suites of rooms in excess of 20 but not exceeding 40, and one
additional parking space for each six guest rooms or suites of rooms in
excess of 40.



 



   With regard to any development for which architectural and structural
plans sufficient for a complete plan check were accepted by the Department of
Building and Safety and for which a complete and full plan check fee was paid
on or before May 11, 1988, and for which no subsequent changes are made to
those plans which increase the number of dwelling units or guest rooms:



 



   This exception shall apply to property located within the area bounded
by Western Avenue from Melrose Avenue to Washington Boulevard, Washington
Boulevard to Vermont Avenue, Vermont Avenue from Washington Boulevard to the
Santa Monica Freeway, the Santa Monica Freeway from Vermont Avenue to Hoover
Street, Hoover Street from the Santa Monica Freeway to Union Avenue, Union
Avenue from Hoover Street to Washington Boulevard, Washington Boulevard from
Union Avenue to the Harbor Freeway, the Harbor Freeway from Washington
Boulevard to Figueroa Street, Figueroa Street from Harbor Freeway to
Jefferson Boulevard, Jefferson Boulevard from Figueroa Street to Broadway,
Broadway from Jefferson Boulevard to Martin Luther King, Jr. Boulevard,
Martin Luther King, Jr. Boulevard from Broadway to Central Avenue, Central
Avenue from Martin Luther King, Jr. Boulevard to 41st Street, 41st Street
from Central Avenue to the City Boundary at Alameda Street, City Boundary
north and east to Soto Street, Soto Street from the City Boundary to Valley
Boulevard, Valley Boulevard from Soto Street to North Main Street, North Main
Street from Valley Boulevard to the Golden State Freeway, the Golden State
Freeway from North Main Street to the Pasadena Freeway, the Pasadena Freeway
from the Golden State Freeway to Stadium Way, Stadium Way from the Pasadena
Freeway to Elysian Park Avenue, Elysian Park Avenue from Stadium Way to Lilac
Terrace, Lilac Terrace from Stadium Way to Sunset Boulevard, Sunset Boulevard
from Lilac Terrace to Silver Lake Boulevard, Silver Lake Boulevard from
Sunset Boulevard to the Hollywood Freeway, the Hollywood Freeway from Silver
Lake Boulevard to Melrose Avenue, Melrose Avenue from the Hollywood Freeway
to Western Avenue. (Second Unnumbered Para. Amended by Ord. No. 163,666, Eff.
7/2/88.)



 



   With regard to any development for which architectural and structural
plans sufficient for a complete plan check were not accepted by the
Department of Building and Safety and for which a complete and full plan
check fee was paid after May 11, 1988 and before November 22, 1988:



 



   This exception shall apply to property located within the area bounded
by Western Avenue from Wilshire Boulevard to Washington Boulevard, Washington
Boulevard to Vermont Avenue, Vermont Avenue from Washington Boulevard to the
Santa Monica Freeway, the Santa Monica Freeway from Vermont Avenue to Hoover
Street, Hoover Street from Santa Monica Freeway to Union Avenue, Union Avenue
from Hoover Street to Washington Boulevard, Washington Boulevard from Union
Avenue to the Harbor Freeway, the Harbor Freeway from Washington Boulevard to
Figueroa Street, Figueroa Street from the Harbor Freeway to Jefferson
Boulevard, Jefferson Boulevard from Figueroa Street to Broadway, Broadway
from Jefferson Boulevard to Martin Luther King, Jr. Boulevard, Martin Luther
King, Jr. Boulevard from Broadway to Central Avenue, Central Avenue from
Martin Luther King, Jr. Boulevard to 41st Street, 41st Street from Central
Avenue to the City Boundary at Alameda street, City Boundary north and east
to Soto Street, Soto Street from the City Boundary to Valley Boulevard,
Valley Boulevard from Soto Street to North Main street, North Main Street
from Valley Boulevard to the Golden State Freeway, the Golden State Freeway
from North Main Street to the Pasadena Freeway, the Pasadena Freeway from the
Golden State Freeway to Stadium Way, Stadium Way from the Pasadena Freeway to
Elysian Park Avenue, Elysian Park Avenue from Stadium Way to Lilac Terrace,
Lilac Terrace from Stadium Way to Sunset Boulevard, Sunset Boulevard from
Lilac Terrace to Alvarado Street, Alvarado Street from Sunset Boulevard to
Kent street, Kent Street from Alvarado Street to Coronado Street, Coronado
Street from Kent Street to Temple Street, Temple Street from Coronado Street
to Coronado Street, Coronado Street from Temple Street to Third Street, Third
Street from Coronado Street to Hoover Street, Hoover Street from Third Street
to Beverly Boulevard, Beverly Boulevard from Hoover Street to First Street,
First Street from Beverly Boulevard to Vermont Avenue, Vermont Avenue from
First Street to Wilshire Boulevard, Wilshire Boulevard from Vermont Avenue to
Western Avenue. (Third Unnumbered Para. Amended by Ord. No. 164,394, Eff.
3/13/89.)



 



   With regard to any development for which architectural and structural
plans sufficient for complete plan check were not accepted by the Department
of Building and Safety and for which a complete and full plan check fee was
paid on or after November 22, 1988:



 



   This exception shall apply to property located within the area bounded
by beginning at the Los Angeles River and Alhambra Avenue; thence
southwesterly along Alhambra Avenue to Main Street; thence southwesterly
along Main Street to Ord Street; thence westerly along Ord Street to North
Broadway; thence southerly along North Broadway to Sunset Boulevard; thence
northwesterly along Sunset Boulevard to Pasadena Freeway; thence
southwesterly along the Pasadena Freeway and the Harbor Freeway to Fourth
Street; thence northwesterly along Fourth Street to Third Street; thence
northwesterly along Third street to Bixel Street; thence southwesterly along
Bixel Street to Fifth Street; thence northwesterly along Fifth Street to
Lucas Avenue; thence southwesterly along Lucas Avenue to Sixth Street; thence
northwesterly along Sixth Street to Valencia Street; thence southwesterly
along Valencia Street to Seventh Street; thence southeasterly along Seventh
Street to Garland Avenue; thence southwesterly along Garland Avenue to Ninth
Street; thence southeasterly along Ninth Street to the Harbor Freeway; thence
southwesterly and southerly along the Harbor Freeway to Figueroa Street;
thence southerly along Figueroa Street from the Harbor Freeway to Jefferson
Boulevard; thence easterly along Jefferson Boulevard from Figueroa street to
Broadway; thence southerly along Broadway from Jefferson Boulevard to Martin
Luther King, Jr. Boulevard; thence easterly along Martin Luther King, Jr.
Boulevard from Broadway to Central Avenue; thence southerly along Central
Avenue from Martin Luther King, Jr. Boulevard to 41st Street; thence easterly
along 41st Street from Central Avenue to the City Boundary at Alameda Street;
thence northerly along City boundary to 24th Street; thence easterly along
City boundary to the Los Angeles River; thence northerly to the westbound
transition connecting the Golden State and the Santa Monica Freeways; thence
northeasterly along said transition to 7th Street; thence westerly along 7th
Street to Anderson Street; thence northerly along Anderson Street to Sunrise
Street; thence easterly along Sunrise Street to Clarence Street; thence
northerly along Clarence street to Jesse Street; thence westerly along Jesse
Street to Anderson Street: thence northerly along Anderson Street to Whittier
Boulevard; thence easterly along Whittier Boulevard to Clarence Street;
thence northerly along Clarence Street to 6th Street; thence easterly along
6th Street and its easterly prolongation to the southerly prolongation of
Gless Street; thence northerly along said southerly prolongation of Gless
Street to the alley southerly of 4th Street; thence westerly along the alley
southerly of 4th Street to Clarence Street; thence northerly along Clarence
Street to 1st Street; thence westerly along First Street to the Los Angeles
River; thence northeasterly along the Los Angeles River to the Santa Ana
Freeway; thence westerly and northwesterly along the Santa Ana Freeway to
Spring Street; thence northeasterly along Spring Street to Macy Street;
thence easterly along Macy Street to Alameda Street; thence northeasterly
along Alameda Street to the westerly prolongation of the southerly line of
former Bauchet Street as described in deed recorded Book 37112, page 408, of
Official Records, in the office of said County Recorder; thence easterly
along said southerly line of said former Bauchet Street and continuing along
said southerly line in its various courses intersection with in the
southeasterly line of former Date Street, as described in said deed recorded
in Book 37112, page 408 of Official Records; thence northeasterly along said
southeasterly line of former Date Street and continuing along its
northeasterly prolongation to Vignes Street; thence southeasterly along
Vignes Street to Bauchet Street; thence westerly along Bauchet Street to
Avila Street; thence southerly along Avila Street to Macy Street; thence
easterly along Macy Street to Los Angeles River; thence northerly and
northeasterly along the Los Angeles River to Alhambra Avenue. (Fourth
Unnumbered Para. Added by Ord. No. 164,394, Eff. 3/13/89.)



 



   (q)   Exception.  Dwelling on Narrow Lot.  Where only one
single-family dwelling is located on a nonconforming lot 40 feet or less in
width and not abutting an alley, only one automobile parking space need be
provided.  This exception shall not apply to any lot in the A1, A2, RA, RE,
RS, R1 or RD Zones which fronts on a Substandard Hillside Limited Street.
(Amended by Ord. No. 168,159, Eff. 9/14/92.)



 



   (r)   Exception for Teen Posts. Notwithstanding any other provisions
on this section to the contrary, no off-street automobile parking spaces
shall be required in connection with a building or structure, or portion
thereof, used primarily for the operation of a “Teen Post” administered
by Teen Post, Incorporated, a delegate agency of the Greater Los Angeles
Community Action Agency, or its successors. This exception shall be effective
to and including December 31, 1974, only. Thereafter, the off-street
automobile parking requirements of the Comprehensive Zoning Plan of the City
of Los Angeles shall apply fully to such a use, and any certificate of
occupancy issued for such a use during the time this paragraph is in effect
not having the required number of off-street automobile parking spaces shall
automatically be cancelled and the building shall no longer be so occupied or
used unless and until the required automobile parking spaces are provided and
a new certificate is issued. (Amended by Ord. No. 145,487, Eff. 2/24/74.)



 



   (s)   Parking Requirements for Air Space Lots. Notwithstanding any
provision of this section to the contrary, in the case of developments
containing one or more air space lots, required automobile parking spaces may
be located anywhere on the lot which has had the spaces above or below it
divided by such air space lot or lots. All other parking requirements of this
section shall apply to developments containing one or more air space lots.
(Added by Ord. No. 156,681, Eff. 6/21/82.)



 



   (t)   Exception for Rental Units Resulting from Conversion of One-
Family Dwellings. Notwithstanding any other provision of this subdivision to
the contrary, in the RD, R2, R3, R4 and R5 zones, only one automobile parking
space is required for each dwelling unit which results from the conversion of
an existing one-family dwelling, by the interior structural alteration
thereof or by the addition of not more than 250 square feet of floor area
thereto, into two or more dwelling units and all such newly created dwelling
units are rental units. (Added by Ord. No. 157,220, Eff. 12/11/82.)



 



   (u)   Senior Independent Housing / Assisted Living Care Housing /
Housing Development Occupied By Disabled Persons.  (Amended by Ord. No.
178,063, Eff. 12/30/06.)  Except for Skilled Nursing Care Housing and
Alzheimer's / Dementia Care Housing, the number of parking spaces required
for Senior Independent Housing, Assisted Living Care Housing, or a housing
development occupied by disabled persons as set forth below, may be reduced
to 50 percent of the number otherwise required by this subdivision if all of
the following requirements are met:



 



   (1)   Each dwelling unit or guest room in the development shall be
occupied by at least one person who is disabled or 62 years of age or older,
except for management or maintenance personnel who are required to live on
the premises.  For purposes of this paragraph, a disabled person is a person
who has: (a) physical or mental disabilities, which seriously restricts that
person from operating a motor vehicle; (b) is expected to be of long,
continued and indefinite duration; (c) substantially impedes his or her
ability to live independently; and (d) is of a nature that the ability to
live independently could be improved by more suitable housing conditions.



 



   (2)   There shall also be provided at least ten square feet of
indoor recreation space and at least 50 square feet of usable open space for
each dwelling unit in the development, both of which shall be available and
accessible to all residents of the development.  The open space may be
located on the ground, on terraces or on rooftops, shall be landscaped or
developed for active or passive recreation and may include roofed recreation
areas, swimming pools, or unenclosed porches where not otherwise
prohibited.  The open space may include walkways, but shall not include land
used for required front or side yards, private streets, driveways,
passageways, parking, loading or service areas.



 



   (3)   Prior to the issuance of a building permit for construction of
the development, the owner shall execute and record in the Office of the
County Recorder of Los Angeles County, as a covenant running with the land
for the benefit of the City of Los Angeles, an agreement that if the
Department of Building and Safety determines that the development ceases to
qualify under Subparagraph (1) above, the owner will at the written request
of the Department of Building and Safety develop the additional parking
spaces otherwise required for the development by this subdivision.



 



   (v)   Exception for Pre-1934 Public Branch Libraries.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code to the contrary, no
off-street automobile parking spaces shall be required in connection with a
building or structure, or portion thereof, or subsequent addition thereto,
which is used primarily for the operation of a City of Los Angeles public
branch library if built prior to 1934 and administered by the City Board of
Library Commissioners. (Added by Ord. No. 159,920, Eff. 7/7/85.)



 



   (w)   Shelter for the Homeless. The number of automobile parking
spaces required for a “shelter for the homeless” as defined in Section
12.03 of this Code, located within 1,000 feet of a public transit stop may be
reduced to 25 percent of the number otherwise required by Paragraphs (a)
through (v), inclusive, of this Subdivision 4, but in no event less than two
spaces for any such shelter. The number of automobile parking spaces required
for a “shelter for the homeless” as defined in Section 12.03 of this
Code, located 1,000 feet or more from a public transit stop, may be reduced
to 25 percent of the number otherwise required by Paragraphs (a) through (v),
inclusive, of this Subdivision 4, plus two spaces. (Added by Ord. No.
161,427, Eff. 8/2/86.)



 



   (x)   Exception for Council Approved Agreements and
Historic/Cultural Buildings, and Specified Exception Areas.  (Added by Ord.
No. 165,773, Eff. 5/21/90.)



 



   (1)   For any project for which an Owner Participation Agreement or
Developer Disposition Agreement has been signed between the owner or
developer of a project and the Community Redevelopment Agency and approved by
Council before February 28, 1989, the parking required shall be either the
number of parking spaces described in the subject agreement, or the parking
required by the Los Angeles Municipal Code as of February 29, 1989, whichever
is greater.



 



   (2)   Notwithstanding any provisions of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code to the contrary, for any structure designated on the National Register
of Historic places or State or City list of historical or cultural monuments,
no additional automobile or bicycle parking spaces need be provided in
connection with a change of use.  Nevertheless, a decision-making body, as
part of a discretionary approval related to a change of use, may impose
conditions requiring additional parking requirements in connection with the
change of use.  Existing parking for such buildings shall be maintained if
the proposed use requires the same or more parking.  If the floor area of
such a building is increased, then automobile and bicycle parking shall be
provided for the increased floor area as set forth in Sections 12.21 A.4. and
12.21 A.16.  The parking requirements for existing buildings set forth in
Section 12.21 A.4.(m) shall still apply to an historic building and any
change of use of that building.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,386, Eff. 3/13/13.)



 



   (3)   Except for the Downtown Business District parking area
described in Section 12.21A,4(i) the following described areas there need
only be two parking spaces for every one thousand square feet of combined
gross floor area of commercial office, business, retail, restaurant, bar and
related uses, trade schools, or research and development buildings on any lot:



 



   1.   Chinatown Redevelopment Project Area, delineated by Ordinance
No. 153,385;



 



   2.   Hollywood Redevelopment Project Area, delineated by Ordinance
No. 161,202;



 



   3.   Wilshire Center/Koreatown Recovery Redevelopment Project Area,
delineated by Ordinance No. 170,806;  (Amended by Ord. No. 177,103, Eff.
12/18/05.)



 



   4.   Central Business District Redevelopment Project Areas
delineated by Ordinance Nos. l40,069; 113,231; 135,900; 140,662; 147,480;



 



   5.   North Hollywood Redevelopment Area, delineated by Ordinance No.
152,030;



 



   6.   Any Enterprise Zone as that term is defined in Section 12.21.4
of this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.)



 



   7.   (Repealed by Ord. No. 177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.)



 



   8.   (Repealed by Ord. No. 177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.)



 



   9.   (Repealed by Ord. No. 177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.)



 



   10.   (Repealed by Ord. No. 177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.)



 



   (y)   City Planning Commission Authority for Reduced On-Site Parking
with Remote Off-site Parking or Transportation Alternatives.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.) The City Planning Commission may, upon
application, authorize reduced on-site parking and remote off-site parking. 
The City Planning Commission authorization may only be approved in connection
with a City Planning Commission approval of an application or appeal
otherwise subject to its jurisdiction including the following: the City
Planning Commission action on an application for a zone change, height
district change, supplemental use district, and conditional use pursuant to
Section 12.24U; the City Planning Commission action on a tentative tract map
appeal, a vesting tentative tract map appeal, a development agreement; and
the City Planning Commission action on a request for a density bonus greater
than the minimum 25 percent required by California Government Code Section
65915, exception from a specific plan, or a project permit pursuant to a
moratorium ordinance or interim control ordinance.  In exercising this
authority, the City Planning Commission shall act on an application in the
same manner and subject to the same limitations as applicable to the Zoning
Administrator, under Section 12.27X.  However, the procedures for notice,
hearing, time limits, appeals and Council review shall be the same as those
applicable to the underlying discretionary approval.



 



   5.   Design of Parking Facilities. Every parking area and garage
providing required or non-required parking stalls, other than those parking
areas in garages lawfully in existence on February 9, 1972, shall be
designed, improved, and maintained in accordance with the following
regulations, provided, however, that any parking stall in which the normal
turning pattern is obstructed shall be designed in accordance with standards
established by the Superintendent of Building. (Amended by Ord. No. 142,418,
Eff. 10/15/71, Oper.  2/9/72.)



 



   (a)   Parking Stall Dimensions. (Amended by Ord. No. 142,306, Eff.
9/13/71, Oper. 2/9/72.)



 




PARKING BAY DIMENSIONS CHART NO. 1





(Added by Ord. NO. 142,306, Eff. 9/13/71, Oper. 2/9/72.)
















 



 




PARKING BAY DIMENSIONS CHART NO. 2





(Added by Ord. NO. 142,306, Eff. 9/13/71, Oper. 2/9/72.)
















 



 




PARKING BAY DIMENSIONS CHART NO. 3





(Added by Ord. NO. 142,306, Eff. 9/13/71, Oper. 2/9/72.)
















 



 




PARKING BAY DIMENSIONS CHART NO. 4





(Added by Ord. NO. 142,306, Eff. 9/13/71, Oper. 2/9/72.)
















 



 



   (1)   Width. (Amended by Ord. No. 179,191, Eff. 11/5/07.)  Every
parking stall provided for dwelling units shall be at least 8 feet 6 inches
wide, every compact stall shall be at least 7 feet 6 inches wide, and every
other parking stall shall be at least 8 feet 4 inches wide, except that:



 



   (i)   Every parallel parking stall shall be at least 8 feet wide;



 



   (ii)   Every parking stall, other than those provided for a
one-family or two- family dwelling, which is adjoined on either side of its
longer dimension by a fence, wall, partition, column, post or similar
obstruction, and said obstruction is located less than 14 feet from the
access aisle measured along the length of the stall, shall have its minimum
width increased by at least 10 inches on the side of the obstruction.



 



   (iii)   Exception:  (Added by Ord. No. 182,110, Eff. 5/29/12.) 
The required width and length of a parking stall may be reduced to
accommodate a structure solely supporting a solar energy system if it meets
all of the following conditions:



 



   a.   The structural elements are within 10 inches of a corner of the
stall farthest from the access aisle or driveway.



 



   b.   For tandem spaces, dimensions are reduced only for the stall
farthest from the access driveway.



 



   c.   The reductions are not applied to a disabled parking stall.



 



   d.   The parking lot already exists and is not new construction.



 



   See diagram below:



 









 



   (2)   Length. Every compact parking stall shall be at least 15 feet
long, every parallel parking stall shall be at least 26 feet long, and every
other parking stall shall be at least 18 feet long.



 



   (b)   Parking Bay Dimensions. The minimum width of each parking bay
shall be determined by the stall width and parking angle in accordance with
Chart Nos. 1, 2, 3 and 4 of this section. Where parking stalls of two bays
interlock the parking bays may overlap. (Amended by Ord. No. 142,306, Eff.
9/13/71, Oper. 2/9/72.)



 



   (c)   Compact Stalls. (Amended by Ord. No. 156,979, Eff. 9/25/82.) 
In each parking area or garage devoted to parking for dwelling uses all
parking stalls in excess of one parking stall per dwelling unit may be
designed as compact parking stalls to accommodate compact cars.



 



   In each parking area or garage containing 10 or more parking stalls for
other than dwelling uses, not more than 40 percent of the required stalls may
be designed as compact stalls to accommodate compact cars. Such restriction
shall not apply to parking stalls in excess of the number of required stalls.
All other provisions of this section shall apply to each parking stall.



 



   The minimum bay widths required by Paragraph (b) of this subdivision
may be reduced for bays or portions of bays containing compact stalls.



 



   Each stall designed to accommodate a compact car shall be clearly
marked as a compact stall. Each parking area or garage containing 10 or more
parking stalls of which more than 20 percent are in compact stalls shall have
a sign posted at each entrance or other appropriate locations which shall
contain the following information: (i) compact cars are to be parked in
compact stalls when available, (ii) standard-sized cars shall not be parked
in compact only stalls, (iii) problems concerning parking should be reported
to the property owner or a designated representative, and (iv) the phone
number of the property owner or designated representative.



 



   The sign requirements of this section shall not apply to any parking
area or garage that has been granted authority by the Office of Zoning
Administrator to increase compact parking prior to May 21, 1981 so long as
such parking area or garage conforms to the terms and conditions of such
grant.



 



   (d)   Attended Commercial Parking Lots. A public parking area
containing no required parking stalls and providing attendants to park the
vehicles at all times when said area is open for use shall be designed in
compliance with Paragraphs (c), (f), (g), (i) and (k) of this subdivision,
but shall not be subject to the requirements set forth in any other paragraph
of this subdivision. (Amended by Ord. No. 142,306, Eff. 9/13/71, Oper.
2/9/72.)



 



   (e)   Driveway Location. Access driveways to every parking area and
garage shall be designed in accordance with Sections 62.105.1, 62.105.2,
62.105.3 and 62.105.4 of this Code, and in a manner to provide the minimum
practical interference with the use of adjacent property and with pedestrian
or vehicular traffic.



 



   Such driveways shall be located in accordance with a plan approved by
the Department of Building and Safety in the following instances:



 



   (1)   On a lot in a P (including any combination with an A or R
Zone) or PB Zone.



 



   (2)   For every parking area or garage having a capacity of more
than 25 automobiles or trucks.



 



   The Department of Building and Safety shall disapprove any plan which
it determines fails to meet the standards established by this paragraph.



 



   (f)   Driveway Width.  (Amended by Ord. No. 184,802, Eff.
3/17/17.)  Every access driveway shall be at least 9 feet in width in the A,
RE, RS, R1, RU, RZ, R2, RMP and RW Zones, and 10 feet in width in the RD, R3,
RAS3, R4, RAS4, R5, P, PB, C and M Zones; provided, however, every access
driveway serving a parking area or garage having a capacity of more than 25
automobiles or trucks shall be at least 19 feet in width, or in lieu thereof,
there shall be two access driveways, each of which is at least 10 feet in
width; provided, further, however, that an access driveway serving an
apartment house erected in the R2 Zone shall be at least 10 feet in width.



 



   Except that in the R1 Zone, when not designated as a Hillside Area on
the Department of City Planning Hillside Area Map, driveway width at the
front property line shall not exceed 25 percent of the lot width or the width
of any currently existing driveway, whichever is greater; provided, however,
that nothing in this paragraph shall be deemed to require a driveway less
than 9 feet in width at the front property line.



 



   (g)   Driveway and Ramp Slopes. The slope of every driveway or ramp
shall not exceed 20 percent, except that where an existing driveway being
used for access is required to be modified because of a public improvement
project, such grade may exceed 20 percent provided the design is approved by
the City Engineer.



 



   Transition slopes in driveways and ramps shall be designed to the 
standards established by the Superintendent of Building and the City Engineer.



 



   (h)   Tandem Parking.  (Amended by Ord. No. 179,191, Eff.
11/5/07.)  Each required parking stall within a parking area or garage shall
be accessible.  Automobiles may be parked in tandem in the following
instances:



 



   (1)   In a public garage or public parking area, which provides
attendants to park vehicles at all times the garage or area is open for use.



 



   (2)   In a private garage or private parking area serving a
one-family dwelling, an apartment house, apartment hotel, hotel, two-family
dwelling, or multiple or group dwelling, where the tandem parking is not more
than two cars in depth.  Tandem parking shall not be allowed in parking
areas for recreational vehicles or guest parking.



 



   (i)   Parking Stall Location. (Amended by Ord. No. 144,082, Eff.
12/11/72.) Each automobile parking stall shall be so located that:



 



   (1)   No automobile is required to back onto any public street or
sidewalk to leave the parking stall, parking bay or driveway, except where
such parking stalls, parking bays or driveways serve not more than two
dwelling units and where the driveway access is to a street other than a
major or secondary highway. (Amended by Ord. No. 151,608, Eff. 11/26/78.)



 



   (2)   Parking maneuvers can be accomplished without driving onto
that portion of a required front yard where driveways are prohibited. Car
stops or other barriers shall be provided in accordance with Section
12.21-A.6. (Amended by Ord. No. 144,082, Eff. 12/11/72.)



 



   (j)   Internal Circulation. All portions of a public parking area
or, public garage shall be accessible to all other portions thereof without
requiring the use of any public street, unless the Department of
Transportation determines that such use is not detrimental to the flow of
traffic. (Amended by Ord. No. 152,425, Eff. 6/29/79.)



 



   The driveway width within a public garage shall maintain a constant
width for its entire length.  (Added by Ord. No. 179,191, Eff. 11/5/07.)



 



   (k)   Lighting.  (Amended by Ord. No. 171,858, Eff. 1/23/98.)  All
lights used to illuminate a parking area shall be designed, located and
arranged so as to reflect the light away from any street and any adjacent
premises.



 



   EXCEPTION:  (Amended by Ord. No. 177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.)



 



   Lights in compliance with Sections 91.6305 and 91.8607 of the Code.



 



   All parking areas and garages provided for three or more dwelling units
or guest rooms shall have an average surface illumination of not less than
0.2 footcandles (2.15 lx).



 



   All parking areas and garages provided for three or more dwelling units
or guest rooms shall have an average surface illumination of not less than
0.2 footcandles (2.15 lx).



 



   (l)   Striping.  All parking stalls, other than those serving a
one-family dwelling, shall be striped substantially in accordance with the
illustrations set forth on Chart No. 5 of this section.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 179,191, Eff. 11/5/07.)



 




STRIPING FOR PARKING STALLS CHART NO. 5





(Added by Ord. NO. 142,306, Eff. 9/13/71, Oper. 2/9/72.)











STANDARD PARKING STALLS





























COMPACT PARKING STALLS
















 



   (m)   Mechanical Automobile Lifts and Robotic Parking Structures. 
The stacking of two or more automobiles via a mechanical car lift or
computerized parking structure is permitted in all zones.  The platform of
the mechanical lift on which the automobile is first placed shall be
individually and easily accessible and shall be placed so that the location
of the platform and vehicular access to the platform meet the requirements of
paragraphs (a), (b), and (i) of this subdivision.  The lift equipment or
computerized parking structure shall meet any applicable building, mechanical
and electrical code requirements as approved by the Department of Building
and Safety.  (Added by Ord. No. 179,191, Eff. 11/5/07.)



 



   6.   Automobile Parking and Sales Area — Improvement. Every public
or private parking area or automobile, manufactured home or trailer sales
area other than those lawfully in existence on August 21, 1969, shall be
arranged, improved and maintained in accordance with the following
regulations: (Amended by Ord. No. 161,716, Eff. 12/6/86.)



 



   (a)   Yard Areas. (Title and Par. (a) amended by Ord. No. 152,949,
Eff. 9/21/79.) Where a public parking area is the principal use of land in
the A or R zones, or in any combination of an A or R zone with a P zone, the
public parking area shall not extend into the portion of the lot within 10
feet of the front lot line.



 



   Where parking is an accessory use of land in the A and R zones, the
parking area may occupy the remainder of the lot, except for the required A
or R zone front yard, and a five foot side yard along the side street lot
line of a corner lot.



 



   (b)   (None)



 



   (c)   Paving and Car Stops.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,431, Eff.
3/24/13.)  Every parking area, every parking garage required by the
provisions of this article, every automobile storage area (except those areas
utilized for the temporary storage of automobiles for not to exceed six
months in any calendar year), every automobile, manufactured home or trailer
sales area, and every driveway shall be paved with hard, durable asphaltic
paving which has been mixed at a plant and is at least two inches thick after
compaction, with portland cement paving at least three inches thick or with
an alternative paving material described below.  All such areas shall have
appropriate bumper guards, wheel stops, steel posts, walls, curbs, suitable
landscaping or other installations adequate to prevent vehicles from parking
or maneuvering on those portions of a lot upon which a driveway or parking
area is prohibited, or into a public right-of-way, or where those portions of
a lot are needed to prevent encroachment on walkways or adjoining properties.



 



   Alternative Paving Materials.  An alternative paving material is one
of the following:  porous asphalt, porous concrete, permeable interlocking
concrete pavers, permeable pavers, decomposed granite, crushed rock, gravel,
and restrained systems (a plastic or concrete grid system confined on all
sides to restrict lateral movement, and filled with gravel or grass in the
voids.)  Alternative paving materials are permitted for use in every parking
area, automobile storage area, automobile, manufactured home or trailer sales
area, and driveways, subject to:



 



   (1)   Any product installed within areas designated by the Fire
Department as fire lane must be approved by the Fire Department.



 



   (2)   Permeable interlocking concrete pavers and permeable pavers
shall have a minimum thickness of 80 mm (3.14 inches).



 



   (3)   If plantings are an element of the alternative paving
material, the irrigation system shall not utilize potable water except for
plant establishment.



 



   (4)   Products and underlying drainage material shall be installed
per manufacturers' specifications.  Sub-grade soils shall be compacted as
required per the product installation specifications.



 



   (5)   Decomposed granite, crushed rock and gravel shall only be
allowed for driveways and parking areas serving only one or two residential
unit(s).



 



   (6)   All projects shall be compliant with all other provisions of
the Los Angeles Municipal Code and any applicable standards or guidelines.



 



   (d)   Wall Required. Every public or private parking area, or
automobile, manufactured home or trailer sales area shall be completely
enclosed with a wall except that no wall shall be required: (Amended by Ord.
No. 161,716, Eff. 12/6/86.)



 



   (1)   across necessary driveways;



 



   (2)   on a lot in an M2 or M3 Zone;



 



   (3)   along a lot line abutting an alley, a public parking area, or
a P (not including the A or R zones), PB, C or M zones;



 



   (4)   along any portion of a lot line, including the front lot line
where no parking area or access driveway is located within 15 feet of said
line, when adequate safeguards are provided to prevent vehicles from
occupying said 15 foot space and said space is landscaped;



 



   (5)   along any lot line of an automobile sales area that abuts a
street, provided, however, such sales area incorporates landscaped area or
areas in the amount of at least three percent of said sales area.



 



   (e)   Wall Height. (Amended by Ord. No. 147,913, Eff. 1/23/76.) The
wall required by Paragraph (d) hereof or constructed in compliance with
Paragraphs (g) or (h) hereof, shall be not less than five feet nine inches in
height, except under the following circumstances:



 



   (1)   The wall shall not be less than four feet in height in any lot
where the surface of the parking area is raised one foot nine inches or more
above the natural ground, said wall to be measured from the finished grade of
the parking area. Provided, however, that where the wall requirements here
specified would exceed those specified in Section 12.22-C,20(f), the
provisions of Section 12.22-C,20(f) shall control.



 



   (2)   The wall shall not be less than three feet in height under the
following circumstances:



 



   (ii-a)   On that portion of a lot in the A or R zone which extends
into the required front yard;



 



   (ii-b)   On that portion of a lot in a P (not including the A or R
zones), PB, C or M1 zone within 15 feet of the front lot line



 



   (ii-c)   On that portion of a corner lot within five feet of the
side street lot line.



 



   (ii-d)   Along any lot line abutting a street.



 



   (f)   Wall Construction and Maintenance. (Amended by Ord. No.
158,894, Eff. 6/8/84.) Walls required by this subdivision or constructed in
compliance with Paragraphs (g) and (h) hereof, when located along the lot
lines of parking areas and said lot lines abut a street, shall be of concrete
or masonry construction, but need not be solid walls, provided that any open
areas in said walls shall be designed for architectural effect. Walls, or
portions of walls, abutting a street and constructed above the minimum three
foot height required by this subdivision shall be designed to permit
visibility into the parking area from the street and shall be constructed of
wrought iron, vista-type masonry or other materials as approved by the
Department of Building and Safety.



 



   All other walls required by this subdivision shall be without openings,
and shall be of concrete or masonry provided, however, that other materials
may be used in the construction of the wall enclosing a private parking area
containing not more than four parking spaces. All concrete or masonry walls
shall have a minimum nominal thickness of six inches unless designed to
withstand lateral force and constructed pursuant to plans approved by the
Department of Building and Safety.



 



   All walls shall be maintained in good condition.



 



   (g)   Improvement. Where a lot located in all zones but the A, R, or
A or R in combination with a P zone is used for a public parking area for
more than 20 vehicles and is offering as its prime service the commercial
parking of motor vehicles for the public at large, at least two percent of
the parking area shall be devoted to improvement as follows:



 



   (1)   One-half of the required two percent improvement shall be
credited for street trees planted in accordance with plans approved  by the
Street Tree Division of the Bureau of Street Maintenance. Approval shall be
granted for any plan which complies with the Master Plan for Street Trees.
Existing street trees shall be considered in satisfying this provision;



 



   (2)   One-half of the required two percent improvement shall be
credited for walls, providing walls are constructed along all lot lines
abutting a street. Existing walls shall be credited.



 



   (3)   Up to and including one-half of the two percent improvement
shall be credited for landscaped setback areas, provided that the total of
such setback area is equal to that percent of the total parking area being
created.



 



   (4)   Up to and including one-half of the two percent improvement
shall be credited for interior landscaping, provided that the total of such
landscaped area is equal to that percent of the total parking area being
credited.



 



   (5)   On those lots having no street frontage two percent
improvement shall be credited for interior landscaping, provided that the
total of such landscaped area is equal to the percent of the total parking
area credited.



 



   (h)   Improvement. Where a lot located in either an A, R, or A or R
in combination with a P zone, or is serving as a parking area for the primary
use of as specific building or buildings, and said lot is used for a public
or private parking area for more than 20 vehicles, at least four percent of
the parking area shall be devoted to improvements as follows:



 



   (1)   One-fourth of the required four percent improvement shall be
credited for street trees planted in accordance with plans approved by the
Street Tree Division. Approval shall be granted for any plan which complies
with the Master Plan for Street Trees. Existing street trees shall be
considered in satisfying this provision;



 



   (2)   One-fourth of the required four percent improvement shall be
credited for walls, provided that walls are constructed along all lot lines
abutting a street. Existing walls shall be credited;



 



   (3)   Up to and including three-fourths of the four percent
improvement shall be credited for landscaped setback areas, provided that the
total of said setback area is equal to the percent of the total parking area
credited;



 



   (4)   Up to and including three-fourths of the four percent
improvement shall be credited for interior landscaping, provided that the
total of such landscaped area is equal to that percent of the total parking
area being credited;



 



   (5)   On those lots having no street frontage, four percent
improvement shall be credited for interior landscaping provided the total of
such landscaped area is equal to that percent of the total parking area being
credited.



 



   (i)   Landscaping. (Amended by Ord. No. 152,467, Eff. 7/14/79.) 
Those portions of a lot developed as a public parking area on which
automobile parking is prohibited by paragraph (a) above, or otherwise not
improved, shall be fully landscaped with lawn, trees, shrubs or suitable
groundcover, and no portion except the access driveways shall be paved.



 



   Where a wall is not required along any lot line of an automobile sales
area abutting a street, said sales area shall incorporate a landscaped area
or areas in the amount of at least three percent of said sales areas.



 



   All landscaping required by the provisions of this subsection or
provided in compliance with Paragraphs (g) or (h) hereof shall be installed
in accordance with a plan approved by the City Planning Department. Approval
shall be granted for any wherein the design and materials proposed therein
are reasonably appropriate for the use and appearance of the parking area.
Such landscaped areas shall be equipped with a water sprinkler system and
shall be maintained free of weeds and debris.



 



   (j)   Lighting. All lights used to illuminate an automobile,
manufactured home or trailer sales area shall be designed, located and
arranged so as to reflect the light away from any street and any adjacent
premises. Parking areas and garages shall conform to the lighting
requirements of Sec. 12.21-A, 5(k). (Amended by Ord. No. 161,716, Eff.
12/6/86.)



 



   (k)   Intersection Obstruction. The provisions of this subsection
shall not be construed as permitting any obstruction at a street intersection
contrary to the provisions of Section 62.200 of this Code.



 



   7.   (Amended by Ord. No. 174,547, Eff. 6/10/02.)  No nameplate,
sign or advertising matter of any kind shall be placed or maintained on any
lot in any zone except in accordance with the following regulations:



 



   (a)   All nameplates, signs and advertising matter on a lot in an
“A” or “R” Zone shall pertain to a permitted use (except that no
signs shall be permitted to identify a home occupation) or indicate the name
of the occupant and shall be located on the same lot with that use;



 



   (b)   No nameplate, sign or advertising matter, which is attached to
a building on a lot in an “A” or “R” Zone, may project above the roof
ridge or parapet wall (whichever is the higher) of the building;



 



   (c)   No illuminated nameplate, identification sign or advertising
matter, which is permitted by this subdivision, may be of the flashing,
moving or animated type;



 



   (d)   There may be only one unlighted nameplate for each dwelling
unit on a lot in an “A” or “R” Zone indicating the name of the
occupant, (except that no signs shall be permitted to identify a home
occupation), and no nameplate may exceed three square feet in area in an
“A” Zone, nor exceed one and one-half square feet in area in an “R”
Zone;



 



   (e)   There may be one or more unlighted signs pertaining to the
sale of farm products raised or produced on the premises, but the total area
of all these signs shall not exceed 20 square feet on any lot in an “A”
Zone, nor exceed 12 feet on any lot in an “R” Zone;



 



   (f)   There may be one or more unlighted signs pertaining to the
prospective rental or sale of the property, but the total area of all these
signs shall not exceed 20 square feet on any lot in an “A” Zone, nor
exceed 12 square feet on any lot in an “R” Zone;



 



   (g)   There may be one identification sign for each farm, ranch,
estate or building other than a dwelling in an “A” Zone, but that
identification sign may not exceed 20 square feet in area;



 



   (h)   There may be one or more signs identifying the buildings or
permitted use (except that no signs shall be permitted to identify a home
occupation) on any lot in any “R” Zone, but no one sign may have a
surface area which exceeds 20 square feet, nor shall the total surface area
of all these signs exceed 30 square feet;



 



   (i)   There may be one church bulletin board, not exceeding 18
square feet in area, on any lot in any “A” or “R” Zone;



 



   (j)   There may be one or more signs, warning against trespassing,
on any lot in an “A” Zone, but no one sign shall exceed three square feet
in area.



 



   (k)   Temporary Subdivision Directional Signs.  Notwithstanding any
other provision of this article, a Zoning Administrator may approve the use
of any property in an “A” or “R” Zone for the erection and
maintenance of temporary unlighted subdivision directional signs, which are
neither reflective nor fluorescent, if he or she finds that the location of
the signs is proper in relation to uses of adjacent property and that the use
will not be materially detrimental to the property of other persons located
in that vicinity.  This approval shall be subject to the following
regulations: 



 



   (1)   An application shall be filed in the Office of Zoning
Administration upon a form and accompanied by the data and information as has
been prescribed by the Office.  Each application shall be consented to and
acknowledged by the owner or lessee of each parcel of property upon which a
sign is to erected.  Only one application need be filed for all temporary,
unlighted, subdivision directional signs relating to a single subdivision
separately numbered and recorded by the Los Angeles County Recorder.  The
manner of installation and conditions regulating number, size and type of
signs shall be determined and approved by a Zoning Administrator.  To the
extent possible, he or she shall make available a list or explanation of
those installation features and conditions that are usually required.



 



   (2)   An approval to erect and maintain signs pursuant to this
paragraph shall be valid for one year.  If, after one year, 3/4 of the
dwelling units or lots have not been sold or leased for the first time,
approval for retaining the directional signs for not more than an additional
one-year period may be granted by a Zoning Administrator. 



 



   (3)   No sign erected pursuant to this paragraph shall exceed 12
square feet in area.



 



   (4)   One temporary, unlighted, subdivision directional sign may be
approved for location adjacent to each street which constitutes a separate
and distinct direction on the route from a major or secondary highway to a
subdivision site.  Where there are two or more major or secondary highways
from which there are routes to a subdivision site, signs may be approved only
along two routes.



 



   (5)   The erection and maintenance of temporary, unlighted,
subdivision directional signs may be approved only on vacant property;
however, if a Zoning Administrator determines that vacant property is not
available in locations where provisions for travel directions are essential,
he or she may approve developed property for the location of signs.



 



   (6)   Signs may not be located within the public right-of-way of any
highway, street, alley, or on any other public right-of-way.



 



   (7)   All signs permitted by this paragraph shall be removed within
five days after the expiration of the authorized time period.  Each
application shall contain a statement signed by the applicant, the owner of
the signs, and the owner or lessee of the property upon which the signs are
to be placed, agreeing that if the signs are not removed as required above,
they may be confiscated, removed and destroyed by the City without further
notice.  Prior to the erection of any signs authorized pursuant to any
single application, the applicant shall deposit $100 with the Department of
Building and Safety for the purposes of defraying any expense incurred by the
City in the removal of the signs.  This money shall be refunded on the
expiration of the prescribed time period if all of the signs have been
removed by the applicant, the owner of the signs, or the owner and the lessee
of the property where the signs are placed.



 



   (8)   Any sign erected pursuant to these regulations may be used
only for the purpose of providing necessary travel direction to a subdivision
development located in the City of Los Angeles, and must include the name of
the owner, the City Planning Department file number, and the expiration date
of the approval period.  The sign may contain the name of the land
development project to which it pertains, including a characteristic
trademark or other identifying insignia.  The content of each sign shall be
subject to approval by a Zoning Administrator.



 



   (9)   The approval of temporary subdivision directional signs
pursuant to these regulations does not release the applicant from the
responsibilities of complying with any provisions of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code pertaining to building permit requirements or any other
provisions of the Code regulating signs.



 



   (10)   Appeals.  Appeals from a determination by a Zoning
Administrator may be taken to the Area Planning Commission in the manner
prescribed in Section 12.24 I.



 



   (l)   Off-site signs.  No off-site sign shall be allowed in any
zone, except when off-site signs are specifically permitted pursuant to a
legally adopted specific plan, supplemental use district, an approved
development agreement, or a relocation agreement entered into pursuant to
California Business and Professions Code Section 5412.  Further, legally
permitted existing signs shall not be altered or enlarged.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 176,800, Eff. 8/15/05.)



 



   8.   Dismantling, Repairing and Storing of Vehicles – Where
Prohibited. (Added by Ord. No. 137,210, Eff. 10/12/68.)



 



   (a)   No person shall dismantle, repair, or otherwise perform any
work upon any vehicle, machine, motor, appliance or other similar device,
other than to effect minor emergency repairs to a motor vehicle, on any
property in the A or R Zones unless such activity is incidental to a
permitted or a conditionally permitted use and is conducted within a building
or within an area wholly enclosed from view by a wall or fence conforming to
the requirements of this Code.



 



   (b)   No vehicle (except those upon which minor emergency repairs
are presently being effected), machine, motor, appliance or other similar
device from which any part has been removed, or which is inoperable for any
reason, shall be stored, maintained, or kept on any property in the A or R
Zones as an activity incidental to a permitted or conditionally permitted use
except within a building or within an area which is wholly enclosed from view
by a wall or fence conforming to the requirements of this Code.



 



   9.   Fences and Walls.  Whenever fences or walls are required by
any of the provisions of this chapter or by a variance, conditional use,
supplemental use district or other authorized Planning Department
determination, said fences or walls shall be maintained in good repair and
shall be kept vertical, uniform and structurally sound, and all repairs shall
blend in with said fence or wall and be compatible therewith in color and
material. Fences constructed of wood, metal, Masonite, or similar materials
shall be uniformly painted or stained or otherwise treated or sealed to
prevent weathering or deterioration. (Amended by Ord. No. 146,030, Eff.
7/11/74.)



 



   10.   Alcoholic Beverages.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff.
7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Code to
the contrary, no building, structure or land shall be used for sale or
dispensing for consideration of any alcoholic beverage, including beer and
wine, for consumption on the premises except upon premises approved for that
use in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.24.  The provisions of
this subdivision shall not abrogate, however, any right to the continued use
of premises for these purposes pursuant to Section 12.24L.  Certain
restaurants may be excepted from the provisions of this subdivision and
Section 12.24 pursuant to authority of the Zoning Administrator contained in
Section 12.24X2.



 



   11.   Tennis or Paddle Tennis Courts.  A tennis or paddle tennis
court, constructed as an accessory use to the primary residential use on the
same lot in the A or R Zones, shall comply with specific construction and
operation standards as may be established by the Zoning Administrator
pursuant to Subsection C.4. of this section and shall be located as required
in Subsection C.5. of this section.  (Amended by Ord. No. 177,103, Eff.
12/18/05.)



 



   12.   Protected Tree Relocation and Replacement.  All existing
protected trees and relocation and replacement trees specified by the
Advisory Agency in accordance with Sections 17.02, 17.05, 17.06, 17.51 and
17.52 of this Code shall be indicated on a plot plan attached to the building
permit issued pursuant to this Code.  In addition, the trees shall be
identified and described by map and documentation as required by the Advisory
Agency.  A Certificate of Occupancy may be issued by the Department of
Building and Safety, provided the owner of the property or authorized person
representing the owner of the property (licensed contractor) obtains from the
Advisory Agency in consultation with the City's Chief Forester, prior to the
final inspection for the construction, a written or electronic document
certifying that all the conditions set forth by the Advisory Agency relative
to protected trees have been met.  (Amended by Ord. No. 177,404, Eff.
4/23/06.)



 



   13.   Permitted Incidental Use for Bingo.  The conducting of any
game of bingo authorized pursuant to the provisions of Article 4.5 of Chapter
IV of this Code shall be permitted in the A, R, CR and C1 zones as an
activity incidental to any permitted or conditionally permitted use therein
for a school, church, lodge, auditorium, recreational and community center or
other similar use, provided that the off-street automobile parking space
requirements of Subdivision 4 of Section 12.21A have been satisfied. Parking
spaces provided in satisfaction of such requirements for the permitted
incidental use for bingo shall not be subject to the requirements set forth
in Subdivisions 5, 6 and 9 of Section 12.21 A of this Code.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 153,620, Eff. 5/18/80.)



 



   14.   Alcoholic Beverages.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff.
7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Code to
the contrary, no building, structure or land shall be used for the sale or
dispensing for consideration of any alcoholic beverage, including beer and
wine, for consumption off-site of the premises except upon premises approved
for that use in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.24.  The
provisions of this subdivision shall not abrogate any right to the continued
use of premises for those purposes pursuant to Section 12.24L of this Code.



 



   The provisions of this subdivision shall not apply to the sale or
dispensing, for consideration, of alcoholic beverages, including beer and
wine, for consumption off-site of the premises, if the premises are located
within the area of an operative specific plan which provides for conditional
use approval for the sale or dispensing.  If such a specific plan ceases to
be operative, then a conditional use approval granted pursuant to the
provisions of that specific plan, for the sales or dispensing, may continue
subject to the same rights and limitations as a conditional use granted
pursuant to the provisions of Section 12.24 of this Code.



 



   15.   (Repealed by Ord. No. 171,740, Eff. 10/27/97.)



 



   16.   Bicycle Parking and Shower Facilities.  (Amended by Ord. No.
185,480, Eff. 5/9/18.)  Bicycle parking spaces and facilities for employee
showers and lockers shall be provided for new development and additions that
increase the floor area of a building as follows:



 



   (a)   Land Uses.



 



   (1)   Residential.



 



   (i)   Dwelling Units.  For all residential buildings other than
hotels and motels containing more than three dwelling units, long- and
short-term bicycle parking shall be provided according to the ratios
specified for each marginal increment of dwelling units specified in Table
12.21 A.16.(a)(1)(i).  A minimum of two short-term bicycle parking spaces
shall be provided in all cases.



 




Table 12.21 A.16.(a)(1)(i)
Required Short-term and Long-term Bicycle Parking Spaces by Residential
Dwelling Unit




 



 

Dwelling Units
 
Short-term Spaces
 
Long-term Spaces


1 - 25
 
1 space per 10 units
 
1 space per unit


26 - 100
 
1 space per 15 units
 
1 space per 1.5 units


101 - 200
 
1 space per 20 units
 
1 space per 2 units


201+
 
1 space per 40 units
 
1 space per 4 units



 



   (a)   Developments such as townhouses that include individually
accessed private garages for each unit shall not be required to provide
long-term bicycle parking.



 



   (b)   Required short- and long-term bicycle parking for the
following types of senior and eldercare housing shall be the same as for
institutional uses in Table 12.21 A.16.(a)(2): Alzheimer's/Dementia Care
Housing; Assisted Living Care Housing; Eldercare Facility; Senior Independent
Housing; Skilled Nursing Care Housing; Home for the Aged, No Medical or
Nursing Care; Home for the Aged, with Special Care, Philanthropic; Home for
the Aged, with Special Care, Private; and Retirement Hotel.



 



   (ii)   Guest Rooms.  All hotels, motels, and apartment hotels
containing more than five guest rooms shall provide both short- and long-term
bicycle parking, respectively, at a rate of one per ten guest rooms.  A
minimum of two short-term and two long-term bicycle parking spaces shall be
provided.



 



   (iii)   Buildings With Dwelling Units and Guest Rooms.  The total
amount of bicycle parking for a building containing both dwelling units and
guest rooms shall be calculated by adding the number of required bicycle
parking spaces for dwelling units to the number of required bicycle parking
spaces for guest rooms.  Any combination that results in more than five
combined dwelling units and guest rooms will require bicycle parking.



 



   (2)   Commercial, Institutional, and Industrial Uses.  For all
commercial, institutional, and industrial uses that require automobile
parking under Subsections 12.21 A.4.(c), (d), (e) and (f), short- and
long-term bicycle parking shall be provided as per Table 12.21 A.16.(a)(2).



 



   (i)   For uses listed in Table 12.21 A.16.(a)(2) a minimum of two
short-term and two long-term bicycle parking spaces shall be provided.



 



   (ii)   After the first 100 bicycle parking spaces are provided for
uses listed in Table 12.21 A.16.(a)(2), additional spaces may be provided at
the minimum number required by the California Green Building Standards Code
Section 5.106.4, as that section may be amended from time to time.



 




Table 12.21 A.16.(a)(2)
Required Bicycle Parking Spaces per Building Floor Area as Defined under
Section 12.03




 



 



Land Use

 

Short-term Bicycle Parking

 

Long-term Bicycle Parking






Commercial Uses




Office

 

1 per 10,000 sq. ft.
(minimum 2)

 

1 per 5,000 sq. ft.
(minimum 2)




Warehouse

 

1 per 10,000 sq. ft.
(minimum 2)

 

1 per 10,000 sq. ft.
(minimum 2)




Health Clubs

 

1 per 2,000 sq. ft.
(minimum 2)

 

1 per 2,000 sq. ft.
(minimum 2)




Restaurants and Bars, General

 

1 per 2,000 sq. ft.
(minimum 2)

 

1 per 2,000 sq. ft.
(minimum 2)




Restaurant, Small
(floor area less than 1,000 sq. ft.)

 

2 per restaurant

 

2 per restaurant




Retail Stores, General

 

1 per 2,000 sq. ft.
(minimum 2)

 

1 per 2,000 sq. ft.
(minimum 2)




Retail, Furniture Stores

 

1 per 10,000 sq. ft.
(minimum 2)

 

1 per 10,000 sq. ft.
(minimum 2)




Trade Schools, Private Universities, and Private Colleges

 

1 per 500 square feet or 1 per 50 fixed seats whichever is greater
(minimum 2)

 

1 per 1,000 square feet or 1 per 100 fixed seats whichever is greater
(minimum 2)




All other Commercial Uses

 

1 per 10,000 sq. ft.
(minimum 2)

 

1 per 10,000 sq. ft.
(minimum 2)




Institutional Uses




All Institutional Uses

 

1 per 10,000 sq. ft.
(minimum 2)

 

1 per 5,000 sq. ft.
(minimum 2)




Industrial Uses




All Industrial Uses

 

1 per 10,000 sq. ft.
(minimum 2)

 

1 per 10,000 sq. ft.
(minimum 2)




Other Uses




Auditoriums

 

1 per 350 square feet or 1 per 50 fixed seats whichever is greater
(minimum 2)

 

1 per 700 square feet or 1 per 100 fixed seats whichever is greater
(minimum 2)




Private Elementary Schools, Private High Schools, and Charter Schools

 

4 per classroom
(minimum 2)

 

1 per 10 classrooms
(minimum 2)





 



   (3)   Combination of Uses.  Where there is a combination of uses on
a lot, the number of bicycle parking spaces required shall be the sum of the
requirements of the various uses.  The exceptions provided in Section 12.21
A.4.(j) for automobile parking shall also apply to bicycle parking.



 



   (4)   City Owned and Leased Buildings and Parking Lots.  In all
buildings or parking lots used by the City of Los Angeles for government
purposes, including government office buildings, both short-term and
long-term bicycle parking shall be provided at a rate of 10 percent of the
required parking available on the site.  However, short- and long-term
bicycle parking shall be no less than five spaces each for the entire site.



 



   Buildings and lots owned by the City of Los Angeles that are leased for
private uses shall meet the bicycle parking required for commercial uses as
detailed in Table 12.21 A.16.(a)(2).



 



   (5)   Parks.  In Neighborhood Recreation Sites, Community
Recreation Sites, Regional Parks, and School Playgrounds, as defined in
Section 1 of the Service Systems Element - Public Recreation Plan of the
City's General Plan, short-term bicycle parking shall be provided at a rate
of 10 percent of the required automobile parking with a minimum of five
short-term bicycle parking spaces.  In Neighborhood Recreation Sites,
Community Recreation Sites, Regional Parks, and School Playgrounds where no
automobile parking is provided, at least five short-term bicycle parking
spaces will be provided, except that in park space of less than two acres in
which there are no recreational facilities requiring building permits, no
short-term bicycle parking shall be required.  Long-term bicycle parking
shall be provided as required in the California Green Building Standards Code
Section 5.106.4 as that section may be amended from time to time.



 



   (6)   Unmanned Facilities.  No bicycle parking shall be required
for unmanned facilities, such as stand-alone public restrooms in parks or
unmanned cellular antenna facilities.



 



   (b)   Fractions.  When the application of these regulations results
in the requirement of a fractional bicycle space, any fraction up to and
including one-half may be disregarded, and any fraction over one-half shall
be construed as requiring one bicycle parking space.



 



   (c)   Change of Use.  Buildings undergoing a change of use shall
not be required to provide bicycle parking.  This includes adaptive reuse
projects pursuant to Section 12.22 A.26.



 



   (d)   Bicycle Parking Facility Requirements.



 



   (1)   Short-Term Bicycle Parking.  Short-term bicycle parking shall
consist of bicycle racks that support the bicycle frame at two points. 
Racks that support only the wheel of the bicycle are not permissible.



 



   (i)   Racks shall allow for the bicycle frame and at least one wheel
to be locked to the racks.



 



   (ii)   The bicycle rack shall allow for the use of a cable as well
as a U-shaped lock.



 



   (iii)   If bicycles can be locked to each side of the rack, each
side shall be counted toward a required space.



 



   (iv)   Racks shall be securely anchored to a permanent surface.



 



   (v)   If more than 20 short-term bicycle parking spaces are
provided, at least 50 percent shall be covered by a roof or overhang.



 



   (2)   Long-Term Bicycle Parking.  Long-term bicycle parking shall
be secured from the general public and enclosed on all sides and protect
bicycles from inclement weather.



 



   (i)   Acceptable examples of long-term bicycle parking include
bicycle lockers, bicycle rooms, bicycle cages, or commercially operated
attended bicycle facilities.



 



   (ii)   Except in the case of lockers and commercially operated
attended bicycle parking, all long-term parking shall provide a means of
securing the bicycle frame at two points to a securely anchored rack.



 



   (3)   Bicycle Share Stations.



 



   (i)   Bicycle share stations shall comply with all requirements for
such stations established by the Department of Transportation.



 



   (ii)   Bicycle share stations shall be exempt from the requirements
in Sections 12.21 A.16.(d)(1) and (2).



 



   (e)   Design Standards.



 



   (1)   Dimensions.



 



   (i)   Each bicycle parking space shall be a minimum 6 feet (72
inches) in length.



 



   (a)   Vertical Storage.  Long-term bicycle parking may be mounted
so that the bicycle is stored vertically.  Such devices that hold the
bicycle by the wheel shall be designed to support the bicycle without
damaging the wheels.  Vertically installed bicycle parking shall be a
minimum of 4 feet (48 inches) deep and 6 feet (72 inches) in height.



 



   (b)   Stacked Storage.  Long-term or short-term bicycle parking may
be mounted so that bicycles are stored in a stacked, two-tier layout,
provided such parking is primarily an attended bicycle facility where
facility staff parks the bicycles, or such racks provide mechanical
assistance for lifting the bicycle.



 



   (c)   Horizontal Storage.  Where bicycles are stored horizontally,
devices that hold the bicycle upright by wheel contact shall hold at least
180 degrees of wheel arc.



 



   (ii)   Short-term bicycle parking spaces shall be a minimum of 2
feet (24 inches) wide.



 



   (a)   Individual racks installed beside each other that allow
bicycles to be locked to either side of the rack shall be spaced a minimum of
30 inches on center.



 



   (b)   Racks installed parallel to walls shall be a minimum of 30
inches from the wall, except that bicycle parking spaces providing a tray or
channel for insertion of bicycle wheels may be placed a minimum of 20 inches
from the wall, or 14 inches from the wall if such spaces are on the upper
level of a stacked, two-tier rack.



 



   (c)   Bicycle parking spaces arranged in a vertically staggered
layout that permits bicycles to be placed in and removed from each individual
space without interference from bicycles in adjoining spaces may be spaced a
minimum of 16 inches on center.



 



   (iii)   Long-term bicycle parking spaces shall be sized to permit
safe, efficient, and convenient access to each individual bicycle parking
space without interference from bicycles in adjoining spaces, as described
below:



 



   (a)   Individual racks installed beside each other within bicycle
rooms or bicycle cages that allow bicycles to be locked to either side of the
rack shall be spaced a minimum of 30 inches on center.



 



   (b)   Racks installed parallel to walls shall be a minimum of 30
inches from the wall, with the exception that bicycle parking spaces that
provide a tray into which the bicycle wheels may be inserted may be placed a
minimum of 20 inches from the wall, or 14 inches from the wall if such spaces
are on the upper level of a stacked, two-tier rack.



 



   (c)   Triangular lockers with varying widths may be used so long as
the opening is at least 2 feet (24 inches) wide.



 



   (d)   Bicycle parking spaces arranged in a vertically staggered
layout that permits bicycles to be placed in and removed from each individual
space without interference from bicycles in adjoining spaces may be spaced a
minimum of 16 inches on center.



 



   (e)   If more than 20 long-term bicycle parking spaces are provided,
a workspace of 100 square feet shall be provided adjacent to the long-term
bicycle parking to allow bicyclists to maintain their bicycles. However,
where long-term bicycle parking is provided in more than one location, a
single workspace may be provided adjacent to the location with the greatest
number of long-term bicycle parking spaces.



 



   (iv)   For single-tiered bicycle parking, minimum headroom of 7 feet
(84 inches) shall be provided.  For facilities where two tiers of bicycle
parking are installed one above another, minimum headroom of 4 feet (48
inches) shall be provided for each tier.



 



   (v)   Bicycle parking spaces shall be separated from automobile
parking spaces or aisles by a wall, fence, or curb or by at least 5 feet of
open space marked to prohibit parking.



 



   Where bicycle parking is adjacent to accessible automobile parking,
aisles or loading areas provided for accessible spaces may count towards the
open space requirement for bicycle parking so long as they are immediately
adjacent to the bicycle parking.



 



   (2)   Siting Requirements.



 



   (i)   Location.  Required bicycle parking shall be provided on the
same lot as the use for which it is intended to serve, or in a parking
facility serving that use.  Bicycle parking shall be located so as to allow
bicyclists safe and convenient access to and from the site.  Bicyclists
shall not be required to rely on stairways or escalators for access or to
share access with motor vehicles.  Elevators providing access for bicyclists
shall be sized to accommodate standard adult bicycle dimensions with both
wheels on the floor (at least 6 feet by 2 feet).



 



   (ii)   Unreasonable Rules Prohibited.  A building, lot, or garage
shall not establish unreasonable rules that interfere with the ability of
bicyclists to safely and conveniently access bicycle parking.  Such rules
include shorter operating hours than those of the building or those of the
automobile parking, prohibitions on walking of bicycles in pedestrian areas
that provide access to bicycle parking, and prohibitions on bicycles in
elevators where elevators are used to provide access to bicycle parking. 
The provisions of this section do not prohibit property owners from requiring
bicycles to be walked in pedestrian-only areas.



 



   (iii)   Short-Term Bicycle Parking.  Short-term bicycle parking
shall be located so as to provide safe and convenient access to visitors. 
For new construction, at least 50 percent of short-term bicycle parking shall
be located outside buildings; however, no more than eight short-term bicycle
parking spaces per 100 linear feet of street frontage shall be required to be
outside.  The remaining required short-term bicycle parking spaces may be
provided inside the building on the ground floor, or inside the parking
garage on the ground floor with a direct access to a public street.



 



   (a)   For new developments, short-term bicycle parking shall be
located to maximize visibility from a pedestrian entrance.  For new or
existing buildings, where short-term bicycle parking is located within
buildings or parking garages, signage is required at each building entrance
as per Section 12.21 A.16.(d)(4).



 



   (b)   Short-term bicycle parking spaces shall be located no farther
than 100 feet of walking distance from a pedestrian entrance.



 



   (c)   For buildings with more than one pedestrian entrance,
short-term bicycle parking shall be distributed in approximately equal
proportions among all pedestrian entrances.  In buildings with three or more
pedestrian entrances, no more than 50 percent of all short-term bicycle
parking spaces shall be assigned to a single pedestrian entrance.



 



   (iv)   Long-Term Bicycle Parking.  Long-term bicycle parking spaces
shall be provided in one of the following locations, or in a combination
thereof:



 



   (a)   On the ground floor within 100 feet of the major entrance to
the lobby.  There shall be safe and convenient access between the public
right-of-way, the bicycle parking space, and the lobby area.



 



   (b)   In the off-street automobile parking area, subject to the
following limitations:



 




   (1)   Long-term bicycle parking inside a parking garage shall be no
more than 200 feet from a pedestrian entrance to the main building, and
located so as to provide reasonably convenient access from the bicycle
parking to the nearest walkway, ramp, or elevator providing access to the
building.




 




   (2)   Long-term bicycle parking inside a parking garage shall be
located within the space available on the building's pedestrian entry level,
after required handicapped-accessible parking stalls and other required
elements have been provided.  Remaining long-term bicycle parking may be
provided on other levels of the parking garage in accordance with the
provisions of this Subparagraph (iv).




 



   (c)   One level above or below the ground floor, within 100 feet of
the elevator, ramp, walkway, or other building entrance on that story. In
such cases, elevator or ramp access to the building shall be provided.



 



   (d)   Residential long-term bicycle parking may be provided in
common storage facilities on residential floors in accordance with Sections
12.21 A16.(d) and (e).  If residential long-term bicycle parking is provided
on residential floors, the amount of bicycle parking on each floor shall be
equal to or greater than 50 percent of the number of dwelling units on the
same floor.



 



   (v)   Bicycle Share Station Docks.  Bicycle share station docks
counted toward the requirements for short-term bicycle parking spaces as
permitted in Section 12.21 A.16.(f)(3) shall conform to Sections 12.21
A.16.(e)(2)(i) and (e)(2)(iii)(a) and (b).



 



   (vi)   Combination of Uses.  Where there is a combination of uses
on a lot, long-term bicycle parking may be provided in one or more bicycle
parking facilities within 200 feet of each use.



 



   (vii)   Multiple Buildings.  For a development site with multiple
buildings, required bicycle parking may be sited in one or more bicycle
parking facilities within 200 feet of each building.



 



   (viii)   Attended Bicycle Parking Service.  Where short-term or
long-term bicycle parking is provided by means of an Attended Bicycle Parking
Service, the pick-up and drop-off location shall either comply with the
siting requirements of this Subparagraph (2) above or be co-located with any
valet automobile parking pick-up or drop-off location provided on the same
site for the subject use.  Where such a facility is provided, the bicycle
storage area need not comply with the siting requirements of this
Subparagraph (2) above.  In addition, the pick-up and drop-off location for
an Attended Bicycle Parking Service need not comply with the siting
requirements for combinations of uses or multiple buildings.



 



   If some or all required bicycle parking spaces are provided by means of
an attended bicycle parking service, the service shall be available to
building occupants at all times during the hours the building is in
operation.  If, for any reason, an Attended Bicycle Parking Service is
discontinued, the associated land uses may no longer count the attended
bicycle parking service toward the required number of bicycle parking spaces
and shall be required to provide a number of bicycle parking spaces
equivalent to the number formerly provided by the attended bicycle parking
service.



 



   (3)   Lighting.  Adequate lighting shall be provided to ensure safe
access to bicycle parking facilities in accordance with Section 12.21 A.5.(k).



 



   (4)   Signage.  Where bicycle parking is not clearly visible from
the street, legible reflectorized signs shall be permanently posted at the
street entrances to each site indicating the availability and location of
bicycle parking within the site.  All signs must comply with Section 14.4.7
of this Code.



 



   (f)   Additional Requirements and Allowances.



 



   (1)   Bicycle Parking in the Public Right-of-Way.



 



   (i)   Short-term bicycle parking spaces located immediately in front
of a site within the public right-of-way may be counted towards the
short-term bicycle parking requirements of said site.



 



   (ii)   Business operators or property owners may install and
maintain their own racks within the public right-of-way unless a City owned
rack already exists.



 



   (a)   Business operators or property owners are responsible for
applying for a permit with the Bureau of Engineering to install short-term
bicycle parking within the public right-of-way.  A Bureau of Engineering
permit may be issued only after the business operator or property owner
receives issuance of plan approval or a permit by the Department of
Transportation pursuant to LAMC Section 85.04.



 



   (b)   All bicycle parking installed in this manner shall meet the
rules and regulations set out by the Bureau of Engineering Standard Plan
S-671.



 



   (c)   Business operators or property owners who choose to install
bicycle parking within the public right-of-way are responsible for
maintaining the racks according to the standards set forth in a Covenant
Maintenance Agreement with the Department of Transportation.



 



   (2)   Bicycle Corrals.



 



   (i)   City-funded Bicycle Corrals.  Any site located within 500
feet of a City funded bicycle corral may count up to four bicycle parking
spaces towards their required short-term bicycle parking spaces.



 



   (ii)   Bicycle Corral Parking Incentive Program.  Business
operators or property owners may submit an application to the Department of
Transportation to install and maintain their own bicycle corrals immediately
in front of their property in the public right-of-way.



 



   (a)   Businesses or property owners who do so may count all the
bicycle parking within the bicycle corral towards their required number of
short-term bicycle parking spaces.  In such cases, short-term bicycle
parking installed in such a manner shall not be counted towards the bicycle
parking requirements of surrounding businesses.



 



   (b)   Business operators or property owners shall pay the
construction and maintenance costs of building said bicycle corrals.



 



   (c)   Multiple businesses or property owners may submit an
application to the Department of Transportation's Bicycle Program as a group
and split the costs to construct and maintain the corral.



 




   (1)   In such cases, a single business shall be responsible for
assuming the maintenance responsibilities detailed in a Covenant Maintenance
Agreement as outlined below.




 




   (2)   The business responsible for maintaining the bicycle corral
may count the full amount of bicycle parking in the corral towards its
short-term bicycle parking requirements.




 




   (3)   All other businesses may count up to half of the bicycle
parking spaces in the corral towards their required short-term bicycle
parking spaces so long as they provide a financial contribution.




 



   (d)   Business operators or property owners shall be responsible for
applying for a permit with the Bureau of Engineering to install bicycle
corrals within the public right-of-way.



 



   (e)   Business operators or property owners who choose to install
bicycle corrals within the public right-of-way shall be responsible for
maintaining the racks according to the standards set forth in a Covenant
Maintenance Agreement with the Department of Transportation.



 



   (f)   If, for any reason, the responsibility for maintaining a
bicycle corral is returned to the City of Los Angeles, it shall be considered
a City-funded bicycle corral.



 



   (iii)   If, for any reason, the City determines that a bicycle
corral must be removed, business owners shall no longer be able to count the
spaces removed toward their required bicycle parking.  In such cases, said
businesses shall be required to provide any bicycle spaces lost in the
removal of the corral.  Failure to comply may result in the revocation of a
business's Certificate of Occupancy and a fine for Code violation.



 



   (3)   Bicycle Share Stations.



 



   (i)   Business operators or property owners may allow a bicycle
share service provider to install one or more bicycle share stations on their
property, provided that such bicycle share station(s) shall be part of a
bicycle share system approved by the Department of Transportation and comply
with all location criteria established by the Department of Transportation
for bicycle share stations.



 



   (ii)   Any site within 500 feet of a bicycle share station may count
up to four bicycle share docks toward the required number of short-term
bicycle parking spaces for a building or buildings on the same lot.  In all
cases, the number of bicycle share docks counted toward the required number
of short-term bicycle parking spaces shall not exceed 10 percent of the total
number of short-term bicycle parking spaces required for the subject site.



 



   (iii)   Where bicycle share docks are counted toward the required
number of short-term bicycle parking spaces, residential and non-residential
uses may replace a percentage of the required automobile parking spaces with
bicycle share docks in a manner consistent with the limitations and
replacement ratio established in Section 12.21 A.4.



 



   (iv)   If, for any reason, bicycle share docks are removed, the
associated land uses may no longer count the docks removed toward required
bicycle parking and shall be required to replace the number of docks formerly
counted toward required bicycle parking with an equivalent number of bicycle
parking spaces.



 



   (4)   Showers and Personal Lockers.  Showers and personal lockers
shall be provided as required per LAMC Section 91.6307.  Personal lockers
shall only be required for long-term bicycle parking in nonresidential
uses.  If showers and personal lockers are provided, such showers and
personal lockers shall remain available for the use of building occupants,
including residents and/or employees, arriving by bicycle.



 



   (g)   Exceptions.  The provisions of this section do not apply to
any of the following projects, which shall comply with the regulations as of
March 13, 2013, as applicable:



 



   (1)   Any entitlement application filed and accepted as complete
prior to March 13, 2013 with the exception of CEQA review as determined by
the Department of City Planning.



 



   (2)   Any project for which the City has approved an entitlement
application as of March 13, 2013, but that has not yet submitted plans and
appropriate fees to the Department of Building and Safety for plan check, as
determined by the Department of City Planning.



 



   (h)   Alternative Compliance – Director's Authority.  The
Director of Planning or the Director's designee shall have initial
decision-making authority to approve an alternative to the design standards
specified in Section 12.21 A.16.(e)(1) or to the siting requirements
specified in Section 12.21 A.16.(e)(2)(iii) and (iv) with an appeal to the
Area Planning Commission in accordance with the procedures set forth in
Section 11.5.7 C.4. - 6. of this Code.  An applicant may request such
approval by submitting an application and paying a filing fee equivalent to
that established for a "Miscellaneous Plan Approval".  This fee is set forth
in Section 19.01 of this Code.



 



   (1)   Findings.  The Director's determination shall include written
findings in support of the decision.  In order to grant approval of the
alternative design or siting, the Director must find that the location,
dimensions, position, security, and spacing allow for safe and reasonably
accessible and convenient short or long-term storage of bicycles for the
anticipated users of the bicycle parking, and that the proposed design or
siting meets the needs of bicyclists at least as effectively as the
requirements of  Section 12.21 A.16.(e)(1).



 



   17.   One-Family Dwellings, Accessory Buildings and Additions. 
Hillside Regulations.  Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Code to
the contrary, the following regulations shall apply to any Major Remodel -
Hillside, or construction of or addition to any One-Family Dwelling or
Accessory Building on a Lot in the A1, A2 or RD Zones which is located in
whole or in part in a Hillside Area as defined in Section 12.03 of this
Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,624, Eff. 5/9/11.)



 



   (a)   Front Yards.



 



   (1)   For any lot that fronts on a Substandard Hillside Limited
Street, there shall be a minimum front yard of at least five feet.  For lots
having a zoning classification that contains a provision calling for
observance of the prevailing setback, the prevailing setback regulations
shall apply, so long as a front yard of no less than five feet is provided. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 174,652, Eff. 7/27/02.)



 



   (2)   For any lot which fronts on a Standard Hillside Limited
Street, the front yard shall be as otherwise required by this Code.



 



   (3)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Code to the
contrary, open unenclosed stairways, porches, platforms and landing places
not covered by a roof or canopy shall not project or extend into the front
yard.  Balconies with 10 feet of vertical clearance beneath them may project
or extend no more than 30 inches into a front yard.  (Added by Ord. No.
168,728, Eff. 5/30/93.)



 



   (b)   Side Yards.



 



   (1)   For any main building, each side yard shall be not less than
five feet, unless the lot is less than 40 feet in width, then each side yard
shall be not less than four feet.



 



   (2)   For any main Building on a Lot in the RD Zones, the above
required Side Yard or the Side Yard required by the zone in which the Lot is
located, whichever requirement is greater, shall be increased one foot for
each increment of ten feet or fraction thereof above the first 18 feet of
height of the main Building.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,624, Eff. 5/9/11.)



 



   (c)   Height.



 



   (1)   On any lot where the slope of the lot measured from the lowest
point of elevation of the lot to the highest point is 66 percent or less, no
building or structure shall exceed 36 feet in height as measured from grade.



 



   (2)   On any lot which has a slope of greater than 66 percent as
measured from the lowest point of elevation of the lot to the highest point,
no building or structure shall exceed 45 feet in height as measured from
grade.



 



   EXCEPTION:  Notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraph (2) above to
the contrary, where the slope of the lot as measured from the highest point
of the lot within five horizontal feet of an exterior wall of the main
building to the lowest point of the lot within five horizontal feet of an
exterior wall of the main building is less than 66 percent, then no portion
of the main building shall exceed 36 feet in height.



 



   (3)   Roof structures may exceed the otherwise allowable height
limit, provided the structures conform to the provisions of Section 12.21.1
B.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)



 



   (i)   Skylights shall not exceed the otherwise allowable height
limit by more than 30 inches, nor shall skylights which exceed the otherwise
allowable height cover more than 33 1/3 percent of the roof area upon which
the skylight is constructed.



 



   (ii)   Roof structures housing stairways shall not exceed the
otherwise allowable height limit by more than five feet, nor shall they be
greater than 36 square feet in area.



 



   (4)   For any lot, where the elevation of the ground at a point 50
feet from the front lot line and midway between the side lot lines is 33 feet
or more higher than the lowest point of the front lot line, no portion of a
building or structure within 20 feet of the front lot line shall exceed 24
feet in height.  The 24 foot maximum building and structure height shall be
measured from the elevation at the centerline or midpoint of the street on
which the lot fronts.



 



   (5)   For the purpose of measuring height pursuant to this
subdivision, grade shall be defined as the elevation of the finished or
natural surface of the ground, whichever is lower, or the finished surface of
the ground established in conformance with a grading plan approved pursuant
to a recorded tract or parcel map action.  Retaining walls shall not raise
the effective elevation of grade for purposes of measuring height of a
building or structure.



 



   (d)   Fire Protection.



 



   (1)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Code to the
contrary, any new construction of a one-family dwelling or detached accessory
building, shall be protected throughout with an approved automatic fire
sprinkler system, in compliance with the Los Angeles Plumbing Code.



 



   (2)   An approved automatic fire sprinkler system in compliance with
the Los Angeles Plumbing Code shall be installed:



 



   (i)   whenever an addition to an existing one-family dwelling or
accessory building increases the floor area by 50 percent or more of the area
of the existing dwelling or building; or



 



   (ii)   whenever the aggregate value of Major Remodels within a
one-year period exceeds 50 percent of the replacement cost of the dwelling or
accessory building; and the dwelling or accessory building is on a lot
located on a Substandard Hillside Limited Street and located either more than
two miles from a fire station housing a Los Angeles City Fire Department
Truck Company or more than one and one-half miles from a fire station housing
a Los Angeles Fire Department Engine Company.  (Amended by Ord. No. 168,728,
Eff. 5/30/93.)



 



   (3)   The sprinkler system required in (i) and (ii) above shall be
sufficient to cover the entire dwelling or building, unless otherwise
determined by the Department of Building and Safety, and shall be installed
in compliance with all applicable codes.



 



   (4)   The provisions of Paragraphs (i) and (ii) above shall not
apply to accessory structures such as gazebos, pergolas, or storage sheds
provided these structures are not supported by or attached to any portion of
a dwelling or accessory building and do not exceed 200 square feet in floor
area.



 



   (e)   Street Access.  (Amended by Ord. No. 174,652, Eff. 7/27/02.)



 



   (1)   For any new construction of, or addition to, a one-family
dwelling on a lot fronting on a Substandard Hillside Limited Street, no
building permit or grading permit shall be issued unless at least one-half of
the width of the street(s) has been dedicated for the full width of the
frontage of the lot to Standard Hillside Limited Street dimensions or to a
lesser width as determined by the City Engineer.  Upon payment of the fee
imposed pursuant to the provisions of Section 12.37 F.3., an applicant may
seek relief from this dedication requirement pursuant to the provisions of
Section 12.37 I.  (Last Sentence Amended by Ord. No. 184,718, Eff. 3/4/17.)



 



   (2)   For any new construction of, or addition to, a one-family
dwelling on a lot fronting on a Substandard Hillside Limited Street that is
improved with a roadway width of less than 20 feet, no building permit or
grading permit shall be issued unless the construction or addition has been
approved pursuant to Section 12.24 X.21.



 



   (3)   For any new construction of, or addition to, a one-family
dwelling on a lot that does not have a vehicular access route from a street
improved with a minimum 20 foot wide continuous paved roadway from the
driveway apron that provides access to the main residence to the boundary of
the Hillside Area, no building permit or grading permit shall be issued
unless the construction or addition meets the requirements of this
Subdivision or has been approved pursuant to Section 12.24 X.21.



 



   (f)   Lot Coverage.



 



   (1)   Buildings and structures extending more than six feet above
natural ground level shall cover no more than 40 percent of the area of a lot.



 



   (2)   Notwithstanding (1) above, for a lot which is substandard as
to width (less than 50 feet) and as to area (less than 5,000 square feet),
buildings and structures shall cover no more than 45 percent of the area of a
lot.



 



   (g)   Sewer Connection.  No building permit shall be issued for the
construction of any new one-family dwelling on a lot located 200 feet or less
from a sewer mainline unless a sewer connection is provided to the
satisfaction of the City Engineer.



 



   (h)   Off-Street Parking Requirements.  (Amended by Ord No.
169,961, Eff. 8/29/94.)  No building or grading permit shall be issued for
the construction of any one-family dwelling, accessory building, Major
Remodel-Hillside, or addition thereto located on a lot which fronts on a
Substandard Hillside Limited Street, unless the following requirements are
met.



 



   In addition to the off-street automobile parking spaces required by
Section 12.21 A.4.(a), the following off-street parking spaces shall be
provided:



 



   (1)   For a main building and any accessory building, excluding
floor area devoted to required parking, which exceed a combined floor area of
2,400 square feet, there shall be one additional parking space provided for
each additional increment of 1,000 square feet or fraction thereof of floor
area for a maximum of five total on-site spaces.



 



   (2)   Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 12.21 C.1.(g) of
this Code to the contrary, the additional parking spaces required by this
paragraph may be uncovered and in tandem, and may be located within the
required 5-foot front yard.



 



   (3)   If the requirements in this paragraph require the grading of
1,000 cubic yards or more of earth, then no building or grading permit shall
be issued for a new one-family dwelling, accessory building, Major
Remodel-Hillside, or addition to the above on a lot which fronts on a
Substandard Hillside Limited Street unless the Zoning Administrator has
issued an approval pursuant to Section 12.24 X.21.  (Amended by Ord. No.
173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)



 



   (i)   Exceptions.  (Amended by Ord No. 169,961, Eff. 8/29/94.) 
The provisions of this Subdivision 17. shall not apply to:



 



   (1)   One-family dwellings, accessory buildings and additions
thereto within a subdivision for which a tentative or final tract map was
approved by the City of Los Angeles after February 1, 1985, and is still
valid, provided that the map resulted in the establishment of covenants,
conditions and restrictions governing building height, yards, open space or
lot coverage, and provided, further, that such covenants, conditions and
restrictions were recorded on or after February 1, 1985.



 



   (2)   (Amended by Ord. No. 174,652, Eff. 7/27/02.)  Any
construction on a lot with a vehicular access from a street improved with a
minimum 28 foot wide continuous paved roadway within the Hillside Area,
provided:



 



   (i)   the roadway begins at the driveway apron which provides access
to the main residence and ends where the roadway intersects a designated
collector street, or a secondary or major highway where the collector, major
or secondary highway roadway also has a minimum continuous paved roadway
width of 28 feet from the apron to the edge of the Hillside Area boundaries.



 



   (ii)   the area within the vehicular access does not contain any
encroachment which would prohibit the passage of emergency vehicles.



 



   (3)   Any additions made after September 14, 1992, to a one-family
dwelling existing prior to that date, provided:



 



   (a)   the total cumulative floor area of all such additions does not
exceed 750 square feet (excluded from calculations of this 750 square foot
limitation is floor area devoted to required parking); and



 



   (b)   the resulting building does not exceed the height of the
original building or the height permitted in Paragraph (c) of this
subdivision, whichever is greater; and



 



   (c)   at least two off-street parking spaces are provided.



 



   (4)   Any remodeling of a main building on a lot in the Hillside
Area, as defined in Section 12.03, which does not add square footage and for
which the aggregate value of all of the alterations within a one-year period
does not exceed 50 percent of the replacement cost of the main building.



 



   (5)   Where architectural and structural plans sufficient for a
complete plan check for a building permit for a building or structure were
accepted by the Department of Building and Safety and for which a plan check
fee was collected on or before the effective date of this subdivision, and
for which no subsequent changes are made to those plans which increase the
height nor reduce front or side yards. However, any building permit shall
become invalid if construction pursuant to the permit is not commenced within
18 months of the date the plan check fee was collected.  (Added by Ord. No.
174,652, Eff. 7/27/02.)



 



   18.   Recycling Centers And Facilities.  (Added by Ord. No.
171,687, Eff. 8/19/97.)



 



   (a)   Any educational institution, church, league or charitable
institution, or any organization described in Section 501(c)(3) or (4) of the
Internal Revenue Code shall be allowed to collect cans, bottles, papers, and
plastic on its grounds as an accessory use or on City property, if approved
by the City department with jurisdiction over that property, in all zones
provided that:



 



   (1)   the area for depositing Recyclable Materials does not exceed
200 square feet and shall be a minimum of 10 feet from all buildings, and 150
feet from the property line of any adjoining property in an A or R Zone,
except for areas for the collection of newspapers only;



 



   (2)   all Recycling Receptacles are covered, durable, waterproof,
rustproof, and of incombustible construction;



 



   (3)   notwithstanding other provisions of this Code, Recycling
Receptacles are enclosed by an eight-foot chain link fence with wooden slats,
concrete block or similar construction (enclosure), which shall be properly
maintained at all times;



 



   (4)   either the Recycling Receptacle or the enclosure is clearly
identified with the business name, address, telephone number, hours of
operation and notice that no material is to be left outside the enclosure;



 



   (5)   each Recycling Receptacle clearly indicates the type of
material to be deposited;



 



   (6)   on a daily basis the area for depositing Recyclable Materials
is kept free of litter, debris, spillage, bugs, rodents, odors, and other
similar undesirable hazards;



 



   (7)   the hours of operation are Monday through Saturday from 8 a.m.
to 4 p.m., and Sunday from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., except when the collection site
is further than 500 feet from any A or R Zone, then the permitted hours of
operation are seven days a week from dawn until dusk.



 



   (8)   the enclosure is kept secure from unauthorized entry by a
locking gate or guard maintaining security for the main building;



 



   (9)   the enclosure does not diminish the required number of parking
spaces or impair traffic flow; and



 



   (10)   newspapers are emptied from Recycling Receptacles when full
or every week, whichever occurs first and all other materials are emptied
from Recycling Receptacles when full or every 72 hours, whichever occurs
first.



 



   (11)   The baling of newspapers is permitted; however can or bottle
crushing is not permitted.



 



   (12)   An administrative fine of $250.00 may be collected by the
Department of Building and Safety pursuant to the procedures set forth in
Paragraph (g) of this subdivision for any violation of the provisions of this
subparagraph.



 



   (b)   Any educational institution, church, league, or charitable
institution, or any organization described in Section 501(c)(3) or (4) of the
Internal Revenue Code shall be permitted the use of Mobile Recycling Centers
as defined in Section 12.03 of this Code, for organized drives for the
collection of cans, bottles, papers, and plastic in all zones provided that:



 



   (1)   collections may be made on the grounds of the organization
sponsoring the collection drive unless otherwise authorized by the Department
of Building and Safety, or on a continuous basis at a recycling center
certified by the California Department of Conservation, Recycling Division;



 



   (2)   the collection of materials shall not be conducted on the site
of an existing residential structure;



 



   (3)   not more than three drives shall be conducted on the same site
within a 12- month period and the duration of any drive shall not exceed 30
days.  No drive shall be conducted within a 90-day period following a prior
drive on the same site or within 1,000 feet of the same site;



 



   (4)   a permit for which no fee shall be charged must be obtained
from the Board of Police Commissioners for the purpose of verifying proper
time limitations prior to initiation of any drive conducted pursuant to this
subdivision;  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,283, Eff. 6/26/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)



 



   (5)   the Mobile Recycling Center shall be a minimum of 10 feet from
all buildings; and



 



   (6)   the Mobile Recycling Center shall be maintained such that it
is secured from unauthorized entry.



 



   (7)   An administrative fine of $250.00 may be collected by the
Department of Building and Safety pursuant to the procedures set forth in
Paragraph (g) of this subdivision for any violation of the provisions of this
paragraph.



 



   (c)   Recycling Collection or Buyback Centers, including reverse
vending machines and Mobile Recycling Centers, as defined in Section 12.03 of
this Code, shall be permitted in conjunction with grocery markets in the C1
or any less restrictive zone, or in the P or PB Zone in conjunction with a
grocery market on the same site in a C1 or less restrictive zone.



 



   (1)   All Recycling Collection or Buyback Centers established
pursuant to this paragraph must be in conjunction with a grocery market on
the same site.



 



   (2)   For the purposes of this paragraph, the term “grocery
market” shall mean a retail business, of which greater than one half of the
floor area is devoted to the sale of food items for consumption or use off
the premises, excluding alcoholic beverages.



 



   (3)   No portion of the recycling operation may be closer than 100'
to any A or R zone.  (Added by Ord. No. 176,840, Eff. 9/4/05.)



 



   (4)   The area for depositing Recyclable Materials does not exceed a
total of 600 square feet of the lot area.  (Added by Ord. No. 176,840, Eff.
9/4/05.)



 



   (5)   The requirements of Paragraph (d)(3), and (d)(5) through (19)
of this Subdivision must be complied with at all times except that no
reduction of any kind in required parking spaces is allowed.  (Added by Ord.
No. 176,840, Eff. 9/4/05.)



 



   (d)   The depositing of glass, cans, papers, plastic, beverage
containers, and similar Recyclable Materials, Recycling Collection or Buyback
Centers, and Mobile Recycling Centers, shall be permitted in the M2 and M3
Zones without obtaining a conditional use permit pursuant to Section
12.24U22(b) of this Code, provided that all of the following conditions are
met: (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)



 



   (1)   the lot upon which the Recycling Collection or Buyback Center
is located is not within 1,000 feet of any A, R, C, P, PB, MR, or M1 Zone or
use;



 



   (2)   the area for depositing Recyclable Materials does not exceed a
total of 1,000 square feet;



 



   (3)   the area for depositing Recyclable Materials shall be a
minimum of 10 feet from all property lines, except for Reverse Vending
Machines and Reverse Vending Machine Commodity Storage Bins located 24 inches
or less from the exterior wall of a building;



 



   (4)   the entire site shall be enclosed by a 6-foot high concrete
block or masonry wall.  In addition, if the facility is located in any C, P
or PB Zone, a five-foot landscaped buffer, approved by the City Planning
Department as provided in Section 12.21A6(i) of this Code, shall be
maintained along all street frontages;



 



   (5)   all Recycling Receptacles shall be covered, durable,
waterproof, rustproof, of incombustible construction, and of sufficient
capacity to accommodate the materials collected;



 



   (6)   except for Reverse Vending Machine Commodity Storage Bins,
either the Recycling Receptacle or the enclosure is clearly identified with
the operator’s name, address, telephone number, hours of operation, and a
notice that no material shall be left outside the enclosure, and each
Recycling Receptacle must clearly indicate the type of material to be
deposited.



 



   (7)   on a daily basis the site is kept free of litter, debris,
spillage, bugs, rodents, odors, and other similar undesirable hazards;



 



   (8)   Recyclable Materials, other than Recyclable Materials
contained in reverse vending machine commodity storage bins, are emptied from
Recycling Receptacles when full or every week, whichever occurs first;



 



   (9)   all recycled goods shall be placed or stored in Recycling
Receptacles and not be left out on the site by the end of the business day;



 



   (10)   paper products and other lightweight materials shall be
immediately placed into covered Recycling Receptacles when they are dropped
off;



 



   (11)   the hours of operation shall not exceed Monday through Friday
from 7 a.m. to 8 p.m., Saturday from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m., and Sunday from 10
a.m. to 6 p.m., except for Reverse Vending Machines that are located within
24 inches of the exterior wall of a building, which may operate from 7 a.m.
to 10 p.m., seven days a week;



 



   (12)   all Recycling Receptacles and containers shall be kept secure
from unauthorized entry to prevent scavenging and theft of recyclable
materials;



 



   (13)   the area for depositing Recyclable Materials and/or enclosure
shall not impair traffic flow nor diminish the required parking spaces except
that up to 10 percent of the required parking spaces may be used as part of
the area utilized for Recyclable Materials; provided, however, that if the
area for depositing Recyclable Materials is abandoned, then the parking
spaces shall be reestablished;



 



   (14)   any activity involving baling and hand sorting of Recyclable
Materials, as well as automated can conveyor/magnetic or mechanical
separators, and crushers for can, glass, or plastic bottles, is conducted in
compliance with Section 12.19A4(b)(1) of this Code.



 



   (15)   at least one trash receptacle shall be provided within a
recycling site;



 



   (16)   the area for collection of Recyclable Materials, and all
driveways, parking areas, storage areas, and loading zones shall be paved and
maintained in good condition;



 



   (17)   a source of running water shall be maintained on the site; and



 



   (18)   no Recycling Center Operator shall permit loitering, camping,
public begging, consumption of alcoholic beverages, use of illegal narcotics,
or any other criminal activity on any premises over which he has control.



 



   (19)   An administrative fine of $250.00 may be collected by the
Department of Building and Safety pursuant to the procedures set forth in
Paragraph (g) of this subdivision for any violation of the provisions of this
paragraph.



 



   (e)   Recycling Materials Sorting Facilities shall be permitted in
all M and MR Zones without obtaining a conditional use permit pursuant to
Section 12.24U22(d), provided that all of the following conditions are met: 
(Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)



 



   (1)   the facility is located at least 1,000 feet from any A, R, C,
P, or PB Zone or use;



 



   (2)   the facility shall be operated by a Recycling Center Operator
or Junk Dealer;



 



   (3)   notwithstanding any other provisions of the Code, no
processing of Recyclable Materials, shall be permitted at the facility;



 



   (4)   Recyclable Materials to be sorted shall be limited to paper,
cardboard, glass, metal, plastic and other items that are deemed appropriate
by the Department of Building and Safety, Bureau of Sanitation, and Fire
Department;



 



   (5)   the hours of operation shall be limited to 7 a.m. to 8 p.m.,
seven days a week, if the facility is located within 1,000 feet of an A or R
Zone or any residential use.  Otherwise, operation may be 24 hours a day. 
All operations must comply with Section 111.03 of this Code. The facility and
all related activities shall be administered by on-site personnel during the
hours the center is open;



 



   (6)   no depositing of Recyclable Materials shall be permitted
during hours the center is not open;



 



   (7)   the facility shall be clearly identified with the operator’s
name, address, telephone number, hours of operation and a notice stating that
no material shall be left outside the recycling center enclosure;



 



   (8)   Recycling Receptacles shall be provided that are durable,
waterproof, rustproof and of incombustible construction and of a capacity
which are sufficient to accommodate the materials collected;



 



   (9)   automated sorting and separating machinery shall be permitted,
provided that the machinery is conducted in compliance with Section
12.19A4(b)(1) of this Code;



 



   (10)   adequate parking, loading, and drive through space to
accommodate customers, shall be provided as required in Section 12.19A4(b)(4)
of this Code;



 



   (11)   the facility shall be maintained in a clean, safe and
sanitary condition on a daily basis;



 



   (12)   a source of running water shall be maintained on the site;



 



   (13)   the facility shall utilize some type of dust mitigation
and/or wind mitigation measures to prevent blowing debris;



 



   (14)   the facility shall comply with the other limitations as set
forth in Section 12.19A4(b) of this Code;



 



   (15)   the facility shall be surrounded by a 6-foot high concrete
block wall and a 5-foot landscaped buffer, approved by the City Planning
Department as provided in Section 12.21A6(i) of this Code, adjoining all
street frontages; and



 



   (16)   no Recycling Center Operator shall permit loitering, camping,
public begging, consumption of alcoholic beverages, use of illegal narcotics,
or any other criminal activity on any premises over which he has control.



 



   (17)   An administrative fine of $250.00 may be collected by the
Department of Building and Safety pursuant to the procedures set forth in
Paragraph (g) of this subdivision for any violation of the provisions of this
paragraph.



 



   (f)   Recycling Materials Processing Facilities shall be permitted
in the M2 and M3 Zones without obtaining a conditional use permit pursuant to
Section 12.24U22(c) of this Code, provided that all of the following
conditions are met: (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)



 



   (1)   the facility shall be located at least 1,000 feet from any A,
R, C, P, PB, MR, or M1 Zone or use;



 



   (2)   the facility shall be operated by a Recycling Center Operator
or Junk Dealer;



 



   (3)   notwithstanding any other provisions of the Code, Recyclable
Materials collected and processed on the site shall be limited to paper,
cardboard, glass, metal, plastic and other items that are deemed appropriate
by the Department of Building and Safety, Bureau of Sanitation, and Fire
Department;



 



   (4)   hours of operation shall be limited to 7 a.m. to 8 p.m., seven
days a week, if the facility is located within 1,000 feet of an A or R Zone
or any residential use.  Otherwise, operation may be 24 hours a day.  All
operations must comply with Section 111.03 of this Code. The facility and all
related activities shall be administered by on-site personnel during the
hours the center is open;



 



   (5)   no depositing of Recyclable Materials shall be permitted
during hours the center is not open;



 



   (6)   the facility shall be clearly identified with the operator’s
name, address, telephone number, hours of operation and a notice stating that
no material shall be left outside the recycling center enclosure;



 



   (7)   if Recycling Receptacles are used for storage of materials on
site, they shall be durable, waterproof, rustproof, and of incombustible
construction;



 



   (8)   processing machinery, such as weighing scales and crushing and
separating machines shall be permitted, provided that the machinery is
conducted in compliance with Section 12.19A4(b)(1) of this Code;



 



   (9)   the facility shall provide adequate parking, loading, and
drive through space to accommodate customers, as required in Section
12.19A4(b)(4) of this Code;



 



   (10)   the facility shall be maintained in a clean, safe and
sanitary condition on a daily basis;



 



   (11)   a source of running water shall be maintained on the site;



 



   (12)   the facility shall utilize some type of dust mitigation
and/or wind mitigation measures to prevent blowing debris;



 



   (13)   the facility shall comply with the other limitations as set
forth in Section 12.19A4(b) of this Code;



 



   (14)   the facility shall be surrounded by a 6-foot high concrete
block wall and a 5-foot landscaped buffer, approved by the City Planning
Department as provided in Section 12.21A6(i) of this Code, adjoining all
street frontages; and



 



   (15)   no Recycling Center Operator shall permit loitering, camping,
public begging, consumption of alcoholic beverages, use of illegal narcotics,
or any other criminal activity on any premises over which he has control.



 



   (16)   An administrative fine of $250.00 may be collected by the
Department of Building and Safety pursuant to the procedures set forth in
Paragraph (g) of this subdivision for any violation of the provisions of this
paragraph.



 



   (g)   An administrative fine of $250.00 may be collected by the
Department of Building and Safety for any violation of the provisions of this
subdivision pursuant to the following provisions.



 



   (1)   Definitions.  As used in this subparagraph the term
“Superintendent” means the Superintendent of the Department of Building
and Safety.  The term “Department” means the Department of Building and
Safety.



 



   (2)   Notice to Comply.  For any use found to be in violation of
Section 12.21A18, the Superintendent shall send a Notice to Comply to the
owner of the property and the operator of the use.  The Notice to Comply
shall clearly state the following:



 



   (i)   The violation must be corrected by a Compliance Date specified
in the Notice, which date shall be no more than 15 days from the date the
Notice is mailed.



 



   (ii)   Failure to correct the violation on or before the Compliance
Date may result in the imposition of an administrative fine in the amount of
$250.00.



 



   (iii)   Repeated violations can result in nuisance abatement
procedures under the provisions of the Code.



 



   (3)   Reinspection.  The Superintendent shall reinspect a property
for which a Notice to Comply was issued pursuant to this paragraph subsequent
to the Compliance Date.



 



   (4)   Failure to Correct Violation.  If any violation specified in
the Notice to Comply is not corrected prior to the Compliance Date as
specified in the Notice to Comply, an administrative fine of $250.00 may be
collected by the Department.



 



   If the Department determines that a fine is due, then it shall notify
the person cited by United States mail in a sealed envelope, with postage
paid, addressed to the last known address of the person cited as the address
appears in the last equalized assessment roll.  Service of the notice shall
be deemed to have been completed at the time of deposit with the United
States Postal Service.



 



   The person cited shall remit the fine to the Department within 30 days
after the date of mailing the notice.  If the person cited fails to do so,
then the Department, by sending a second notification by certified mail, may
demand payment of the fine from the person cited and may prohibit the
issuance of any building permit, license or approval to the cited person
until such fees are paid.



 



   (5)   Appeals.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)  Appeals may be made from a Notice to Comply issued by the
Department pursuant to this subdivision pursuant to Section 12.26K.



 



   19.   Areas For Collecting And Loading Recyclable Materials. 
(Added by Ord. No. 171,687, Eff. 8/19/97.)



 



   (a)   Purpose.  In accordance with state regulations regarding
recycling facilities, these provisions that require adequate areas for
collecting and loading Recyclable Materials serve to divert solid waste and
address source reduction, recycling, and composting activities.



 



   (b)   Definitions.  As used in this subdivision, the term
“development project” shall mean any of the following:



 



   (1)   The issuance of a building permit for a commercial,
industrial, or institutional building where solid waste generated by the
facility is collected and loaded.



 



   (2)   The issuance of a building permit for a marina where solid
waste generated by the facility is collected and loaded.  For the purpose of
this definition, the floor area of a marina is the space dedicated to the
docking or mooring of marine vessels.



 



   (3)   Any new public facility where solid waste generated by the
facility is collected and loaded, or any improvements to an area of an
existing public facility used to collect and load solid waste generated by
the facility.  For purposes of this definition, a public facility includes
but is not limited to buildings, structures, marinas, and outdoor recreation
areas owned by a local agency.



 



   (4)   The issuance of a building permit for a residential building
having four or more living units where solid waste generated by the units is
collected and loaded.



 



   (5)   The issuance of a building permit for four or more residential
units, including detached single-family homes, where solid waste generated by
the units is collected and loaded and serves all four or more units.



 



   (c)   Requirements for Recycling Areas or Rooms in a Development
Project.  All new development projects, all existing multiple-family
residential development projects of four or more units where the addition of
floor area is 25 percent or more, and all other existing development projects
where the addition of floor area is 30 percent or more, shall provide an
adequate Recycling Area or Room, as defined in Section 12.03 of this Code,
for collection and loading of Recyclable Materials.  When a new development
project provides a Trash Chute or an existing development project adds a
Trash Chute, a Recycling Chute shall also be provided in both cases. 
Recycling Chutes shall be clearly marked "recycling only" at every point of
entry.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,227, Eff. 9/1/10.)



 



   Any existing development project for which multiple building permits
are issued within a 12-month period which results in the expansion of the
existing development project beyond the above thresholds shall also provide a
Recycling Area or Room.



 



   The Recycling Area or Room shall be available for use by persons
residing or employed on the property, but shall be kept secured from
unauthorized entry by the general public.  No payment shall be made to
persons depositing Recyclable Materials and no processing of Recyclable
Materials shall be permitted, except for periodic loading of materials into a
vehicle for removal from the site.  The following requirements shall also
apply:



 



   (1)   It shall be the responsibility of the property owner and
lessee to supply and maintain Recycling Area(s) or Room(s) and Recycling
Receptacles that are adequate for the collection of all Recyclable Materials
generated by the use(s) occupying the site;



 



   (2)   The Recycling Area or Room shall comply with the following
standards for minimum size:



 



   (i)   for multiple-family residential uses of 20 or less dwelling
units, or commercial, industrial or institutional uses with a total floor
area of less than 3,000 square feet, the minimum Recycling Area or Room shall
be 30 square feet;



 



   (ii)   for multiple-family residential uses of 21 to 50 dwelling
units, or commercial, industrial or institutional uses having a total floor
area of 3,001 to 7,500 square feet, the minimum Recycling Area or Room shall
be 60 square feet;



 



   (iii)   for multiple-family residential uses of 51 or more dwelling
units, or commercial, industrial or institutional uses having a total floor
area of greater than 7,500 square feet, the minimum Recycling Area or Room
shall be 100 square feet;



 



   (iv)   every Recycling Area or Room shall contain a minimum vertical
space of at least eight feet;



 



   (3)   The Recycling Area or Room shall be of adequate size for the
collection of all Recyclable Materials generated by the use(s) occupying the
site, without such materials overflowing the area or forcing significant
amounts of Recyclable Materials to be discarded as general refuse, or the
Department of Building and Safety shall determine the area to be inadequate
and require a larger space, even if the area provided exceeds the minimum
requirements listed in Subparagraph 2 above;



 



   (4)   To encourage active participation in recycling to the maximum
extent possible, each property owner, manager, or lessee shall inform all
tenants and/or employees living or working on the property of the
availability and location of the Recycling Area(s) or Room(s), the types of
materials that are collected for recycling, that the recycling collection
facilities are located on the property pursuant to state law requiring the
diversion of a substantial portion of solid waste;



 



   (5)   Each property owner or lessee shall contract with a recycler
or hauler for the pick-up of Recyclable Materials, separate from trash
collection, when receptacles are full or every week, whichever occurs first;



 



   (6)   No toxic or hazardous material shall be stored in Recycling
Areas or Rooms recycling or receptacles;



 



   (7)   All Recyclable Materials shall be placed or stored in
Recycling Receptacles.  Paper products and other lightweight materials shall
be immediately placed into covered Recycling Receptacles when they are
dropped off;



 



   (8)   On a daily basis the Recycling Area or Room shall be kept free
of litter, debris, spillage, bugs, rodents, odors, and other similar
undesirable hazards;



 



   (9)   The Recycling Area or Room shall be clearly identified by one
or more signs designating it for recycling collection and loading;



 



   (10)   The Recycling Area or Room shall be available for use by
persons residing or employed on the property, but shall be kept secured from
unauthorized entry by the general public;



 



   (11)   Recycling Areas or Rooms shall not diminish the required
number of parking spaces or impair traffic flow;



 



   (12)   Recycling Areas or Rooms shall be placed alongside of trash
areas or rooms wherever possible and shall comply with the following: 
(Amended by Ord. No. 181,227, Eff. 9/1/10.)



 



   (i)   Recycling Rooms shall comply with Section 91.6102 of this Code
and must be equipped with an automatic sprinkler system pursuant to Section
57.304.2.2 of this Code.



 



   (ii)   outdoor Recycling Areas in commercial, industrial, or public
facilities, or residential buildings having four or more living units shall
be confined to the rear one-half of the lot and shall not exceed an area of
300 square feet.



 



   (iii)   outdoor Recycling Areas shall be completely enclosed by an
eight-foot wall or chain link fence with wooden slates, concrete block, or
similar construction (enclosure) with gates of the same height.  No material
shall exceed the height of the wall or fence.  The enclosure shall be
constructed with a concrete floor sloped to drain, and a water faucet for
hose attachment shall be located adjacent to or within the enclosure.  The
enclosure shall be secured by a locking gate.



 



   (iv)   pursuant to Section 57.304.2.2 of the Code, outdoor Recycling
Areas shall be located a minimum of 10 feet from any building or building
opening except when located adjacent to a minimum one-hour wall and a minimum
of 10 feet from any building opening.



 



   20.   (Added by Ord. No. 174,132, Eff. 9/3/01.)  Wireless
Telecommunication Facilities (WTF) Standards - Notwithstanding any provision
of this Code to the contrary, the following standards shall apply to the
placement of all wireless telecommunication facilities.  These standards
shall not apply to satellite dish antennae, radio and television transmitters
and antennae incidental to residential use.



 



   (a)   General Requirements



 



   (1)   Antenna Requirements.  The antenna on any monopole or support
structure must meet the minimum siting distances to habitable structures
required for compliance with Federal Communications Commission (FCC)
regulations and standards governing the environmental effects of radio
frequency emissions.  The grouping of WTF on a site is encouraged where
technically feasible.  The footing of the antenna shall be structurally
designed to support a monopole which is at least 15 feet higher than the
monopole under review, while being within the applicable requirements of the
height district, in order to allow a future wireless network to replace an
existing monopole with a new monopole capable of supporting co-location.



 



   If it is determined that additional height is necessary to support
co-location, the Zoning Administrator is authorized to consider reasonable
modifications to pole height, and the co-location of additional equipment
within the 15 feet extension limit pursuant to Section 12.24W49 of this Code.



 



   Monopoles, dishes and other antenna equipment not regulated by the
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) shall have a non-reflective  finish to
minimize the visibility of the structure and not be illuminated, unless
required by the FAA.



 



   (2)   Antenna Setback



 



   (i)   Monopole setback.  Monopoles shall be designed at the minimum
functional height.  All monopoles shall be set back a distance equal to 20
percent of the height of the monopole, from all abutting streets, residential
uses, and in all zones, or areas with access to the public, unless a
qualified structural engineer specifies in writing that any collapse of the
pole will occur within a lesser distance under all foreseeable circumstances.



 



   The monopole shall be certified by a professional structural engineer
licensed in the State of California to meet any structural standards for
steel antenna towers and structures set in the Electronic Industries
Association/Telecommunications Industries Association Standards referenced as
EIA/TIA-222-E and as amended.  Monopoles shall meet the main building
setback requirements of the underlying zone.  The setback shall be
sufficient to:



 



   a.   provide for an adequate vegetative, topographic or other buffer
as set forth in Subparagraph (5) (Screening) and (6) (Landscaping) of
Paragraph (a) of this subsection;



 



   b.   preserve the privacy of adjoining residential property; and



 



   c.   protect adjoining property from the potential impact of pole
failure.



 



   (ii)   Attached or Roof Mounted Antenna Setback.  Roof mounted
antennas shall be located at the greatest feasible distance from the edge of
the building.  Equipment facilities and antennas shall not extend more than
ten feet above the highest point of the roof top, unless mounted on the walls
of a penthouse.



 



   (3)   Locating Antenna at Existing Sites.  An effort shall be made
to locate new WTF on existing approved structures or sites, when feasible.



 



   (4)   Visual impact.  The WTF shall be designed to have the least
possible visual impact on the environment, taking into consideration
technical, engineering, economic and other pertinent factors.  Antennas
clustered at the same site shall be of the same general height and facilities
of the same design.



 



   (5)   Screening



 



   (i)   Ground, roof and pole mounted antennas shall be screened by
fencing, buildings or parapets that appear to be an integral part of the
building or landscaping so that not more than 25 percent of the combined
tower structure and antenna height is visible from grade level of adjoining
property and adjoining public rights-of-way.



 



   (ii)   Dish antennas shall not be light reflective or have any sign
copy on them nor shall they be illuminated, unless required by the FAA.



 



   (iii)   Building mounted antennas shall be screened from view under
most circumstances, if the antennas would otherwise be visible to adjacent
properties and adjacent public rights-of-way.



 



   Omni-directional antennas may not be required to be screened if it is
demonstrated that the screening device would create a greater visual impact
than the unscreened antennas.



 



   The screening shall include parapets, walls or similar architectural
elements provided that it is painted and textured to integrate with the
architecture of the building.



 



   As an alternative screening method, landscaping positioned on the
premises to screen antennas from adjacent properties may be proposed in lieu
of, or in combination with, architectural screening.  Antennas shall be
mounted on the parapet, penthouse wall or facade, building mounted antennas
shall be painted and textured or otherwise architecturally integrated to
match the existing building.



 



   (iv)   Support structure antennas shall be placed on premises to
minimize visual impacts to adjacent non-industrial properties and adjacent
public rights-of-way.  Landscaping shall be positioned on the premises to
minimize the visual impacts to adjacent non-industrial properties and
adjacent public rights-of-way.



 



   (v)   Accessory equipment and associated equipment facilities shall
be located either in an interior space in the existing building or in an
attached or detached exterior building.  Exterior equipment buildings
constructed on premises shall be architecturally similar to the existing
building or otherwise architecturally integrated.



 



   (vi)   Monopoles shall be of tapered design (e.g., three foot base
to 1.5 foot top) with no climbing spikes.  Whenever possible, existing light
standards in parking lots should be used with antennas above electroliers.



 



   (6)   Landscaping and Maintenance.  Landscaping shall be required
at the perimeter of the property which abuts streets, residential uses, and
in all zones, or areas with access to the public as follows:



 



   (i)   For monopoles, a landscaped buffer area to soften the visual
impact shall commence at the property line.  At least one row of shrubs
shall be spaced not more than three feet apart.  Materials shall be of a
variety which can be expected to grow to form a continuous hedge at least
five feet in height within two years of planting.  At least one row of trees
or shrubs, not less than four feet in height at the time of planting, and
spaced not more than 15 feet apart, also shall be provided.  Appropriate
irrigation and maintenance to sustain any required landscaping shall be
required.



 



   (ii)   Pursuant to Section 12.24 W.49. of this Code, the
decision-maker may allow use of an alternate detailed plan and specifications
for landscaping and screening, including plantings, fences, walls, sign and
structural applications, manufactured devices and other features designed to
screen, camouflage and buffer antennas, poles and accessory uses.  The
antenna and supporting structure or monopole shall be of a design and treated
with an architectural material so that it is camouflaged to resemble a tree
with a single trunk and branches on its upper part, or shall be designed
using other similar stealth techniques.  (Amended by Ord. No. 177,103, Eff.
12/18/05.)



 



   (7)   Signal Interference.  Claims of interference with the
operations of any business or residential use due to the operations of the
facility shall be subject to correction by the permittee.  Any claim shall
be reviewed by a qualified, mutually agreeable third party who will test
actual site conditions and propose mitigation of any interference determined
to be due to the operation of the facility.



 



   (8)   Time Limits.  All wireless telecommunication facilities shall
be removed within 90 days of discontinuance of use.



 



   (b)   Application Requirements Checklist For Discretionary
Actions.  In addition to the submittal requirements prescribed for
conditional use permits pursuant to Section 12.24W49 of this Code, an
application for approval of a new, modified or additional wireless
telecommunication facilities shall contain all of the following information:



 



   (1)   Site Plan.  Site Plans or plot plans, drawn to scale, and
elevation drawings, including “before” and “after” photographs
specifying the location of antennas, support structures, power poles, utility
boxes, transmission building and/or other accessory uses, access, parking,
fences, signs, landscaped areas and adjacent land uses.  A listing of the
applicant’s existing wireless telecommunication facilities shall also be
included.  Plans and drawings shall demonstrate compliance with the siting
distances of Subparagraph (1) (Antenna Requirements) and Subparagraph (2)
(Antenna Setback) of Paragraph (a) of this subdivision.



 



   (2)   Landscape and Irrigation Plan.  A Landscaping and Irrigation
Plan, drawn to scale, and elevation drawings including “before” and
“after” photographs indicating size, spacing and type of plantings
required in Subparagraph (6) of Paragraph (a) (Landscaping), and indicating
steps to be taken to provide screening as required in Subparagraph (5) of
Paragraph (a) (Screening) to meet the visual impact standard of Subparagraph
(4) of Paragraph (a) (Visual Impact) of this subdivision.



 



   (3)   Structural Integrity Report.  A Structural Integrity Report
from a professional engineer licensed in the State of California documenting
the following:



 



   (i)   Tower height and design, including technical, engineering,
economic, and other pertinent factors governing selection of the proposed
design;



 



   (ii)   Total anticipated capacity of the structure, including number
and types of antennas which can be accommodated;



 



   (iii)   Failure characteristics of the tower and demonstration that
site and setbacks are of adequate size to contain debris in the event of
failure; and



 



   (iv)   Specific design and reconstruction plans to allow shared
use.  (This submission is required only in the event that the applicant
intends to share use of the facility by subsequent reinforcement and
reconstruction of the WTF.)



 



   (4)   FAA and FCC Coordination.  Statements regarding the
regulations of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and the Federal
Communications Commission (FCC), respectively, that:



 



   (i)   (required only if the WTF is near an airfield) the application
has not been found to be a hazard to air navigation under Part 77, Federal
Aviation, Federal Aviation Regulations, or a statement from the applicant
that no compliance with Part 77 is required, and the reasons therefor; and/or



 



   (ii)   (required of all WTF applicants) the application complies
with the regulations of the Federal Communications Commission, or a statement
from the applicant that compliance is not necessary, and the reasons therefor.



 



   (5)   Evidence of Co-location Efforts.  Evidence submitted to the
Department of City Planning on those requiring discretionary review pursuant
to Section 12.24W49 of this Code or to the Department of Building and Safety
for those that are permitted by right prior to the issuance of a building
permit, that an effort was made to locate on an existing WTF site including
coverage/interference analysis and capacity analysis and a brief statement as
to other reasons for success or no success, including a listing of
alternative sites that were examined, as set forth in Subparagraph (3)
Locating Antenna at Existing Sites) and Subparagraph (5) (Screening) of
Paragraph (a) of this subdivision.



 



   (6)   Existing Facilities Information.  A listing of addresses and
type (i.e., monopole, antenna) of all WTF’s within the City of Los Angeles
which are operated by the applicant.



 



   (7)   Coverage/Capacity Report (Propagation Study).  A
coverage/interference analysis and capacity analysis (also known as a
propagation study) that the location and height of the antennas as proposed
is necessary to meet the frequency re-use and spacing needs of the system and
to provide adequate wireless telecommunication coverage and capacity to areas
which cannot be adequately served by locating the antennas in a less
restrictive zone or that an effort was made to locate on existing sites or
towers, with no success.



 



   (c)   Approval Criteria.  In addition to the findings for approval
required pursuant to Section 12.24W49 of this Code, a Zoning Administrator
may allow a new, modified or additional wireless telecommunication antenna or
facility use based on additional findings that the following criteria are met:



 



   (1)   The site is of a size and shape sufficient to provide the
following setbacks:



 



   (i)   For a monopole or tower, the tower setback requirements of
Subparagraph (2) (Antenna Setback) of Paragraph (a) of this subdivision are
met as to those portions of the property abutting the residential or public
uses.



 



   (ii)   For all other towers or monopoles, the site shall be of
sufficient size to provide the setback required in the underlying zone
between the base of the tower, accessory structures and uses, and guy
anchors, if any, to all abutting property lines.



 



   (2)   The required setbacks shall be improved to meet the screening
and landscaping standards of Subparagraph (5) (Screening) and Subparagraph
(6) (Landscaping) of Paragraph (a) of this subdivision to the extent possible
within the area provided.



 



   (3)   The visual impact standard of Subparagraph (4) of Paragraph
(a) of this subdivision is met; and



 



   (4)   An effort in good faith was made by the applicant to locate on
existing sites or facilities in accordance with the guidelines of
Subparagraph (3) (Locating Antenna at Existing Sites) of Paragraph (a) of
this subdivision.



 



   (d)   Variations From The Citywide Wireless Telecommunication
Standards.  The Zoning Administrator shall have the authority to consider
requests to vary from these standards pursuant to Section 12.24 W.49. of this
Code.



 



   21.   (Added by Ord. No. 177,120, Eff. 12/26/05.)  Rooftop Wireless
Telecommunications Facilities - Notwithstanding Subdivision 20., above,
wireless antennas, including the associated equipment cabinets, are permitted
by right, including those within any geographic specific plan areas, when
located on the rooftops of buildings in the C and M Zones.  However, these
wireless antennas and associated equipment cabinets are not permitted by
right pursuant to this subdivision on the rooftops of buildings located
within a scenic parkway specific plan, scenic corridor specific plan, a
roadway designated as a scenic highway within a specific plan area; or
buildings that are designated on the National Register of Historic Places,
including Contributing Buildings in National Register Historic Districts, the
California Register of Historic Resources, the City of Los Angeles List of
Historic-Cultural Monuments, or a Contributing Structure located in an
Historic Preservation Overlay Zone (HPOZ) that has been established pursuant
to Section 12.20.3 of this Code.  The following standards shall apply to
wireless antennas and the associated equipment cabinets permitted by this
subdivision:



 



   (a)   The antenna and any equipment cabinet are located on rooftops
which are at least 40 feet in height above grade, provided the wireless
antennas and associated equipment cabinets do not exceed any applicable
height limit;



 



   (b)   The antenna and any equipment cabinet are enclosed on all
sides, including the roof, with a fiberglass or similar covering material for
screening approved by the Department of Building and Safety. 
Notwithstanding LAMC Section 12.03, the area under such enclosure shall not
be considered floor area;



 



   (c)   The structure covering the antenna and any equipment cabinet
is painted and textured to match the exterior walls of the building;



 



   (d)   The total of all the wireless antenna structures and
associated equipment cabinets on a rooftop does not cover more than 10
percent of the total area of the roof; and



 



   (e)   The height of any wireless antenna structures and associated
equipment cabinets is limited to ten feet above the highest point of the
rooftop, as measured from immediately adjacent to the rooftop surface where
the wireless antenna structures and associated equipment cabinets are located
unless mounted on the walls of a penthouse, in which case the wireless
antenna structures and associated equipment cabinets shall not exceed the
height of the penthouse; and



 



   (f)   Prior to issuance of any building permit authorizing the
rooftop installation of a wireless antenna structure and associated equipment
cabinets, the permit applicant shall provide the Department of Building and
Safety with evidence that the council district office where the site of the
proposed installation is located has been given a 20-day written notice prior
to the issuance of such permit. This notification shall contain the name and
address of the building permit applicant and the property address of the
proposed installation and the approximate date of start of installation. This
notification shall be by certified mail, return receipt requested.



 



   Wireless antennas and rooftop equipment cabinets which do not meet
these standards shall require a conditional use permit pursuant to Section
12.24 W.49. of this Code.



 



   22.   (Added by Ord. No. 177,244, Eff. 2/18/06.)  Cargo Container
Storage Yard.  Cargo container storage yards may be permitted by right in
the M3 Zone.  The following standards shall apply to all cargo container
storage yards, except those located in whole or in part within the boundaries
of the Port of Los Angeles Community Plan Area.



 



   (a)   The following provisions apply to the stacking of cargo
containers:



 



   (1)   The stacking of cargo containers more than 20 feet high shall
only be permitted if a structural analysis done by a licensed engineer or
architect in the State of California is submitted to and approved by the Los
Angeles Department of Building and Safety (LADBS).



 



   (2)   Cargo container stacking within 300 feet or less of a
residential zone shall be limited to a maximum height of 30 feet. There is no
maximum container height limit beyond 300 feet of a residential zone, except
as limited by any applicable height limitation and Paragraph (h)(1) below.



 



   (b)   Cargo container storage yards shall obtain a "use of land"
permit from LADBS for one or more contiguous lots maintained as one site.



 



   (c)   The perimeter of each site with a separate "use of land"
permit shall be enclosed by a minimum eight-foot high fence or wall.



 



   (1)   Fencing may be constructed of chain-link, however fencing
adjacent to a Class I or II Major Highway shall also comply with Paragraph
(h)(3) below; and



 



   (2)   Fencing shall be maintained in good condition and
appearance.  All walls, fences and other structures shall be maintained free
of graffiti; and



 



   (3)   Sheet metal shall be prohibited as a fencing material; and



 



   (4)   There shall be no requirement to fence each individual lot
where multiple lots are maintained as one site under a valid "use of land"
permit, including individual lots that may be separated by a public
right-of-way, easement or other land occupied by a revocable permit.



 



   (d)   The entire site shall be graded pursuant to Chapter IX of this
Code.



 



   (e)   All driveways, access ways and parking areas shall be covered
with a decomposed granite, crushed gravel or similar material and be treated
with dust control methods.



 



   (f)   An annual site inspection shall be conducted by LADBS pursuant
to Section 12.26 F. of this Code.



 



   (g)   All containers must be empty and cleaned of any residue which
may pose any kind of physical or health risk.



 



   (h)   In addition to the above specified requirements, the following
conditions shall also apply to sites that are located adjacent to a Class I
or II Major Highway.  However, for those portions of the site that are
separated from the roadway by a grade change of more than ten feet within
five feet of the property line, Subparagraphs (2) and (3) of this paragraph
shall not apply:



 



   (1)   Cargo container stacking shall be limited to a maximum height
of 20 feet within 20 feet of the property line adjoining a Class I or II
Major Highway.  There is no maximum cargo container height limit beyond 20
feet of a Class I or II Major Highway, except as limited by Paragraph (a)
above.



 



   (2)   A minimum five foot setback shall be provided along the street
frontage adjacent to a Class I or II Major Highway.  The setback shall be
fully landscaped with drought resistant plants, ground cover and trees; with
one minimum 15-gallon size tree planted for each 15 linear feet of street
frontage and minimum three shrubs for each tree.  The entire landscaped area
shall be well maintained at all times.



 



   (3)   A solid wall or fence shall be required on the street frontage
adjacent to a Class I or II Major Highway.  The wall or fence shall be
located within the required setback, and at the rear of the landscaped area
between the landscaping and the use.  A chain-link fence with slats and
growing vines may be permitted in place of a solid wall or fence.



 



   B.   (None)



 



   C.   Area



 



   1.   Area Regulation – (Exceptions are provided for in Sec. 12.22-
C)



 



   (a)   No building or structure shall be erected or maintained and no
existing building shall be enlarged, moved or maintained unless all the area
regulations are complied with for the zone in which they are located.



 



   A zoning law which prescribes a minimum area for residential lots is
valid and constitutional and is not objectional upon retroactive grounds in
destroying the owner’s vested property rights, but it looks only to the
future in guiding a pattern of home development in the enhancement of the
public interest, and a sale of a piece of property which contain less than
the minimum area is voidable.



   Clemons v. City of Los Angeles, 36 Cal. 2d 95.



 



   A sale of property in violation of the ordinance is voidable at the
instance of the buyer.



   Harland v. Noto. 105 Cal. App. 2d 740. 743.



   Border v. McClung, 93 Cal. App. 2d 692.



 



   (b)   No required yard or other open space around an existing
building, or which is hereafter provided around any building for the purpose
of complying with the provisions of this article, shall be considered as
providing a yard or open space for any other building, nor shall any yard or
any other required open space on an adjoining lot be considered as providing
a yard or open space on a lot wherein a building is to be erected or
established.



 



   No required yard or other open space around a building shall be located
and maintained on property which is in a more restrictive zone than that of
the property on which such building is located; except that where a lot is
partly in the P zone and partly in a C or M zone, any P zone may be used to
meet any yard requirements of the C or M zone, provided the front yard
conforms to the requirements of Section 12.21-C,1(g) and all unpaved areas of
such yards are suitably landscaped. The relationship between the more
restrictive and less restrictive zones shall be determined by the sequence of
zones set forth in Section 12.23-B,1(c). (2nd Para., Amended by Ord. No.
151,599, Eff. 11/25/78.)



 



   (c)   Except in the RZ Zone, every main building shall be located
and maintained on a “lot” or “air space lot” as defined in this
article, and all parts of such building shall be connected in a substantial
manner by common walls or a continuous roof. In the RZ Zone a main building
may be located on not more than five lots. There may not be more than one
such building on a lot in the RA, RE, RS, R1, RU, RMP, or RW1 Zones, or on a
group of lots in the RZ Zone. (Amended by Ord. No. 164,904, Eff. 7/6/89.)



 



   Provided, however, there may be more than one main residential building
on a lot in the RW2 Zone, but there shall be no more than one main
residential building for each 2,300 square feet of lot area.



 



   (d)   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  No
building or structure shall be erected or maintained on a lot which abuts a
street having only a portion of its required width where no part of the
street would normally revert to the lot if vacated, or which lot is separated
from the a street by only a future street, unless the yards provided and
maintained adjacent to the street in connection with the building or
structure have a width or depth, which includes the portion of the lot needed
to complete the required width of the street, plus the width or depth of the
yards required on the lot by other provisions of this article.  Where a
future street intervenes between the lot and the street, the yards shall be
determined as though the lot abutted directly on the future street.  In no
case, shall this regulation be applied so as to reduce the buildable width of
a corner lot to less than 40 feet.



 



   The City Planning Commission, upon request, shall determine a required
street width.  The determination shall be based upon the standards for
street widths contained in the subdivision regulations of the City, the
prevailing widths of streets in the immediate, surrounding area, with due
consideration given to any particular topographical or geological conditions
or sizes of ownership affecting the property involved.



 



   (e)   On any lot of less than one acre in an “RA” or “R”
Zone which was of record or held in separate ownership on June 1,1946, or was
subsequently created either by the recording of a division of land map or
otherwise in accordance with the applicable zoning regulations, the
originally required front yard shall be provided and maintained on such lot
in addition to any new front yard required by any subsequent rearrangement of
the lot lines by sale or division (without recording a subdivision map)
creating a new lot fronting on a different street than that on which said
original lot fronted.  (Amended by Ord. No. 140,717, Eff. 8/12/70.)



 



   (f)   No accessory building shall be structurally altered,
converted, enlarged or maintained for the purpose of providing living
quarters or dwelling units unless such accessory building and all
enlargements thereof are made to conform to all the regulations of this
article for new buildings.



 



   (g)   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.) Every required
front, side and rear yard shall be open and unobstructed from the ground to
the sky, except for those projections permitted by Sections 12.08.5, 12.09.5
and 12.22.



 



   No automobile parking space shall be provided or maintained within a
required front yard. Except where a lot is developed with a building meeting
the requirements of Section 12.08.3B1, not more than 50 percent of a required
front yard shall be designed, improved or used for access driveways.



 



   All portions of the required front yard of one-family dwellings,
two-family dwellings, multiple dwellings or group dwellings, apartment
houses, hotels, motels, apartment hotels and retirement hotels in the RE, RS,
R1, RU, RZ, R2, RD, R3, RAS3, R4, RAS4, R5, or C Zones not used for necessary
driveways and walkways, including decorative walkways, shall be used for
planting, and shall not otherwise be paved.  The planted area in the RD, R3,
RAS3, R4, RAS4, R5, or C Zones shall be planted in accordance with a
landscape plan prepared by a licensed landscape architect, licensed
architect, or landscape contractor to the satisfaction of the Department of
City Planning.  The planted area shall include at least one tree, which
shall be at least 15 gallon in size and at least six feet in height at the
time of planting, for each 500 square feet of planted area and shall be
equipped with an automatic irrigation system, which shall be properly
maintained.  (Amended by Ord. No. 179,191, Eff. 11/5/07.)



 



   A fee pursuant to Section 19.01I shall be paid to the Department of
City Planning for the checking of landscape plans, pursuant to this
paragraph. However, the fee shall be waived if any other fee has been paid
for checking of landscape plans for the same property.



 



   No swimming pool, fish pond or other body of water which is designed or
used to contain water 18 inches or more in depth shall be permitted in any
required yard space in which fences over 3-1/2 feet in height are prohibited,
even though the pool, pond or body of water extends below the adjacent
natural ground level.



 



   (h)   At each end of a through lot there shall be a front yard of
the depth required by this article for the zone in which each street frontage
is located, except that only one front yard need be provided on those through
lots which abut on a primary, major or secondary highway, as such highways
are shown on the “Highways and Freeways Element of the General Plan,”
when the rights to vehicular ingress and egress from such through lots to the
highway have been abandoned or prohibited by a tract restriction as a
condition precedent to the approval of the recordation of the subdivision in
which such through lots are included. Where only one front yard is required
on a through lot, as provided herein, the rear yard shall be located on the
portion of such lot adjacent to the highway.  (Amended by Ord. No. 141,821,
Eff. 5/24/71.)



 



   Where a through lot is less than 150 feet in depth or is developed as a
single building site, and the two required front yards are provided, no rear
yard is required.



 



   (i)   No required yard or other open space around an existing
building shall be separated in ownership from the portion of the lot upon
which the building is located.



 



   (j)   The area of a lot upon which a building or use is located
shall not be reduced below the total area required for all of the dwelling
units or guest rooms contained in the building or required for the specific
use, or required because of the height or total floor area contained in the
building, by separating the ownership of a portion of the lot from that upon
which the building or use is located. No required lot which is provided for a
dwelling unit, guest room, specific use or total floor area within a building
shall be considered as providing the required lot area for any other dwelling
unit, guest room, specific use or total floor area within a building.
(Amended by Ord. No. 110,225, Eff. 11/23/57.)



 



   (k)   No lot or parcel of land held under separate ownership at the
time this article becomes effective shall be separated in ownership or
reduced in size below the minimum lot width or lot area required by this
article, nor shall any lot or parcel of land held under separate ownership at
the time this article becomes effective and which has a width or an area less
than that required by this article be further reduced in any manner.



 



   (l)   In determining the required side and rear yards of a building,
any basement containing habitable rooms shall be considered a story. (Added
by Ord. No. 131,309, Eff. 4/24/66,)



 



   See citation under Sec. 12.21-C,l, (a)



 



   2.   Spaces Between Buildings – Passageways. – When more than
one residential building or a rear residential building is located on a lot
or the entrance to a residential building is not directly from a street, the
following passageways and other open spaces shall be provided and maintained.



 



   (a)   (Amended by Ord. No. 151,608, Eff. 11/26/78.)  There shall be
at least 20 feet of space between every two-story apartment hotel, apartment
house, boarding or rooming house, guest house hotel or multiple dwelling, and
any other main building on the same lot. Such space may be reduced to 10 feet
where the buildings are located on a corner lot and the space opens directly
onto the side street.



 



   In the RD zone there shall be at least 20 feet of space between every
main building and any other main building on the same lot where either of the
buildings contains three or more dwelling units.



 



   In all other cases there shall be at least 10 feet of space between
every residential building and another main building on the same lot.



 



   The width of the space herein required shall be increased by two feet
for each story over two contained in any building adjoining said space.



 



   Those regulations do not apply to the spaces required between accessory
buildings (not designed as residential buildings) and other buildings on the
same lot as otherwise provided for in Subdivision 5 of this subsection.



 



   (b)   There shall be a passageway of at least 10 feet in width
extending from a street to one entrance of each dwelling unit or guest room
in every residential building, except those located in the RW, RU, or RZ
Zones, unless there is an entrance to the dwelling unit or guest room opening
directly onto a public street or into a hallway opening into a public street
or onto a l0-foot passageway extending to a public street. In the RW and RZ
Zones, there shall be a passageway at least 4 feet in width, and in the RU
Zone, there shall be a passageway at least 3 feet in width, extending from a
street, or public right-of-way in the case of the RW Zones, to one entrance
of each dwelling unit in every residential building. (Amended by Ord. No.
161,716, Eff. 12/6/86.)



 



   The passageway shall be increased by two feet in width for each story
over two contained in any building located between the public street and the
building which the passageway serves. The passageway shall be located on the
same lot as the building which it serves.



 



   Where a one story, one or two-family dwelling has been continuously
maintained on the front of a lot since prior to June 1,1946, with a
passageway of less than ten feet but not less than eight feet in width from
the street to the rear of said dwelling, an additional one or two family
dwelling may be erected and maintained on the rear of the lot, provided the
passageway is not further reduced. However, this limited passageway shall be
permitted where there are to be only two residential buildings on the lot.
(Amended by Ord. No. 108,661, Eff. 2/11/57.)



 



   In addition to all other applicable provisions herein, where a building
or portion thereof is constructed on or within an air space lot, and such
building or portion thereof is used for residential purposes, there shall be
a passageway extending from a street to the entrance of such building on the
lot which has had the air space above or below it divided by such air space
lot or lots. (4th Para. Added by Ord. No. 156,681, Eff. 6/21/82.)



 



   (c)   In computing the width of a passageway where the passageway,
adjoins a lot line, the width of any required yard adjoining such lot line
may be assumed to be a portion of the required width of the passageway.



 



   (d)   Any space between buildings or any passageway having less
width than that required by this subdivision shall be maintained and shall
not be further reduced in any manner.



 



   (e)   The passageways and other open spaces required by this
subdivision shall be open and unobstructed from ground to sky, except for the
projections permitted by the provisions of Section 12.22 C., and except that
Solar Structures that provide shade over the habitable area may cover up to
25% of the required open space.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,110, Eff. 5/29/12.)



 



   3.   Yards for Institutions, Churches, etc. – In the “RA” and
“R” Zones, no building, structure or land shall be used and no building
shall be erected, structurally altered, converted, enlarged or maintained for
a hospital, institution, church, library, museum or other similar use, unless
the following yards are provided and maintained:



 



   (a)   For hospitals, institutions or similar uses, there shall be a
side yard on each side of said buildings of not less than 20% of the width of
the lot (except as permitted by (c) hereof, but such side yard need not
exceed 25 feet, and shall be not less than ten feet in width where said yard
adjoins another lot in an “RA” or “R” Zone.



 



   (b)   For churches, clubs, educational institutions, elementary and
high schools, libraries or museums, the combined widths of the two side yards
on an interior lot shall be not less than 40% of the width of the lot, but
need not exceed 50 feet, and on either an interior lot or a corner lot the
side yard adjoining another lot in an “RA” or “R” Zone shall be not
less than ten feet in width.



 



   (c)   The side or rear yard required for the buildings referred to
in (a) and (b) hereof, which adjoin property in a “C”, “CM” or
“M” Zone, or the side yard which adjoins the street side of a corner lot,
may be the same as required for buildings in the “R4” Zone. (Sec. 12.11
C.2. and 3.);



 



   (d)   All other yards in connection with buildings referred to in
(a) and (b) hereof, shall comply with the regulations on the zone in which
the building is located.



 



   (e)   For hospitals, institutions, churches, libraries, museums or
other similar uses located in a building which combines residential and
commercial uses pursuant to Section 12.22 A.18. (developments combining
residential and commercial uses), the yard requirements set forth in Section
12.22 A.18.(c) shall apply. (Added by Ord. No. 156,681, Eff. 6/21/82.)



 



   (f)   (Added by Ord. No. 156,681, Eff. 6/21/82.) Notwithstanding any
other provision of this article to the contrary, for hospitals, institutions,
churches, libraries, museums or other similar uses not located in a building
which combines residential and commercial uses, the Director of Planning may
apply the yard requirements set forth in Section 12.22 A.18.(c) if he finds:



 



   (1)   the use is on a separate lot or air space lot from the
residential or commercial uses,



 



   (2)   the use is an integral part of a project which combines
residential and commercial uses,



 



   (3)   the yards permitted by Section 12.22 A.18.(c) are compatible
to the surrounding uses.



 



   4.   Tennis or Paddle Tennis Court Construction and Operation
Standards and Regulations.  (Added by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.) To establish construction and operation standards and regulations
for tennis or paddle tennis courts constructed in the A and R Zones if the
courts are accessory to the primary residential use of the subject lots. 
The standards and regulations may include, but are not limited to: hours of
use, type of intensity of lighting and the height and type of windscreens. 
The standards and regulations shall reasonably restrict and minimize any
detrimental effect of the location and design and use of the courts on the
occupants of adjoining properties and the neighborhood.



 



   5.   Location of Accessory Buildings and Tennis or Paddle Tennis
Courts – No accessory building or tennis or paddle tennis court shall be
constructed, erected or maintained and no existing accessory building or
tennis or paddle tennis court shall be structurally altered, converted,
enlarged, moved or maintained unless such accessory building or tennis or
paddle tennis court is located on the lot in conformance with the following
regulations: (Amended by Ord. No. 151,466, Eff. 10/27/78.)



 



   (a)   In the “A” and “R” Zones, every animal keeping
structure for the housing of equines, cattle, sheep, goats, swine, or other
similar animals shall be located on the rear half of a lot, but need not be
located more than 100 feet from the front lot line. Every structure shall be
located not less than 25 feet from all side lot lines An animal keeping
structure or enclosure shall neither be located closer than 35 feet from the
habitable rooms of the animal keeper’s dwelling unit nor closer than 75
feet from the habitable rooms of a neighbor’s dwelling unit. (Amended by
Ord. No. 157,144, Eff. 11/22/82.)



 



   (b)   In the A and R Zones, all other accessory buildings (not
regulated by Paragraph (a) above or permitted in the front yard of a sloping
lot) shall be located on the rear half of a lot but need not be located more
than 55 feet from a front lot line. In the A1 and A2 Zones, such accessory
building shall be located not less than ten feet from any side street lot
line, and in the RA and R Zones shall be located not closer to the side
street lot line than the width of the side yard required for a main building
of the same height. (Amended by Ord. No. 121,925, Eff. 6/4/62.)



 



   (c)   On a reversed corner lot, an accessory building shall not be
located nearer to the side lot line on the street side of such corner lot
than the front yard depth required on the lot in the rear, nor be located
nearer than five feet to the side lot line of such lot. (Amended by Ord. No.
138,685, Eff. 7/10/69.)



 



   (d)   In the A and R Zones, all accessory buildings shall be located
not less than ten feet from any main building or accessory living quarters on
the same lot. Provided, however, that where an accessory building (other than
a residential building) is not nearer to the adjacent lot line than the width
of the side yard required for a main building of the same height, said
accessory building and all its projections may be not less than five feet
from the side of a main building and all of its projections. (Amended by Ord.
No. 121,925, Eff. 6/4/62.)



 



   (e)   In the A and R Zones, any recreation room in an accessory
building and any accessory building designed or used in whole or in part as a
residential building or accessory living quarters shall be located not less
than five feet from the rear lot line and not nearer to any side lot line
than the width of the side yard required for a main building of the same
height. (Amended by Ord. No. 121,925, Eff. 6/4/62.)



 



   (f)   Two-story accessory buildings shall be located not less than
five feet from the rear lot line and not nearer to any side lot line than the
width of the side yard required for a main building of the same height.
(Amended by Ord. No. 121,925, Eff. 6/4/62.)



 



   (g)   No accessory building shall be erected or maintained within
ten feet from the center line of an alley. (Amended by Ord. No. 125,278, Eff.
9/16/63.)



 



   (h)   No accessory building or use shall be located on a property in
a more restrictive zone than that required for the main building or main use
to which it is accessory. The relationship between the more restrictive and
the less restrictive zones shall be determined by the sequence of the zones
set forth in Sec. 12.23-B,1(c), (Amended by Ord. No. 107,091, Eff. 4/13/56.)



 



   (i)   In the C and M Zones an accessory building for a residential
building shall be located in the same manner as permitted in an R Zone.
(Added by Ord. No. 121,925, Eff. 6/4/62.)



 



   (j)   Except as otherwise required in this subdivision, an accessory
building may be located in any portion of a required rear yard, and may be
located on that portion of a required side yard which is within 30 feet of
the rear lot line. An accessory building may be located in a side yard
required for a building more than two stories in height if the accessory
building is not closer than five feet to the side lot line. A one-story
accessory building for a single-family dwelling may be located in that
portion of a required side yard which is within 30 feet of the rear lot line
or in a required side yard if not closer than 75 feet to the front lot line
nor closer than ten feet to the main building. (Added by Ord. No. 125,278,
Eff. 9/16/63.)



 



   (k)   In the RA and R Zones where a through lot with no required
rear yard has a depth of 150 feet or more, an accessory building shall not
extend into either required front yard, except that it need not be more than
25 feet from both front lot lines. (Added by Ord. No. 125,278, Eff. 9/16/63.)



 



   Where such through lot has a depth of less than 150 feet, an accessory
building may be located in one of the required front yards, if such building
is set back from the front lot line a distance of not less than ten per cent
of the lot depth and does not project beyond the front line of an existing
main building along the frontage, except that such building need not be
located more than 25 feet from both front lot lines.



 



   No accessory building on a through lot shall be nearer to any side lot
line than the width of the side yard required for a main building of the same
height.



 



   (l)   A private garage may be located on the required front yard of
a lot having a slope conforming to that specified in Section 12.22-C,6,
provided every portion of the garage building is at least five feet from the
front lot line. Where the wall of such garage is two-thirds below the natural
or finished grade of the lot, whichever is lower, said wall may extend to the
adjacent side lot line; in all other cases, said garage shall not be nearer
to the side lot line than the width of the side yard required for a main
building of the same height. (Added by Ord. No. 125,278, Eff. 9/16/63.)



 



   (m)   Tennis or paddle tennis courts, including fences and light
standards accessory thereto, which are accessory to a primary residential use
on the same lot in the A or R zones, shall observe the same side, front and
rear yards required for a one-story main building in the zone in which they
are located, except as otherwise provided in Section 12.22-C 20 (m) of this
code. (Added by Ord. No. 151,466, Eff. 10/27/78.)



 



   6.   Loading Space.



 



   (a)   A loading space shall be provided and maintained on the same
lot with every hospital, hotel, or institution building.  A loading space
shall be provided and maintained on the same lot with every building in the C
or M Zones where the lot on which said building is located abuts an alley,
provided that when the lot is occupied by a use, such as a service station or
a drive-in business, in which the building covers less than the total
buildable area, a suitable loading space must be provided, but it need not
comply with all the provisions of this section if its location, size and
means of access are approved by the Department of Building and Safety. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 174,769, Eff. 9/26/02.)



 



   EXCEPTION:  No loading space shall be required on a lot that abuts an
alley in the C Zone when all the buildings are erected, structurally altered,
enlarged or maintained and used solely as dwellings or apartment houses. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 174,769, Eff. 9/26/02.)



 



   (b)   Every required loading space shall be so located and arranged
that delivery vehicles may be driven upon or into said space from the alley.
Such loading space shall have a minimum height of 14 feet and shall be
directly accessible through a usable door not less than three feet in width
and not less than six feet six inches in height opening from the building it
is to serve. (Amended by Ord. No. 138,685, Eff. 7/10/69.)



 



   (c)   Every required loading space shall have a minimum area of 400
square feet, a minimum width of 20 feet measured along the alley line, and a
minimum depth of ten feet measured perpendicularly to the alley line except
as hereafter provided in this Subsection. Such loading space may be furnished
within a building where said building is designed and arranged to include
accessible loading space equivalent to that required by this subdivision.



 



   (d)   The required loading space shall have a minimum area of 600
square feet where the gross floor area of all buildings on the lot exceeds
50,000 square feet, but not more than 100,000 square feet, a minimum area of
800 square feet where the gross floor area of all buildings is between
100,000 and 200,000 square feet, and shall be increased by an additional 200
square feet for each additional 200,000 square feet or fraction thereof of
gross floor area in the building.



 



   (e)   The required loading space, on lots less 40 feet in width,
shall extend across the full width of the lot at the alley line, but need not
exceed 10 feet in depth.



 



   (f)   No loading space shall be required on a lot on which a
building, other than a residential building, is to be erected, structurally
altered, or enlarged, and on which there is an existing separate building
being lawfully maintained adjacent to the alley in such manner as to prevent
the establishment of the loading space required by the provisions of this
subdivision.  (Amended by Ord. No. 130,952, Eff. 11/8/65.)



 



   (g)   No loading space shall be required on unusually shaped lots,
oddly located lots, or on hillside lots, when waived by the Department of
Building and Safety as provided for in Sec. 12.26-B.



 



   (h)   Any loading space being maintained in connection with an
existing main building shall be maintained so long as the building remains,
provided, however, that this regulation shall not require the maintenance of
more loading space than is herein required for a new building, nor the
maintenance of such space in any other zone or for any other buildings than
those specified herein.



 



   7.   Special Requirements for Corner Lots in the C and M Zones.
(Added by Ord. No. 143,825, Eff. 10/19/72.)



 



   (a)   in addition to any other requirements contained in this
article, no building or structure shall be erected within a visibility
triangle, or portion thereof, on any lot in the C or M Zones, except a corner
lot subject to the provisions of Section 12.37, or which complies with the
provisions of Section 17.05-D,4 of this Code. Such visibility triangle shall
contain no structure or other obstruction to visibility from two and one-half
to ten feet above the adjacent curb levels. For purposes of this subdivision
a visibility triangle is defined as the area bounded by:



 



   (1)   The front lot line from its intersection with the side street
lot line to a point ten feet from said intersection;



 



   (2)   The side street lot line from its intersection with the front
lot line to a point ten feet from said intersection; and



 



   (3)   A diagonal line joining said two points.



 



   Nothing in this subdivision shall prohibit the location of one column
or pillar supporting an upper story and having no horizontal dimension of
more than 24 inches within the visibility triangle.



 



   (b)   The City Engineer may approve and allow such variations from
the aforesaid requirements as he determines are made necessary by the
conditions of the terrain.



 



   (c)   Any person required to provide a visibility triangle in
accordance with the provisions of this subdivision may appeal any
determination made by the City Engineer to the Board of Public Works. Such an
appeal shall be made in writing and shall state in clear and concise language
the grounds therefor. The Board of Public Works may grant such waivers or
modifications of the requirements of this subdivision as it shall determine
are required to prevent any unreasonable hardship under the facts of each
case so long as such modifications or waivers are in conformity with the
general spirit and intent of the requirements of this subdivision.



 



   (d)   The requirements of this subdivision shall be in addition to
those requirements set forth in Section 62.200 of this Code.



 



   8.   Retaining Walls in Hillside Areas.  (Added by Ord. No.
176,445, Eff. 3/9/05.)  This subdivision applies to retaining walls that
meet all of the following criteria:  located in the A or R Zones (including
the RA Zone), located on land designated as a Hillside Area on the Bureau of
Engineering Basic Grid Map No. A-13372, and located on a lot developed or to
be developed with dwelling units.  For purposes of this subdivision, a
"retaining wall" shall be defined as a freestanding continuous structure, as
viewed from the top, intended to support earth, which is not attached to a
building.  Retaining walls are subject to the following restrictions:



 



   (a)   A maximum of one free standing vertical or approximately
vertical retaining wall may be built on any lot with a maximum height of 12
feet as measured from the top of the wall to the lower side of the adjacent
ground elevation.  However, as shown in the diagram below, a maximum of two
vertical or approximately vertical walls or portions of a wall can be built
if they comply with the following:



 



   (i)   The minimum horizontal distance between the two walls is three
feet,



 



   (ii)   Neither of the two walls exceed a height of 10 feet measured
from the top of each wall to the lower side of the adjacent ground elevation
at each wall, and



 



   (iii)   In no case shall the height of a wall located in a required
yard exceed the height allowed by Section 12.22 C.20.(f) of this Code.



 









 



   (b)   Landscaping.  For retaining walls of eight feet or greater in
height, the applicant must submit a landscape plan designed to completely
hide the retaining wall from view within a reasonable amount of time.  The
landscape plan shall be subject to the approval of the Director of Planning
in accordance with Sections 12.40 through 12.43 of this Code and any
Landscape Guidelines established by the City Planning Commission.



 



   (c)   Zoning Administrator approval for taller walls or additional
walls.  Retaining walls that exceed the heights or the maximum number
allowed in paragraph (a) of this subdivision shall be subject to the approval
of a Zoning Administrator under Section 12.24 X.26. of this Code.



 



   (d)   Exception for public agency projects.  This subdivision does
not apply to projects undertaken by a public agency.



 



   (e)   Exception for prior approved retaining walls.  This
subdivision does not apply to a retaining wall that received a final
discretionary approval, as determined by the Director of Planning, from the
City under another provision of the Code prior to the effective date of the
ordinance adding this new Subdivision 8. to Subsection C. of Section 12.21 of
the Los Angeles Municipal Code.



 



   (f)   Exception for retaining walls required by Building and
Safety.  The provisions of this subdivision do not apply to any retaining
wall built to comply with an order issued by the Department of Building and
Safety to repair an unsafe or substandard condition.



 



   9.   Work Space for Joint Living and Work Quarters.  (Added by Ord.
No. 181,133, Eff. 5/11/10.)  The total floor area in a joint living and work
quarters shall be arranged to comply with one of the following standards: 



 



   (a)   Tier 1 Standard - Low Percentage of Work Space.  At least ten
percent but no more than 25 percent of the total floor area in a joint living
and work quarters shall be work space; or



 



   (b)   Tier 2 Standard - Medium Percent-age of Work Space.  At least
25 percent but no more than 50 percent of the total floor area in a joint
living and work quarters shall be work space.



 



   10.   Single-Family Zone Hillside Area Development Standards. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 184,802, Eff. 3/17/17.)  Except as allowed by Section
12.24 F. and 14.00 A. of this Code, for any Lot zoned R1, RS, RE or RA and
designated Hillside Area on the Department of City Planning Hillside Area
Map, no Building or Structure nor the addition or Major Remodel-Hillside of
any Building or Structure shall be erected or maintained unless the following
development standards are provided and maintained in connection with the
Building, Structure, addition or remodel:



 




   (a)   Setback Requirements.  (Amended by Ord. No. 184,802, Eff.
3/17/17.)  No Building or Structure shall be erected, enlarged or undergo a
Major Remodel-Hillside unless the setbacks as outlined in Table 12.21 C.10-1
are provided and maintained in connection with the Building, Structure, or
enlargement.




 



 




Table 12.21 C.10-1
Single-Family Zone Hillside Area Setback Requirements






 

R1

 

RS

 

RE9

 

RE11

 

RE15

 

RE20

 

RE40

 

RA



Front Yard



   Not less than:

 

20% of Lot Depth




   Need not exceed:

 

20 ft

 

25 ft



Side Yard



   Not less than:

 

5 ft

 

7 ft

 

10% of Lot Width, but not less than 5 ft

 

10 ft




   Need not exceed:

 

n/a

 

10 ft

 

n/a




   The required Side Yard may be reduced to 10% of the Lot Width, but in
no event to less than 3 ft, where the Lot is less than the following widths:

 

50 ft

 

70 ft

 

n/a

 

70 ft*




   For Buildings or Structures with a height greater than 18 feet:

 

One additional foot shall be added to each required Side Yard for each
increment of 10 feet or fraction thereof above the first 18 feet.




   For Buildings or Structures that have a side wall exceeding 14 feet in
height and a continuous length greater than 45 feet:

 

An offset/ plane break shall be added that is a minimum depth of five feet
beyond the required yard and a minimum length of 10 feet.  For the purpose
of this Subdivision, height shall be measured from the existing or finished
grade, whichever is lower, at each point along the perimeter of the building.

 



Rear Yard



   Not less than:

 

15 ft

 

20 ft

 

25% of Lot Depth




   Need not exceed:

 

n/a

 

25 ft




ft - feet
n/a - the provision is not applicable
Lot Depth - as defined in Section 12.03 of this Code
Lot Width - as defined in Section 12.03 of this Code

Notes:
* Only applicable for Lots which are of record prior to July 1, 1966.




 










Figure 12.21 C.10.(a): Plane break diagram




 




   Notwithstanding the required yards, or setbacks, outlined in Table
12.21 C.10-1 above, or those exceptions found in Section 12.22 of this Code,
the following provisions shall apply:




 




   (1)   Prevailing Front Yard Setbacks.




 




   (i)   Where there are two or more developed Lots which have Front
Yards that vary in depth by not more than 10 feet, and such Lots comprise 40%
or more of the Frontage, then the minimum Front Yard depth shall be the
average depth of the Front Yards of such Lots.




 




   (ii)   Where there are two or more possible combinations of
developed Lots comprising 40% or more of the Frontage, and these Lots have
Front Yards that vary in depth by not more than 10 feet, then the minimum
Front Yard depth shall be the average depth of the Front Yards of that
combination which has the shallowest average depth.




 




   (iii)   In determining the required Front Yard, the following shall
not be taken into account:  Buildings located on key Lots, entirely on the
rear half of Lots, or on Lots in the “C” or “M” Zones.




 




   (iv)   Nothing contained in this Subparagraph (1) shall, however, be
deemed to require Front Yards which exceed 40 feet in depth or allow Front
Yards that are less than 5 feet in depth.  (Amended by Ord. No. 184,802,
Eff. 3/17/17.)




 




   (2)   Front Yard Setback on Lots Fronting on Substandard Hillside
Limited Street.  For any Lot that fronts on a Substandard Hillside Limited
Street, there shall be a minimum Front Yard setback of at least five feet. 
However, the prevailing Front Yard setback regulations, as outlined in
Subparagraph (1) of this Paragraph (a), shall apply, so long as a Front Yard
setback of no less than five feet is provided.




 




   (3)   Front Yard Setbacks on Key Lots.  (Amended by Ord. No.
184,802, Eff. 3/17/17.)  On Key Lots, the minimum Front Yard may be the
average of the required Front Yard for the adjoining Interior Lot and the
required Side Yard along the Street side of a Reversed Corner Lot.  But such
minimum Front Yard may apply for a distance of not more than 85 feet from the
rear Lot line of the Reversed Corner Lot, beyond which point the Front Yard
specified in Table 12.21 C.10-1 or Subparagraph (1) of this Paragraph (a)
shall apply.  Where existing Buildings on either or both of said adjoining
Lots are located nearer to the front or side Lot lines than the Yard required
by this Paragraph (a), the Yards established by such existing Buildings may
be used in computing the required Front Yard for a Key Lot, but may not be
less than 5 feet in depth.




 




   (4)   Front Yard Setbacks on Through Lots.  At each end of a
Through Lot, there shall be a Front Yard setback as required by this
Paragraph (a) for the zone in which each Street Frontage is located.  But
only one Front Yard need be provided on those Through Lots which abut on a
primary, Major or Secondary Highway, as such highways are shown on the
“Highways and Freeways Element of the General Plan”, when the rights to
vehicular ingress and egress from such Through Lots to the highways have been
abandoned or prohibited by a tract restriction.  Where only one Front Yard
is required on a Through Lot, as provided herein, the Rear Yard shall be
located on the portion of such Lot adjacent to the highway.




 




   Where a Through Lot is less than 150 feet in depth or is developed as a
single Building site, and the two required Front Yards are provided, no Rear
Yard is required.




 




   (5)   Front Yard Paving.  All portions of the required Front Yard
not used for necessary driveways and walkways, including decorative walkways,
shall be used for planting, and shall not otherwise be paved.




 




   (6)   Front Yard on Lots Existing Prior to June 1, 1946.  This
provision shall apply to any Lot of less than one acre which was of record or
held in separate ownership on June 1, 1946, or was subsequently created
either by the recording of a division of land map or otherwise in accordance
with the applicable zoning regulations.  On any such Lot, the originally
required Front Yard shall be provided and maintained in addition to any new
Front Yard required by any subsequent rearrangement of the Lot lines by sale
or division (without recording a subdivision map) creating a new Lot fronting
on a different Street than that on which the original Lot fronted.




 



   (7)   Occupied Rooftop Deck Setback.  (Added by Ord. No. 184,802,
Eff. 3/17/17.)  In the R1 Zone, any occupied rooftop deck shall be set back
at least 3 feet from the minimum required side yard.  This provision shall
not apply to any rooftop deck located on the street side of a Corner Lot.



 




   (8)   Side and Rear Yards for Basements.  (Renumbered by Ord. No.
184,802, Eff. 3/17/17.)  In determining the required Side and Rear Yards of
a Building, any Basement containing Habitable Rooms shall be considered a
Story.




 




   (9)   Yards in the Coastal Zone.  (Renumbered by Ord. No. 184,802,
Eff. 3/17/17.)  The following setback requirements shall apply to Lots
located in a Coastal Zone:




 




   (i)   On a Lot in the RE9 or RE11 Zone, there shall be a Side Yard
on each side of a main Building of not less than 5 feet.  Where the Lot is
less than 50 feet in width, the Side Yard may be reduced to 10% of the width
of the Lot, but in no event less than 3 feet.




 




   (ii)   In lieu of the additional Side Yard requirement in Table
12.21 C.10-1, for a Building more than two-stories in height on Lots in the
R1, RS, or RE Zone, one foot shall be added to the width of each required
Side Yard for each additional Story above the second Story.




 




   (iii)   On a Lot in the RA Zone, where a Side Yard is less than 10
feet in width, and the Building erected on the Lot is three or more Stories
in height, one foot shall be added to such Side Yard.




 




   (10)   Side Yards in Specific Plans, Historic Preservation Overlay
Zones or in Subdivision Approvals.  (Renumbered by Ord. No. 184,802, Eff.
3/17/17.)  Side Yard requirements in Specific Plans, Historic Preservation
Overlay Zones or in subdivision approvals shall take precedence over
requirements of this Subdivision 10.  Otherwise, this Subdivision shall
apply.




 




   (11)   Encroachments Into Required Yards.  (Renumbered by Ord. No.
184,802, Eff. 3/17/17.)  Every required Front, Side and Rear Yard shall be
open and unobstructed from the ground to the sky except for the following:




 




   (i)   Garages in Front Yards.  (Amended by Ord. No. 184,802, Eff.
3/17/17.)  A detached Private Garage may be located on the required Front
Yard of a Lot where the Elevation of the ground at a point 50 feet from the
front Lot line of a Lot and midway between the side Lot lines differs 10 feet
or more from the curb level, provided every portion of the garage Building is
at least 5 feet from the front Lot line.  Where the wall of such garage is
two-thirds below natural or finished Grade of the Lot, whichever is lower,
said wall may extend to the adjacent side Lot line; in all other cases, said
garage shall not be nearer to the side Lot line than the width of the Side
Yard required for a main Building of the same height.




 




   (ii)   Elevated Stairways, Porches, Platforms, Landing Places, or
Balconies.  (Amended by Ord. No. 184,802, Eff. 3/17/17.)  Balconies with 10
feet or more of vertical clearance beneath them may project or extend no more
than 30 inches into a Front Yard. Notwithstanding any other provisions of
this Code, on Lots fronting onto a Substandard Hillside Limited Street,
elevated stairways, porches, platforms and landing places shall not project
or extend into the Front Yard.




 




   (iii)   Other Exceptions.  All of those exceptions found in
Subdivision 5. of Subsection C. of Section 12.21 and in Section 12.22 of this
Code.




 




   (12)   Pools, Ponds, or Body of Water in Required Yards. 
(Renumbered by Ord. No. 184,802, Eff. 3/17/17.)  No swimming pool, fish pond
or other body of water which is designed or used to contain water 18 inches
or more in depth shall be permitted in any required Yard Space in which
fences over 42 inches in height are prohibited, even though the pool, pond or
body of water extends below the adjacent natural ground level.




 




   (13)   Zoning Administrator’s Authority.  (Renumbered by Ord. No.
184,802, Eff. 3/17/17.)  For Lots fronting on a Substandard Hillside Limited
Street, a Zoning Administrator may grant a reduction of the front Setback
requirements of Subparagraph (2) of this Paragraph and Side Yard requirements
in Table 12.21 C.10-1, pursuant to the authority and procedures established
in Subdivision 28. of Subsection X. of Section 12.24 of this Code; however,
in no event shall the Side Yard be less than 4 feet.




 




   (b)   Maximum Residential Floor Area.  (Amended by Ord. No.
184,802, Eff. 3/17/17.)  The maximum Residential Floor Area contained in all
Buildings and Accessory Buildings shall not exceed the sum of the square
footage of each Slope Band multiplied by the corresponding Residential Floor
Area Ratio (RFAR) for the zone of the Lot, as outlined in Table 12.21 C.10-2a
and Table 12.21 C.10-2b.  This formula can be found in Table 12.21 C.10-2c,
where "A" is the area of the Lot within each Slope Band, "RFAR" is the RFAR
of the corresponding Slope Band, and "RFA" is the sum of the Residential
Floor Area of each Slope Band.




 



 




Table 12.21 C.10-2a
Single-Family Zone Hillside Area Residential Floor Area Ratios (RFAR)




Slope Bands (%)

 

R1

 

RS

 

RE9

 

RE11

 

RE15

 

RE20

 

RE40

 

RA




0 - 14.99

 

0.45

 

0.45

 

0.40

 

0.40

 

0.35

 

0.35

 

0.35

 

0.25




15 - 29.99

 

0.45

 

0.40

 

0.35

 

0.35

 

0.30

 

0.30

 

0.30

 

0.20




30 - 44.99

 

0.40

 

0.35

 

0.30

 

0.30

 

0.25

 

0.25

 

0.25

 

0.15




45 - 59.99

 

0.35

 

0.30

 

0.25

 

0.25

 

0.20

 

0.20

 

0.20

 

0.10




60 - 99.99

 

0.30

 

0.25

 

0.20

 

0.20

 

0.15

 

0.15

 

0.15

 

0.05




100 +

 

0.00

 

0.00

 

0.00

 

0.00

 

0.00

 

0.00

 

0.00

 

0.00





 



 




Table 12.21 C.10-2b
Single-Family Zone Hillside Area Residential Floor Area Ratios (RFAR)




Slope Bands (%)

 

R1H1

 

R1H2

 

R1H3

 

R1H4




0 - 14.99

 

0.65

 

0.55

 

0.45

 

0.40




15 - 29.99

 

0.60

 

0.50

 

0.45

 

0.35




30 - 44.99

 

0.55

 

0.45

 

0.40

 

0.30




45 - 59.99

 

0.50

 

0.40

 

0.35

 

0.25




60 - 99.99

 

0.45

 

0.35

 

0.30

 

0.20




100 +

 

0.00

 

0.00

 

0.00

 

0.00





 



 




Table 12.21 C.10-2c
Hillside Area Maximum Residential Floor Area Formula




Slope Bands (%)

 

Area (sq ft)

 



 

RFAR

 



 

Residential Floor Area




0 - 14.99

 

A 1

 

X

 

RFAR 1

 

=

 

RFA 1




15 - 29.99

 

A 2

 

X

 

RFAR 2

 

=

 

RFA 2




30 - 44.99

 

A 3

 

X

 

RFAR 3

 

=

 

RFA 3




45 - 59.99

 

A 4

 

X

 

RFAR 4

 

=

 

RFA 4




60 - 99.99

 

A 5

 

X

 

RFAR 5

 

=

 

RFA 5




100 +

 

A 6

 

X

 

RFAR 6

 

=

 

RFA 6



Maximum Residential Floor Area
 

=

 

Sum of RFA 1 through RFA 6





 




   (1)   Slope Analysis Map.  As part of an application for a permit
to the Department of Building and Safety, or for a Discretionary Approval as
defined in Section 16.05 B. of this Code to the Department of City Planning,
the applicant shall submit a Slope Analysis Map based on a survey of the
natural/existing topography, prepared, stamped and signed by a registered
civil engineer or licensed land surveyor, to verify the total area (in square
feet) of the portions of a property within each Slope Band identified in
Table 12.21 C.10-2a.  The Director of Planning, or his/her designee, shall
verify that the Slope Analysis Map has been prepared by a registered civil
engineer or licensed land surveyor.  In addition, the Director of Planning,
or his/her designee shall approve the calculated Maximum Residential Floor
Area for the Lot by the registered civil engineer or licensed land surveyor
using the Slope Analysis Map prior to applying for a permit from the
Department of Building and Safety.




 




   The map shall have a scale of not less than 1 inch to 100 feet and a
contour interval of not more than 10 feet with 2-foot intermediates.  The
map shall also indicate the datum, source, and scale of topographic data used
in the Slope analysis, and shall attest to the fact that the Slope analysis
has been accurately calculated.




 




   The Slope Analysis Map shall clearly delineate/identify the Slope Bands
(i.e., with contrasting colors or hatching), and shall include a tabulation
of the total area in square feet within each Slope Band, as well as the RFAR
and Residential Floor Area value of each corresponding Slope Band as shown on
Table 12.21 C.10-2b.




 




   The Slope Analysis Map shall be prepared using CAD-based, GIS-based, or
other type of software specifically designed for such purpose.




 




   (2)   Guaranteed Minimum Residential Floor Area.  Notwithstanding
the above, the maximum Residential Floor Area for all Buildings and Accessory
Buildings on any Lot may be at least the percentage of the Lot size as
outlined in Table 12.21 C.10-3 below or 800 square feet, whichever is greater.




 



 




Table 12.21 C.10-3
Guaranteed Minimum Residential Floor Area




Zone

 

Percentage of Lot Size




R1

 

25%




RS

 

23%




RE9

 

20%




RE11

 

20%




RE15

 

18%




RE20

 

18%




RE40

 

18%




RA

 

13%





 



   The guaranteed minimum for the original zone as stated in the paragraph
above may apply to any Lot in place of the maximum Residential Floor Area
calculation in Tables 12.21 C.10-2a and 12.21 C.10-2b.  In addition, in the
event that a Lot has an area that is less than 50 percent of the minimum Lot
size for its Zone, was made nonconforming in Lot size as a result of an
adopted zone change or code amendment changing the minimum Lot size, and met
the minimum Lot size requirements of the original zone, the guaranteed
minimum for the original zone as stated in this Subparagraph shall apply.



 



   (3)   Residential Floor Area Bonus for RA, RE and RS Zones.  An
additional 20 percent of the maximum Residential Floor Area as determined by
Table 12.21 C.10-2 of this Paragraph (b), or an additional 30 percent for
Lots where the guaranteed minimum outlined in Subparagraph (2) of this
Paragraph (b) is utilized, for that Lot shall be allowed if any of the
options listed below is utilized.  Only one bonus per property is allowed.



 



   (i)   Proportional Stories Option.  The total Residential Floor
Area of each Story other than the Base Floor in a multi-Story Building does
not exceed 75 percent of the Base Floor Area.  This option shall only apply
to flat Building pads where the Slope of the Building pad area prior to any
Grading, as measured from the highest and lowest Elevation points of the
existing Grade within five horizontal feet of the exterior walls of the
proposed Building or Structure, is less than 15 percent; or



 



   (ii)   Front Facade Stepback Option.  The cumulative length of the
exterior walls which are not a part of a garage facing the Front Lot Line,
equal to a minimum of 25% of the Building width, shall be stepped-back a
distance of at least 20% of the Building depth from a plane parallel to the
Lot width established at the point of the Building closest to the Front Lot
line.  When the Front Lot line is not straight, a line connecting the points
where the Side Lot lines and the Front Lot line intersect shall be used to
establish the plane parallel to the front Lot width.  When Through Lots
have, or are required to provide, two Front Yard setbacks, the step-back
shall be provided along both Front Lot Lines.  When referred by the
Department of Building and Safety due to unusual Building and/or Lot
configuration, the Director of Planning or his/her designee shall determine
that the proposed project complies with this provision and qualifies for a
Residential Floor Area bonus.



 



   For the purposes of this provision, all exterior walls that intersect a
plane parallel to the Front Lot Line at 45 degrees or less shall be
considered to be facing the Front Lot Line.  The Building width shall be the
greatest distance between the exterior walls of the Building measured
parallel to the Lot width.  The Building depth shall be the greatest
distance between the exterior walls of the Building measured parallel to the
Lot depth.



 



   This option shall only apply to Structures which are no within 35 feet
of the Frontage along an improved Street and on a "flat" Building pad where
the Slope of the Building pad prior to any Grading, as measured from the
highest point of the existing Grade within five horizontal feet of the
exterior wall of the proposed Building or Structure to the lowest point of
the existing natural Grade within five horizontal feet, is less than 15%; or



 



   (iii)   Cumulative Side Yard Setbacks Option.  The combined width
of Side Yards shall be at least 25% of the total Lot Width, as defined in
Section 12.03 of this Code, but in no event shall a single Side Yard setback
be less than 10% of the Lot Width or the minimum required by Paragraph (a) of
this Subdivision, whichever is greater.  One (1) foot shall be added to each
required Side Yard for each increment of 10 feet or fraction thereof of
height above the first 18 feet of height.  The width of a required Side Yard
setback shall be maintained for the entire length of a Side Yard and cannot
alternate from one Side Yard to the other; or



 



   (iv)   18-Foot Envelope Height Option.  For properties which are
not in the "1SS" Single-Story Height District, the maximum envelope height,
measured pursuant to Subparagraph (1) of Paragraph (d) of this Subdivision
10, shall be no more than 18 feet; or



 



   (v)   Multiple Buildings Option.  In addition to the Lot coverage
requirements in Paragraph (e) of this Subdivision, any one Building and
Structure extending more than 6 feet above Hillside Area Grade, as defined in
Section 12.03 of this Code, shall cover no more than 20% of the area of a
Lot.  Such Buildings or Structures may only be connected by one breezeway,
fully enclosed walkway, elevator, or combination thereof of not more than 5
feet in width; or



 



   (vi)   Minimal Grading Option.  For properties where at least 60%
of the Lot is comprised of Slopes which are 30% or greater, as determined by
a Slope Analysis Map prepared in accordance with Subparagraph (1) of this
Paragraph (b), the total amount of any Grading on the site [including
exempted Grading, as outlined in Paragraph (f) of this Subdivision (10)] does
not exceed the numeric value of 10% of the total Lot size in cubic yards or
1,000 cubic yards, whichever is less (example:  a project involving 500
cubic-yards of Grading on a 5,000 square-foot Lot will be eligible for this
bonus option).



 



   (4)   Zoning Administrator's Authority.



 



   (i)   10% Adjustments.  The Zoning Administrator has the authority
to grant adjustments from the requirements of this Paragraph (b) of not more
than 10%, pursuant to the authority and procedures established in Subsection
A. of Section 12.28 of this Code.



 



   (ii)   Residential Floor Area Added to Lots with Existing Buildings
Built Prior to August 1, 2010.  The Zoning Administrator has the authority
to approve construction that adds Residential Floor Area, in excess of the
maximum Residential Floor Area provided in Paragraph (b) of this Section, to
a lot that includes a main Building that existed prior to August 1, 2010, and
for which permits were previously obtained, pursuant to the authority and
procedures established in Subdivision 28. of Subsection X. of Section 12.24
of this Code, provided:



 



   a.   the total cumulative Residential Floor Area of all such
additions does not exceed 1,000 square feet; and



 



   b.   the resulting Building does not exceed the height of the
original Building or the height permitted in Paragraph (d) of this
Subdivision 10. below, whichever is greater; and



 



   c.   at least two off-street covered parking spaces are provided.



 




   (c)   Verification of Existing Residential Floor Area.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 184,802, Eff. 3/17/17.)  For additions with cumulative Residential
Floor Area of less than 1,000 square feet constructed after August 1, 2010,
or remodels of Buildings built prior to August 1, 2010, the existing
Residential Floor Area shall be determined based on the building records or
the Building square footage shown on the most recent Los Angeles County Tax
Assessor's records at the time the plans are submitted to the Department of
Building and Safety and a plan check fee is paid.  Except that Residential
Floor Area may be calculated as defined in Section 12.03 of this Code when a
complete set of fully dimensioned plans with area calculations of all the
Structures on the Lot, prepared by a licensed architect or engineer, is
submitted by the applicant.




 




   Any work that does not qualify as a remodel, as defined in the
paragraph below, or additions that are 1,000 square feet or larger shall
require a complete set of fully dimensioned plans with area calculations of
all the Structures on the Lot prepared by a licensed architect or engineer.




 




   For the purposes of implementing this Paragraph (c), a remodel shall
mean the alteration of an existing Building or Structure, provided that at
least 50 percent of the perimeter length of the contiguous exterior walls and
50 percent of the roof are retained.




 




   (d)   Height Limits.  No portion of a Building or Structure shall
be erected or enlarged which exceeds the envelope height limits as outlined
in Table 12.21 C.10-4, or as otherwise stated in the paragraphs below.  For
the provisions below, whenever Grade is mentioned, it shall mean Hillside
Area Grade as defined in Section 12.03 of this Code.




 



 




Table 12.21 C.10-4
Maximum Height of Structures (in feet)




Height Districts

 

R1

 

RS

 

RE9

 

RE11

 

RE15

 

RE20

 

RE40

 

RA



When the roof of the uppermost Story of a Building or Structure or portion
thereof has a Slope of 25% or greater, the maximum height for said portion of
Building or Structure thereof shall be as follows:



1, 1L, & 1VL

 

33

 

33

 

33

 

36

 

36

 

36

 

36

 

36




1XL

 

30

 

30

 

30

 

30

 

30

 

30

 

30

 

30




1SS

 

22

 

22

 

22

 

22

 

22

 

22

 

22

 

22



When the roof of the uppermost Story of a Building or Structure or portion
thereof has a Slope of less than 25%, the maximum height for said portion of
Building or Structure thereof shall be as follows:



1, 1L, & 1VL

 

28

 

28

 

28

 

30

 

30

 

30

 

30

 

30




1XL

 

28

 

28

 

28

 

30

 

30

 

30

 

30

 

30




1SS

 

18

 

18

 

18

 

18

 

18

 

18

 

18

 

18





 



   (1)   Measurement of Height.  (Amended by Ord. No. 184,802, Eff.
3/17/17.)  Notwithstanding any other provision in this Code, the height
limits in Table 12.21 C.10-4 shall be measured as set forth below.



 




   (i)   Maximum Envelope Height.  Envelope height (otherwise known as
vertical height or "plumb line" height) shall be the vertical distance from
the Hillside Area Grade to a projected plane at the roof Structure or parapet
wall located directly above and parallel to the Grade.  Measurement of the
envelope height shall originate at the adjacent Hillside Area Grade at the
exterior walls of a Building or Structure.  At no point shall any given
section of any part of the proposed Building or Structure exceed the maximum
envelope height.




 










Figure 12.21 C.10.(d)(1)(i):
Maximum Envelope Height diagram




 




   (ii)   Encroachment Plane.  In the R1 Zone, the encroachment plane
shall originate from a point that is 20 feet in height from the existing or
finished grade, whichever is lower, along the required front and side yard
setbacks.




 




   (iii)   A topographic map shall be submitted as a separate plan
sheet or as part of the site plan identifying the perimeter of the exterior
walls, or any other information which the Department of Building and Safety
deems necessary to determine compliance with this Paragraph.




 




   (2)   Zoning Administrator’s Authority.  A Zoning Administrator
may allow Structures which exceed the maximum envelope height requirements of
Subparagraph (1) of this Paragraph (d); however, the increase in height may
not result in a Building or Structure which exceeds an overall height of 45
feet, pursuant to the authority and procedures established in Subdivision 28.
of Subsection X. of Section 12.24 of this Code.  The overall height shall be
measured from the lowest Elevation point within 5 horizontal feet of the
exterior walls of a Building or Structure to the highest Elevation point of
the roof Structure or parapet wall.




 




   (3)   Prevailing Height.  Notwithstanding Table 12.21 C.10-4 of
this Paragraph (d), when 40% or more of the existing One-Family Dwellings
with Frontage on both sides of the block have Building heights exceeding
these limits, the maximum envelope height for any Building on that block may
be the average height of the Dwellings exceeding these limits.




 




   (4)   Lots in a Single-Story Height District.  As enabled by
Section 12.21.1 A.1. of this Code, on Lots in a “SS” Single Story Height
District, shown as “1SS” on a Zoning Map, no Building or Structure shall
be erected or enlarged which exceeds one Story.




 




   Notwithstanding the provision in Section 12.21.1 A.8., in determining
the number of Stories, any Basement which is exempt from the Residential
Floor Area calculation, as outlined in Section 12.03 of this Code, shall not
be considered a Story.




 




   (5)   Lots Fronting on Substandard Hillside Limited Streets. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 184,802, Eff. 3/17/17.)  For any Lot fronting onto a
Substandard Hillside Limited Street, as defined in Section 12.03, no portion
of a Building or Structure within 20 feet of the Front Lot Line shall exceed
24 feet in height.  The 24-foot maximum Building and Structure height shall
be measured from the Elevation at the centerline or midpoint of the Street on
which the Lot fronts.




 




   (6)   Unenclosed/Uncovered Cantilevered Balconies.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 184,802, Eff. 3/17/17.) Unenclosed/uncovered cantilevered balconies
and "visually permeable railing" (no more than 42 inches in height), may
project no more than 5 horizontal feet beyond the maximum envelope height, as
limited and measured in Subparagraph (1) of this Paragraph (d).




 




   For the purposes of this Subparagraph (6), "visually permeable railing"
means railing constructed of material that is transparent, such as glass or
plastic panels, or wrought iron or other solid material which is 80 percent
open to light and air.




 




   (7)   Roof Structures.  Roof Structures as described in Table 12.21
C.10-5 below, or similar Structures, may be erected above the height limit
specified in Table 12.21 C.10-4.




 



 




Table 12.21 C.10-5
Projecting Roof Structures
(Amended by Ord. No. 182,110, Eff. 5/29/12.)




Roof Structures

 

Projection Above Height Limit

 

Setback from Roof Perimeter




Elevator Housing

 

No more than 5 feet

 

Not less than 5 feet




Tanks




Ventilating Fans or similar equipment required to operate and maintain the
Building.




Skylights, covering up to 33 1/3% of the roof area upon which the skylight is
constructed.




Towers




Steeples




Flagpoles




Smokestacks




Wireless Masts




Water Tanks




Silos




Structures Solely Supporting Solar Energy Systems

 

See Section 12.21.1 B.3.(c)

 

See Section 12.21.1 B.3.(c)




Chimneys

 

No more than 5 feet

 

None




Exhaust Ducts/Ventilation Shafts




Stairway Housing, no larger than 36 square feet.




Skylights, covering more than 33 1/3% of the roof area upon which the
skylight is constructed.

 

No more than 30 inches




*Solar energy systems as defined by California Civil Code Section 801.5 are
exempt per California Government Code Section 65850.5





 




   No roof Structure or any other space above the height limit specified
in Table 12.21 C.10-4 shall be allowed for the purpose of providing
additional floor space.




 




   (8)   Specific Plans, Historic Preservation Overlay Zones or
Subdivision Approvals.  Height limitations in Specific Plans, Historic
Preservation Overlay Zones or in subdivision approvals shall take precedence
over the requirements of this Section 12.21.  Otherwise, this Section 12.21
shall apply.




 




   (e)   Lot Coverage.  Buildings and Structures extending more than 6
feet above natural ground level shall cover no more than 40% of the area of a
Lot.




 




   (1)   Lot Coverage on Substandard Lots.  Notwithstanding Paragraph
(e) above, for a Lot which is substandard as to width (less than 50 feet) and
as to area (less than 5,000 square feet), Buildings and Structures shall
cover no more than 45% of the area of a Lot.




 




   (2)   Zoning Administrator’s Authority.  A Zoning Administrator
may grant limited deviations from these requirements, pursuant to the
authority and procedures established in Subdivision 28. of Subsection X. of
Section 12.24 of this Code.




 



   (f)   Grading.  (Amended by Ord. No. 184,802, Eff. 3/17/17.) 
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Code, total Grading (Cut and
Fill) on a Lot shall be limited as outlined below.  No Grading permits shall
be issued until a Building permit is approved.



 




   (1)   Maximum Grading Quantities.  The cumulative quantity of
Grading, or the total combined value of both Cut and Fill or incremental Cut
and Fill, for any one property shall be limited to a base maximum of 1,000
cubic yards plus the numeric value equal to 10% of the total Lot size in
cubic yards.  Example: a 5,000 square-foot Lot would have a maximum Grading
amount of 1,500 cubic yards (1,000 cubic yards for the base amount + 500
cubic yards for the 10% calculation).




 




   However, the cumulative quantity of Grading shall not exceed the
maximum "by-right" Grading quantities outlined by Zone in Table 12.21 C.10-6
below.




 



 




Table 12.21 C.10-6
Maximum “By-Right” Grading Quantities





Zone

 

Maximum Grading
(cubic yards)




R1

 

1,000




RS

 

2,200




RE9

 

2,400




RE11

 

2,800




RE15

 

3,200




RE20

 

4,000




RE40

 

6,600




RA

 

3,600





 




   (2)   Import/Export Limits.  Earth import and export activities may
take place only between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m., Monday through
Friday.  The maximum quantity of earth import or export shall be limited to
the following quantities:




 



   (i)   Lots Fronting on Standard Hillside Limited Streets or
Larger.  For a property which fronts onto a Standard Hillside Limited Street
or larger, as defined in Section 12.03 of this Code, the maximum quantity of
earth import and export combined shall be no more than the maximum "by-right"
grading quantities as listed in Table 12.21 C.10-6 above.



 



   (ii)   Lots Fronting on Substandard Hillside Limited Streets.  For
a property which fronts onto a Substandard Hillside Limited Street, as
defined in Section 12.03 of this Code, the maximum quantity of earth import
and export combined shall be no more than 75 percent of the maximum
"by-right" grading quantities as listed in Table 12.21 C.10-6 above.



 



   (iii)   Exempted On-Site Grading Activity.  Earth quantities which
originate from, or will be utilized for any exempted Grading activity listed
in Subparagraph (3) of this Paragraph (f) shall be exempted from the maximum
import and export quantities set forth in this Paragraph (f).  A plan
indicating the destination and/or source (i.e., exempted Grading activity or
non-exempted Grading activity) of any import and/or export shall be submitted
as part of a Grading permit application.



 




   (3)   Exemptions.  The Grading activities outlined in the
sub-subparagraphs below shall be exempt from the Grading and/or earth
transport limitations established in Subparagraphs (1) and (2) of this
Paragraph (f).  However, any excavation from an exempted activity being used
as Fill, outside of a 5-foot perimeter from the exempted Grading activities,
for any other on-site purpose shall be counted towards the limits established
in Subparagraph (1) of this Paragraph (f).




 



   (i)   Cut and/or Fill for deepened foundation systems (such as
caissons and piles), water storage tanks, required stormwater retention
improvements, and required animal keeping site development that do not
involve the construction of any freestanding retaining walls.



 



   (ii)   Cut and/or Fill, up to 500 cubic yards, for driveways to the
required parking or fire department turnaround closest to the accessible
Street for which a Lot has ingress/egress rights.



 



   (iii)   Remedial Grading as defined in Section 12.03 of this Code as
recommended in a Geotechnical Investigation Report, prepared in accordance
with Sections 91.7006.2, 91.7006.3 and 91.7006.4 of this Code, and approved
by the Department of Building and Safety - Grading Division.



 



   (iv)   Fill resulting from Cut underneath the footprint of the main
Building, not to exceed 50 percent of said Cut.



 




   (4)   Zoning Administrator's Authority.  A Zoning Administrator may
grant the following deviations from the requirements of Subparagraphs (1) and
(2) of this Paragraph (f), pursuant to the authority and procedures
established in Subdivision 28. of Subsection X. of Section 12.24 of this Code.




 



   (i)   Grading in excess of the maximum "by-right" Grading quantities
listed in Subparagraph (1) of this Paragraph (f), but in no event shall the
quantities exceed the true value of 1,000 cubic yards plus the numeric value
equal to 10% of the total Lot size in cubic yards.



 



   (ii)   For a property which fronts onto a Standard Hillside Limited
Street or larger, as defined in Section 12.03 of this Code, increase the
maximum quantity of earth import and export combined greater than the maximum
"by-right" grading quantities  as listed in Table 12.21 C.10-6, up to the
amount calculated pursuant to Subparagraph (1) of this Paragraph (f).



 



   For a property which fronts onto a Substandard Hillside Limited Street,
as defined in Section 12.03 of this Code, increase the maximum quantity of
earth import and export combined greater than 75 percent of the maximum
"by-right" grading quantities as listed in Table 12.21 C.10-6, up to the
amount calculated pursuant to Subparagraph (1) of this Paragraph (f).



 




   (5)   New Graded Slopes.  All new Graded Slopes shall be no steeper
than 2:1 (horizontal:vertical), except when the Department of Building and
Safety - Grading Division has determined that Slopes may exceed 2:1 pursuant
to Section 91.105 of this Code.




 




   (6)   Grading Activity on 100% Slopes.  Notwithstanding the
Grading, Excavations and Fills provisions in Chapter IX of this Code (the Los
Angeles Building Code), when any Grading activity is proposed on any slope of
100 percent or greater, as identified on the Slope Analysis Map, the
Department of Building and Safety - Grading Division shall require the
Geotechnical Investigation Report (also referred to as a soils and/or
geological report) to include the most stringent level of geotechnical
analysis and reporting feasible, and in sufficient detail to substantiate and
support the design and construction methods being proposed.




 




   A Deputy Grading Inspector, also referred to as a Registered (Licensed)
Deputy Inspector, paid for by the owner, will be required to be on site when
said Grading activity is being conducted in order to ensure that all work is
being done in accordance with the recommendations of the Geotechnical Report,
the approved plans, and/or the applicable Grading requirements of the Los
Angeles Building Code for applicable Grading or foundation earthwork in
Hillside Areas.




 




   (7)   Grading Plan Check Criteria.  Grading plans and reports shall
be submitted for approval with Building plans, and shall include those items
required by Section 91.7006 of this Code.




 




   (g)   Off-Street Parking Requirements.  Notwithstanding those
exceptions found in Section 12.22 of this Code, no Building or Grading permit
shall be issued for the construction of any One-Family Dwelling, Accessory
Building, or addition thereto, unless the following requirements are met.




 




   (1)   Number of Required Covered Spaces.  There shall be at least
two Automobile Parking Spaces on the same Lot with each One-Family Dwelling
thereon.  These required parking spaces shall be provided within a Private
Garage.  These required parking spaces shall not be provided or maintained
within a required Front Yard, unless otherwise permitted by Subparagraph (10)
of Paragraph (a) of this Subdivision 10.




 




   (i)   Exception for Dwelling on Narrow Lot.  Where only one
One-Family Dwelling is located on a nonconforming Lot 40 feet or less in
width and not abutting an alley, only one Automobile Parking Space need be
provided.  This exception shall not apply to any Lot which fronts on a
Substandard Hillside Limited Street.




 




   (2)   Additional Required Spaces.  (Amended by Ord. No. 184,802,
Eff. 3/17/17.)  For a main Building and any Accessory Building located on a
Lot which fronts on a Substandard Hillside Limited Street, excluding Floor
Area devoted to required parking, which exceed a combined Residential Floor
Area of 2,400 square feet, there shall be one additional parking space
provided for each additional increment of 1,000 square feet or fraction
thereof of Floor Area for a maximum of five total on-site spaces.  These
additional required parking spaces are not required to be covered. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Subparagraph (1) of this Paragraph (g),
when a Lot fronts onto a Substandard Hillside Limited Street, the additional
parking spaces may be located within the required Front Yard.




 




   (i)   Zoning Administrator’s Authority.  A Zoning Administrator
may reduce the number of off-street parking spaces required by Subparagraph
(2) of this Paragraph (g), pursuant to the authority and procedures
established in Subdivision 28. of Subsection X. of Section 12.24 of this Code.




 




   (3)   Parking Stall Dimensions.  In each parking area or garage
devoted to parking for Dwelling uses, all Parking Stalls in excess of one per
Dwelling Unit may be designed as compact stalls to accommodate parking
cars.  Every standard Parking Stall provided for Dwelling Units shall be at
least 8 feet 6 inches in width and 18 feet in length; every compact stall
shall be at least 7 feet 6 inches in width and 15 feet in length.




 




   (4)   Tandem Parking.  Automobile parking may be parked in tandem
in a Private Garage or Private Parking Area serving a One-Family Dwelling
where the tandem parking is not more than two cars in depth.  Each required
Parking Stall within a parking area or garage shall be accessible.  Tandem
parking shall not be allowed in parking areas for recreational vehicles.




 




   (5)   Garage Doors.  Any door or doors installed at the automobile
entry to a garage serving a One-Family Dwelling where the required parking
spaces are located shall be of conventional design constructed so as to
permit the simultaneous entry of automobiles in each required parking space
without damaging the door or door frame and constructed so as to permit the
flow of air through the automobile entry when the door is in the fully closed
position.




 




   (6)   Driveway Width.  Every access driveway shall be at least 9
feet in width.




 




   (7)   Mechanical Automobile Lifts and Robotic Parking Structures. 
The stacking of two or more automobiles via a mechanical car lift or
computerized parking Structure is permitted.  The platform of the mechanical
lift on which the automobile is first placed shall be individually and easily
accessible and shall be placed so that the location of the platform and
vehicular access to the platform meet the requirements of Paragraphs (a),
(b), and (i) of Subdivision 5. of Subsection A. of Section 12.21 of this
Code.  The lift equipment or computerized parking Structure shall meet any
applicable Building, Mechanical and Electrical Code requirements as approved
by the Department of Building and Safety.




 




   (h)   Fire Protection.  Notwithstanding any other provisions of
this Code to the contrary, on a Lot fronting onto a Substandard Hillside
Limited Street, or on any Lot located either more than 2 miles from a fire
station housing a Los Angeles City Fire Department Truck Company or more than
1 1/2 miles from a fire station housing a Los Angeles Fire Department Engine
Company, the following fire protection measures shall be required.




 




   (1)   New Buildings or Structures.  Any new construction of a
One-Family Dwelling or detached Accessory Building shall be protected
throughout with an approved automatic fire sprinkler system, in compliance
with the Los Angeles Plumbing Code.




 




   (2)   Existing Buildings or Structures.  An approved automatic fire
sprinkler system in compliance with the Los Angeles Plumbing Code shall be
installed:




 




   (i)   whenever an addition to an existing One-Family Dwelling or
Accessory Building increases Residential Floor Area by 50% or more of the
area of the existing Dwelling or Building; or




 




   (ii)   whenever the aggregate value of Major Remodels within a
one-year period exceeds 50% of the replacement cost of the Dwelling or
Accessory Building.




 




   (3)   Fire Sprinkler Coverage.  The sprinkler systems required in
this Paragraph shall be sufficient to cover the entire Dwelling or Building,
unless otherwise determined by the Department of Building and Safety, and
shall be installed in compliance with all applicable Codes.




 




   (4)   Exempt Accessory Structures.  The provisions of this
Paragraph shall not apply to accessory Structures such as gazebos, pergolas,
or storage sheds provided these Structures are not supported by or attached
to any portion of a Dwelling or Accessory Building and do not exceed 200
square feet in area.




 




   (i)   Street Access.




 




   (1)   Street Dedication.  For any new construction of, or addition
to, a One-Family Dwelling on a Lot fronting on a Substandard Hillside Limited
Street, no Building permit or Grading permit shall be issued unless at least
one-half of the width of the Street(s) has been dedicated for the full width
of the Frontage of the Lot to Standard Hillside Limited Street dimensions or
to a lesser width as determined by the City Engineer.  The appellate
procedures provided in Section 12.37 I. of this Code shall be available for
relief from this requirement.




 




   (2)   Adjacent Minimum Roadway Width.  For any new construction of,
or addition to a One-Family Dwelling on a Lot fronting on a Substandard
Hillside Limited Street that is improved with a roadway width of less than 20
feet, no Building permit or Grading permit shall be issued unless the
construction or addition has been approved pursuant to Section 12.24 X.28. of
this Code.




 




   (3)   Minimum Roadway Width (Continuous Paved Roadway).  For any
new construction of, or addition to, a One-Family Dwelling on a Lot that does
not have a vehicular access route from a Street improved with a minimum
20-foot wide continuous paved roadway from the driveway apron that provides
access to the main residence to the boundary of the Hillside Area, no
Building permit or Grading permit shall be issued unless the construction or
addition meets the requirements of this Subdivision 10. or has been approved
by a Zoning Administrator pursuant to Section 12.24 X.28. of this Code.




 




   (j)   Sewer Connection.  No Building permit shall be issued for the
construction of any new One-Family Dwelling on a Lot located 200 feet or less
from a sewer mainline unless a sewer connection is provided to the
satisfaction of the City Engineer.




 




   (k)   Hillside Standards Overlay Districts.  The provisions of
Paragraphs (b) (Maximum Residential Floor Area), (d) (Height Limits), and (f)
(Grading) of this Subdivision 10. may be superseded by a Hillside
Neighborhood Overlay adopted pursuant to Section 13.14 of this Code.




 




   (l)   Exceptions.  The provision of this Subdivision shall not
apply to:




 




   (1)   Tracts With CC&Rs Approved After February 1, 1985. One-Family
Dwellings, Accessory Buildings and additions thereto within a subdivision for
which a tentative or final tract map was approved by the City of Los Angeles
after February 1, 1985, and is still valid, provided that the map resulted in
the establishment of covenants, conditions and restrictions governing
Building height, yards, open space or Lot coverage, and provided, further,
that such covenants, conditions and restrictions were recorded on or after
February 1, 1985.




 



   (2)   Residential Floor Area Added to Lots with Existing Buildings
Built Prior to August 1, 2010.  (Amended by Ord. No. 184,802, Eff.
3/17/17.)  Any construction that adds Residential Floor Area, in excess of
the maximum Residential Floor Area provided in Paragraph (b) of this Section,
to a lot that includes a main Building that existed prior to August 1, 2010,
and for which permits were previously obtained, provided that:



 




   (i)   the total cumulative Residential Floor Area of all such
additions does not exceed 500 square feet (excluded from calculations of this
500 square foot limitations is Floor Area devoted to required covered
parking); and




 




   (ii)   the resulting Building complies with the requirements of
Paragraphs (a) (Setback Requirements), (d) (Height Limits) and (f) (Grading)
of this Subdivision 10.




 




   (3)   Hillside Major Remodel.  As defined in Section 12.03 of this
Code, any remodeling of a main Building on a Lot in the Hillside Area, which
does not add square footage and for which the aggregate value of all the
alterations within a one-year period does not exceed 50% of the replacement
cost of the main Building.




 




   (4)   Northeast Los Angeles Hillside Ordinance.  Properties subject
to the Northeast Los Angeles Hillside Ordinance established by Ordinance No.
180,403, shall be exempted from Paragraphs (b) (Maximum Residential Floor
Area), (d) (Height Limits), and (f) (Grading) of this Subdivision 10.




 




   (5)   The Oaks Hillside Ordinance.  Properties subject to The Oaks
Hillside Ordinance established by Ordinance No. 181,136, shall be exempted
from Paragraphs (b) (Maximum Residential Floor Area), (d) (Height Limits),
and (e) (Lot Coverage) of this Subdivision 10.




 




   (6)   Large Active Remedial Grading Projects.  (Amended by Ord. No.
184,802, Eff. 3/17/17.)  Properties with active Remedial Grading Permits for
100,000 cubic yards or more which have been issued by the Department of
Building and Safety-Grading Division before July 1, 2010, are exempt from
Paragraphs (b) (Maximum Residential Floor Area), (d) (Height Limits) and (f)
(Grading) of this Subdivision.  Such properties shall remain subject to the
provisions of Subdivision 17. of Subsection A. of Section 12.21 of this Code,
and all other zoning and Building regulations applicable at the time Building
Permits are issued.  This exception shall expire 85 months after July 1,
2010.




 



   D.   Location Of Hospitals.  No hospital, sanitarium or clinic for
mental, or drug or liquor addict cases shall be established or maintained on
any property within 600 feet of the property on which an elementary or high
school is being maintained.



 



   E.   Use Of Future Streets And Alleys. (Added by Ord. No. 129,499,
Eff. 3/28/65.)  No building or structure, except a fence, shall be erected
or maintained on any portion of a lot which has been designated as a future
street or alley, as provided for in Article 7 hereof, nor shall any portion
of said future street or future alley be used in providing minimum off-street
parking required by this section.



 



   F.   On-Site Shopping Cart Containment.  (Added by Ord. No.
182,121, Eff. 6/20/12.)



 



   1.   Purpose.  It is the purpose of this subsection to prevent or
reduce the accumulation of shopping carts abandoned in neighborhoods. 
Abandoned shopping carts cause visual blight in neighborhoods, reduce
property values in communities, obstruct pedestrian and vehicular traffic in
the public rights-of-way, and constitute a hazard to the health, safety, and
general welfare of the public throughout the City of Los Angeles. 
Therefore, development standards are established for projects involving any
new retail establishment, or the major remodel of a retail establishment,
that provide six or more shopping carts on-site for use by its patrons.



 



   2.   Definitions.  Notwithstanding any provisions of this Code to
the contrary, the following definitions shall apply to this subsection:



 



   (a)   Abandoned Shopping Cart.  A shopping cart located beyond the
premises of a retail establishment that furnishes shopping carts for use by
its patrons.



 



   (b)   Bollard.  An upright post consisting of a piece of timber,
concrete, metal or similar material fixed firmly in an upright position that
creates a narrowed passageway restricting the removal of shopping carts from
the premises.



 



   (c)   Bureau of Sanitation.  The Bureau of Sanitation of the
Department of Public Works or successor agency.  (Amended by Ord. No.
182,571, Eff. 7/16/13.)



 



   (d)   Major Remodel.  A major remodel is either:



 



   (1)   An addition in excess of 50 percent of the current floor area
of a retail establishment that provides at least six or more shopping carts
for its patrons, or



 



   (2)   An alteration, repair, remodel, or addition with a total
building permit valuation in excess of 50 percent of the replacement cost of
a building, or portion of a building, occupied by a retail establishment that
provides at least six or more shopping carts for its patrons.



 



   (e)   Parking Area.  The parking lot or other property provided by
a retail establishment for use by its patrons for parking automobiles or
other vehicles.



 



   (f)   Premises.  The area maintained or managed by a retail
establishment that provides at least six or more shopping carts for its
patrons, including the building, parking area, and adjacent walkways.



 



   (g)   Project.  A new retail establishment, or the major remodel of
a retail establishment, that provides or maintains at least six or more
shopping carts for use by its patrons.



 



   (h)   Shopping Cart.  A basket of any size, mounted on wheels,
rollers or a similar device, including parts, provided by a retail
establishment for the purpose of transporting groceries or merchandise of any
kind within a retail establishment or parking area of that retail
establishment.



 



   3.   Application.  (Renumbered by Ord. No. 182,571, Eff.
7/16/13.)  The development standards and containment methods set forth
herein to contain shopping carts on premises shall apply to  new retail
establishments, or the major remodel of retail establishments, after the
effective date of this ordinance.



 



   4.   Containment Methods.  (Renumbered by Ord. No. 182,571, Eff.
7/16/13.)  A project shall include at least one of the permitted methods to
contain shopping carts on the premises.  Permitted methods are limited to:



 



   (a)   Bollards.  Installation of bollards;



 



   (b)   Wheel Locking or Stopping Mechanisms.  Equipping shopping
carts with a wheel locking or stopping mechanism that is used in conjunction
with an electronic magnetic barrier along the perimeter of the retail
establishment.  The wheel locking or stopping mechanism must activate when
the shopping cart crosses the electronic or magnetic barrier;



 



   (c)   Customer Service.  Designation of certain employees to
prevent the removal of shopping carts from the premises by assisting patrons
with transporting groceries or merchandise to patrons' vehicles and then
returning shopping carts to the location where the retail establishment keeps
the shopping carts for its patrons;



 



   (d)   Other Methods.  Other methods for onsite containment so long
as the Bureau of Street Services has approved the system or method which
would effectively contain or control shopping carts on the premises.



 



   5.   Enforcement.  (Renumbered and Amended by Ord. No. 182,571,
Eff. 7/16/13.)  Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 12.26 of this
Code, the Bureau of Sanitation shall have the authority and responsibility to
enforce this subsection.



 



   G.   Open Space Requirement for Six or More Residential Units. 
(Added by Ord. No. 171,753, Eff. 11/17/97.)



 



   1.   Purpose.  It is the purpose of this subsection to establish
reasonable and uniform regulations to provide usable open space as a means to
fulfill the following objectives: afford occupants of multiple residential
dwelling units opportunities for outdoor living and recreation; provide safer
play areas for children as an alternative to the surrounding streets, parking
areas, and alleys; improve the aesthetic quality of multiple residential
dwelling units by providing relief to the massing of buildings through the
use of landscape materials and reduced lot coverage; and provide a more
desirable living environment for occupants of multiple residential dwelling
units by increasing natural light and ventilation, improving pedestrian
circulation and providing access to on-site recreation facilities.



 



   2.   Regulations.  New construction (resulting in additional floor
area and additional units) of a building or group of buildings containing six
or more dwelling units on a lot shall provide at a minimum the following
usable open space per dwelling unit: 100 square feet for each unit having
less than three habitable rooms; 125 square feet for each unit having three
habitable rooms; and 175 square feet for each unit having more than three
habitable rooms.



 



   For purposes of this subsection, usable open space shall mean an area
which is designed and intended to be used for active or passive recreation. 
Usable open space may consist of private and/or common area as further
defined and regulated herein.  Parking areas, including access aisles,
driveways, and required front and side yards, open space areas located above
the first habitable room level, except as otherwise provided for herein,
shall not qualify as usable open space.



 



   (a)   Common Open Space:



 



   (1)   Common open space shall meet each of the following
requirements:



 



   (i)   Be open to the sky and have no structures that project into
the common open space area, except as provided in Section 12.22 C.20.(b),



 



   (ii)   Be readily accessible to all the residents of the site,



 



   (iii)   Have a minimum area of 400 sq. ft. with no horizontal
dimension less than 15 feet when measured perpendicular from any point on
each of the boundaries of the open space area,



 



   (iv)   Constitute at least 50% of the total required usable open
space in developments built at an R3, RAS3, R4, RAS4, and/or R5 density
regardless of the underlying zone.  (Amended by Ord. No. 174,999, Eff.
1/15/03.)



 



   (v)   Be located at the grade level or first habitable room level,
except in developments built at an R3, RAS3, R4, RAS4, and/or R5 density
regardless of the underlying zone. (Amended by Ord. No. 174,999, Eff.
1/15/03.)



 



   (2)   Common open space areas shall incorporate recreational
amenities such as swimming pools, spas, picnic tables, benches, children's
play areas, ball courts, barbecue areas and sitting areas.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 184,505, Eff. 1/11/17.)



 



   (3)   A minimum of 25 percent of the common open space area shall be
planted with ground cover, shrubs or trees.  At least one 24-inch box tree
for every four dwelling units shall be provided on site and may include
street trees in the parkway.  For a surface area not located directly on
finished grade that is used for common open space, and located at ground
level or the first habitable room level, shrubs and/or trees shall be
contained within permanent planters at least 30-inches in depth, and lawn or
ground cover shall be at least 12-inches in depth.  All required landscaped
areas shall be equipped with an automatic irrigation system and be properly
drained.



 



   The Director of Planning or the Director’s designee shall have the
authority to review and approve or disapprove all proposed landscape plans
submitted in compliance with this paragraph.



 



   (4)   Notwithstanding the provisions set forth in this paragraph:



 



   (i)   Recreation rooms at least 600 square feet in area for a
development of 16 or more dwelling units, or at least 400 square feet in area
for a development of fewer than 16 dwelling units, may qualify as common open
space, but shall not qualify for more than 25 percent of the total required
usable open space.



 



   (ii)   Roof decks in developments built at an R3 or an RAS3 density,
regardless of the underlying zone, may be used as common open space,
excluding that portion of the roof within ten feet from the parapet wall. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 174,999, Eff. 1/15/03.)



 



   (iii)   Roof decks in developments built at an R4, RAS4, and/or R5
density, regardless of the underlying zone, may be used in their entirety as
common open space.  (Amended by Ord. No. 174,999, Eff. 1/15/03.)



 



   (b)   Private Open Space. Private open space is an open space area
which is contiguous to and immediately accessible from a single dwelling unit
and which meets all of the following requirements of the zones herein
specified:



 



   (1)   In the RD 1.5 and more restrictive zones:



 



   (i)   private open space shall be located at grade level or the
first habitable room level and be open to the sky. Structures may project no
more than three feet into the private open space area, provided there is a
minimum eight foot vertical clearance under the projection, except as
provided in Section 12.22 C.20.(b);



 



   (ii)   private open space shall be enclosed by a solid fence at
least four feet in height; and



 



   (iii)   the private open space area shall have no horizontal
dimension less than eight feet, when measured perpendicular from any point on
each of the boundaries of the open space area and contain a minimum of 100
square feet of which no more than 100 square feet per dwelling unit shall be
attributable to the total required open space.



 



   (2)   (Amended by Ord. No. 174,999, Eff. 1/15/03.)  In developments
built at an R3, RAS3, R4, RAS4, and/or R5 density regardless of the
underlying zone, private open space may be provided above the first habitable
room level.  When so provided, it shall:



 



   (i)   contain a minimum of 50 square feet of which no more than 50
square feet per dwelling unit shall be attributable to the total required
usable open space;



 



   (ii)   have no horizontal dimension less than six feet when measured
perpendicular from any point on each of the boundaries of the open space
area; and



 



   (iii)   provide a minimum eight foot vertical clearance under any
projection, except as provided in Section 12.22 C.20.(b); and



 



   (iv)   that portion of a balcony which extends or projects into a
required front yard in compliance with Section 12.22 C.20.(d) may qualify as
usable open space provided it meets each of the above specified requirements
set forth in this subparagraph.



 



   3.   Director’s Decision.  (Amended by Ord. No. 174,999, Eff.
1/15/03.)  If a development proposed with an R3, RAS3, R4, RAS4, or R5
density, regardless of the underlying zone, fails to meet the open space
standards of this subsection, an applicant may apply to the Director of
Planning for a Director’s Decision.  The applicant shall file an
application in the public office of the Department of City Planning upon a
form prescribed for that purpose and pay a filing fee equivalent to that
established for a “Miscellaneous Plan Approval.”  This fee is set forth
in Section 19.01 I. of this Code.  The application shall be accompanied by
architectural, landscape and structural plans for the development, and other
information as required by the Director of Planning.  All open space areas
for the development shall be clearly identified in the materials submitted.



 



   (a)   No decision granting approval under this subdivision shall
exceed:



 



   (1)   a ten percent reduction in the total required usable open
space, provided that any reduction is to the common open space portion only;
or



 



   (2)   a ten percent increase in the qualifying area of recreation
rooms up to a maximum of 35 percent of the total required usable open space;
or



 



   (3)   a ten percent reduction in the required area for planting of
ground cover, shrubs and trees in common open space, but that reduction shall
not decrease the total required usable open space.



 



   (b)   Decision.  The Director shall make a decision of approval,
conditional approval or disapproval within 25 calendar days of the
Department’s acceptance of an application.  Notice of the Director’s
decision shall be mailed to the applicant, the City Councilmember in whose
District the property is located, and to all owners and lessees of property
within a radius of 500 feet of the property.  The decision of the Director
shall include written findings in support of the decision.  In order to
approve a proposed development pursuant to this subsection, the Director must
find:



 



   (1)   that the open space provided conforms with the objectives of
this subsection, and



 



   (2)   that the proposed project complies with the total usable open
space requirements.



 



   (c)   Appeals.  The decision of the Director shall become final
after an elapsed period of 15 calendar days from the date of mailing of the
decision to the applicant, unless an appeal is filed with the Area Planning
Commission within that period.  The applicant, the City Councilmember in
whose District the property is located, or any other interested person
adversely affected by the decision of the Director may appeal to the Area
Planning Commission.  Appeals shall be processed in accordance with Section
12.24 I.



 



 



SEC. 12.21.1.  HEIGHT OF BUILDING OR STRUCTURES.



 



   No building or structure shall be erected or enlarged which exceeds the
total floor area, the number of stories or the height limits hereinafter
specified for the district in which the building or structure is located. 
Provided, however, that with respect to height, buildings and structures
located within the boundaries of the Century City North and Century City
South Specific Plans shall comply solely with the requirements of the
respective specific plan and the requirements of Section 12.21.2 of this
Code; that buildings and structures located within Community Redevelopment
Plan Areas shall comply with the requirements of Section 12.21.3 of this
Code; that buildings and structures located within Enterprise Zones shall
comply with the requirements of Section 12.21.4 of this Code; that buildings
and structures located within Centers Study Areas designated on Maps Numbered
1 through 29 referred to in Section 12.21.5 of this Code, shall comply with
the requirements of Section 12.21.5 of this Code; and that buildings and
structures located in the R1V, R1F, and R1R One-Family Zone Variations shall
comply with the requirements of Section 12.21.6 of this Code.  Such
designations are consistent with the purposes, intent and provisions of the
General Plan.  (Amended by Ord. No. 184,802, Eff. 3/17/17.)



 



   In the A1, A2, RZ, RMP, and RW2 Zones, and in those portions of the RD
and R3 Zones, which are also in Height District No. 1, no Building or
Structure shall exceed 45 feet in height.  In the RA, RE, RS, R1 and R2
Zones in Height District No. 1, located in a Coastal Zone, no Building or
Structure shall exceed 45 feet in height.  In the RU and RW1 Zones, no
Building or Structure shall exceed 30 feet in height.  In the RA, RE, RS,
and R1 Zones in Height District No. 1, located in a Hillside Area, as defined
in Section 12.03 of this Code, no Building or Structure shall exceed the
height limits established in Paragraph (d) of Subdivision 10. of Subsection
C. of Section 12.21 of this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,624, Eff.
5/9/11.)



 



   Notwithstanding the preceding paragraph, the following height
regulations shall apply on a Lot that is not located in a Hillside Area or
Coastal Zone:  In the R2 Zone, no Building or Structure shall exceed 33 feet
in height.  In the R1, RS, or RE9 Zones, no Building or Structure shall
exceed 33 feet in height; except that when the roof of the uppermost Story of
a Building or Structure or portion of the Building or Structure has a Slope
of less than 25 percent, the maximum height shall be 28 feet.  In the RE11,
RE15, RE20, RE 40 or RA Zones, no Building or Structure shall exceed 36 feet
in height; except that when the roof of the uppermost Story of a Building or
Structure or portion of a Building or Structure has a Slope of less than 25
percent, the maximum height shall be 30 feet.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,624,
Eff. 5/9/11.)



 



   Notwithstanding the above, when 40 percent or more of the existing
One-Family Dwellings with Frontage on both sides of the block have Building
heights exceeding these limits, the maximum height for any Building on that
block may be the average height of the Dwellings exceeding these limits. 
Height limitations in Specific Plans, Historic Preservation Overlay Zones or
in subdivision approvals shall take precedence over the requirements of this
Section 12.21.1.  This section shall apply when there are no height
limitations imposed on Lots by a Specific Plan or a Historic Overlay Zone or
created by a subdivision approval.  (Added by Ord. No. 181,624, Eff. 5/9/11.)



 



   In the CR Zone and those portions of the RD, R3, and RAS3 Zones, which
are in Height District Nos. 2, 3 or 4, no building or structure shall exceed
six stories nor shall it exceed 75 feet in height.  However, a building
designed and used entirely for residential purposes or a residential building
in the RAS3 Zone that has commercial uses on the ground floor, shall only be
limited as to the number of feet in height.  (Amended by Ord. No. 174,999,
Eff. 1/15/03.)



 



   In the PB Zone, no parking building shall exceed a height of two
stories in Height District No. 1; provided, however, that the parking of
automobiles shall be permitted on the roof of the parking building if a solid
enclosing wall or parapet wall at least three feet six inches in height is
provided and maintained around all those portions of the roof which are
arranged and used for the parking of automobiles. No parking building in a PB
zone shall exceed a height of six stories in Height District No. 2, ten
stories in Height District No. 3 or 13 stories in Height District No. 4.
Basement floors, located entirely below the natural or finished grade of a
lot, whichever is lower, shall not be considered in computing the permitted
height of parking buildings in the PB Zone. (Amended by Ord. No. 122,569,
Eff. 9/2/62.)



 



   A.   Limitations.



 



   1.   (Amended by Ord. No. 181,624, Eff. 5/9/11.)  The total Floor
Area contained in all the main Buildings on a Lot in a commercial or
industrial zone in Height District No. 1 shall not exceed one-and-one-half
times the Buildable Area of the Lot; for a Lot in all other zones, except the
RA, RE, RS, and R1 Zones, the total Floor Area contained in all the main
Buildings on a Lot in Height District No. 1 shall not exceed three times the
Buildable Area of the Lot.



 



   For RA, RE, RS, and R1 Zoned properties not located in a Hillside Area
or Coastal Zone, the total Residential Floor Area shall comply with the Floor
Area restrictions for each zone.  For RA, RE, RS, and R1 Zoned properties
located in a Hillside Area, as defined in Section 12.03 of this Code, the
total Residential Floor Area shall comply with the limits established in
Paragraph (b) of Subdivision 10. of Subsection C. of Section 12.21 of this
Code.  For RA, RE, RS, and R1 Zoned properties in a Coastal Zone not located
in a Hillside Area, as defined in Section 12.03 of this Code, the total Floor
Area contained in all the main buildings on a Lot shall not exceed three
times the Buildable Area of the Lot.



 



   Portions of Height District No. 1 may be designated as being in an "L"
Limited Height District, and no Building or Structure in Height District No.
1-L shall exceed six Stories, nor shall it exceed 75 feet in height. 
Portions of Height District No. 1 may be designated as being in a "VL" Very
Limited Height District, and no Building or Structure in Height District No.
1-VL shall exceed three Stories, nor shall it exceed 45 feet in height. 
Notwithstanding that limitation, portions of Height District No. 1-VL that
are also in the RAS3 or RAS4 Zones shall not exceed 50 feet in height. 
Portions of Height District No. 1 may also be designated as being in an "XL"
Extra Limited Height District, and no Building or Structure in Height
District No. 1-XL shall exceed two Stories, nor shall the highest point of
the roof of any Building or Structure located in this District exceed 30 feet
in height.  In the RA, RE, RS, and R1 Zones, portions of Height District No.
1 may also be designated as being in an "SS" Single Story Limit Height
District, and no Building or Structure in Height District No. 1-SS shall
exceed one Story, nor shall the highest point of the roof of any Building or
Structure located in this District exceed 18 feet in height.  For the
purposes of Height District No. 1-SS, a Basement does not count as a Story
when the Elevation of the upper surface of the floor or roof above the
Basement does not exceed two feet in height at any point above the finished
or natural Grade, whichever is lower.



 



   EXCEPTION:  A Building in Height District Nos. 1-XL, 1-VL, designed
and used entirely for residential purposes, or a Building in the RAS3 or RAS4
Zones shall be limited as to the number of feet in height, but not as to the
number of Stories.



 



   2.   The total floor area contained in all the buildings on a lot in
Height District No. 2 shall not exceed six times the buildable area of said
lot. (Amended by Ord. No. 161,684, Eff. 11/3/86.)



 



   3.   The total floor area contained in all the buildings on a lot in
Height District No. 3 shall not exceed ten times the buildable area of said
lot. (Amended by Ord. No. 161,684, Eff. 11/3/86.)



 



   4.   The total floor area contained in all the buildings on a lot in
Height District No. 4 shall not exceed thirteen times the buildable area of
said lot. (Amended by Ord. No. 161,684, Eff. 11/3/86.)



 



   5.   In computing the total floor area within a building, the gross
area confined within the exterior walls within a building shall be considered
as the floor area of that building, except for the space devoted to bicycle
parking, stairways, elevator shafts, light courts, rooms housing mechanical
equipment incidental to the operation of buildings, and outdoor eating areas
of ground floor restaurants.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,386, Eff. 3/13/13.)



 



   6.   Whenever any unusual situation or design of building exists so
that it is difficult to determine the precise application of those
provisions, the Department of Building and Safety shall make such
determinations in a manner to carry out the indicated purpose and intent
hereof.



 



   7.   (None)



 



   8.   In determining the number of stories, any basement containing
habitable rooms shall be considered a story.  (Added by Ord. No. 131,309,
Eff. 4/24/66.)



 



   9.   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.) Additional
limitations may be required as set forth in Section 12.32 G.3.



 



   10.   (Added by Ord. No. 161,684, Eff. 11/3/86.) Notwithstanding any
other provisions of this section, portions of buildings on a C or M zoned lot
governed by the provisions of this section shall not exceed the height limits
set forth below when located within the distances specified from a lot
classified in the RW1 Zone or a more restrictive zone.



 



 

Distance
 
Height


0 to 49 feet
 
25 feet


50 to 99 feet
 
33 feet


100 to 199 feet
 
61 feet



 



   When the highest existing elevation of the adjacent property in the RW1
Zone or a more restrictive zone exceeds the grade of a C or M zoned property
by more than five feet, a building or structure on the C or M zoned property
may exceed the height specified above by the number of feet  represented by
the difference in grade.



 



   Buildings of a height greater than that specified in this subdivision
may be authorized by a Zoning Administrator pursuant to Section 12.24 X.22. 
(Para. Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)



 



   B.   Exceptions.



 



   1.   In Height District No. 1, motion picture studio stages, scenes
or skybackings, temporary towers and the like may be erected to a height of
125 feet if said building and structures observe front, side, and rear yards
of one foot for each four feet such building or structure exceeds three
stories or 45 feet in height. Said yards shall be in addition to any other
yards or setbacks required by other provisions of this article.



 



   2.   Whenever the highest point of elevation of the adjoining
sidewalk or ground surface within a five-foot horizontal distance measured
from the exterior wall of a building exceeds grade level by more than 20
feet, a building or structure may exceed the height in number of feet
prescribed in this section by not more than 12 feet.  However, such
additional height shall not be permitted to the extent that such additional
height causes any portion of the building or structure to exceed a height in
number of feet as prescribed by this section as measured from the highest
point of the roof structure or parapet wall to the elevation of the ground
surface which is vertically below this point of measurement.  The provisions
of this subdivision shall not apply to any one-family dwelling subject to the
provisions of Section 12.21 A.17. of this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No.
168,159, Eff. 9/14/92.)



 



   3.   Roof Structures and Equipment.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,110,
Eff. 5/29/12.)



 



   (a)   Tanks or similar equipment required to operate and maintain
the building, skylights, towers, steeples, flagpoles,  smokestacks, wireless
masts, water tanks, silos, or similar structures may be erected above the
building height limit by up to five feet if the structure is set back from
the roof perimeter by five feet.



 



   Chimney, exhaust ducts, solar water heaters, or any roof structure
housing stairways, elevators or ventilation fans may also exceed the building
height limit by up to five feet, but are not required to provide a setback
from the perimeter of the roof.  Where height is limited to seventy-five
(75) feet, roof structures for the housing of elevators and stairways may
exceed the building height limit by up to twenty (20) feet in height, and
where height is limited to thirty (30) feet or forty-five (45) feet,  roof
structures for the housing of elevators and stairways may exceed the building
height limit by up to ten (10) feet in height.



 



   No such structure or any other space above the specified height limit
shall be allowed for the purpose of providing additional floor space.



 



   (b)   In all zones, except the "A", "R", "CR", "C1" and "C1.5", a
roof sign may also be erected above the specified height limit.



 



   (c)   Structures and panel assemblies solely supporting solar energy
systems ("Solar Structures").



 



   (1)   In all zones, Solar Structures may exceed the roof surface by
3 feet even if the roof surface is at or above the allowable building height
limit.  The height shall be measured to the highest point of the structure
and panel assembly.  These structures are not required to provide a setback
as described in paragraph (a) of this Subdivision.



 



   (2)   Other than the R1 and more restrictive zones, solar structures
built on a flat roof may exceed the roof surface by up to 15 feet even if the
roof surface is at or above the allowable building height limit.  The height
shall be measured to the highest point of the structure and panel assembly.



 



   Exception: In the R1 and more restrictive zones, a solar structure may
exceed the roof surface by up to 15 feet on a flat roof only if the structure
is also used for the purpose of shading a habitable rooftop deck or rooftop
parking.  The structure(s), however, may not exceed the height limit. 
Setbacks are not required by this paragraph.



 



   4.   In all height districts parking floor space with necessary
interior driveways and ramps thereto, space within a roof structure or
penthouse for the housing of building operating equipment or machinery, space
provided for the landing and storage of helicopters and basement storage
space shall not be considered in determining the total floor area within a
building.  (Amended by Ord. No. 146,704, Eff. 12/9/74.)



 



   5.   Notwithstanding the height limitations of the height district
in which they are located, municipal buildings under the control, operation
or management of City departments or agencies may be built to a maximum
height of 35 feet.  In addition, sports field lighting standards in parks
under the control, operation or management of the Board of Recreation and
Park Commissioners and used for recreation purposes as determined by that
agency may be built to a maximum height of 75 feet and must be equipped with
appropriate beam control to direct the light onto the field and prevent glare
and spill light from impacting neighboring properties, and shall include
automatic timer control with an on/off scheduling system.  (Added by Ord.
No. 174,788, Eff. 10/05/02.)



 



   6.   (Amended by Ord. No. 163,627, Eff. 6/20/88.)  Notwithstanding
the provisions of Section 12.21.1 A.10., buildings on a lot in a C or M zone
in Height District No. 1 shall not be restricted in height as provided by
Section 12.21.1 A.10., under either of the following circumstances:



 



   a.   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.) Where one or more
of the following discretionary approvals, initiated by application of
property owners or their representatives, was granted on or after January 1,
1983, and specifically addressed the height for one or more buildings: change
of zone, height district change, exception from a specific plan, conditional
use, variance, tract map, parcel map or coastal development permit. If the
approval provided for a specific height, then the restriction shall apply to
the buildings and structures on the lot; or



 



   b.   Where architectural and structural plans sufficient for a
complete plan check for a building permit for a building or structure were
accepted by the Department of Building and Safety and for which a plan check
fee was collected on or before the effective date of this subdivision, and
for which no subsequent changes are made to those plans which increase the
height. However, any such building permit shall become invalid if
construction pursuant to such permit is not commenced within 18 months of the
date the plan check fee was collected.



 



 



SEC. 12.21.2.  HEIGHT OF BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES IN CENTURY CITY.



   (Added by Ord. No. 160,657, Eff. 2/17/86, Oper. 6/17/86.)



 



   Within the boundaries of the Century City North and Century City South
Specific Plans (Ordinance No. 156,122 and 156,121 respectively), the
following definitions and regulations shall apply:



 



   A.   Definitions.



 



   1.   Building, Height of—The vertical distance between the highest
point of the adjacent ground elevation and the ceiling of the top story of
the building.



 



   2.   Grade (Adjacent Ground Elevation) – The lowest point of
elevation of the finished surface of the ground between the exterior wall of
a building and a point five feet distant from said wall, or the lowest point
of elevation of the finished surface of the ground between the exterior wall
of the building and the property line if it is less than five feet distant
from said wall. In case walls are parallel to and within five feet of a
public sidewalk, alley or other public way, the grade shall be the elevation
of the sidewalk, alley or public way.



 



   B.   Height of buildings or structures.



 



   1.   No building shall be erected, enlarged or maintained which
exceeds either the total floor area, the number of stories or the height
limits hereinafter specified for the district in which the building or
structure is located.



 



   2.   The total floor area contained in all the main buildings on a
lot in Height District No. 1 shall not exceed three times the buildable area
of said lot. Portions of Height District No. 1 may be designated as being in
an “L” Limited Height District and no building or structure in Height
District No. 1-L shall exceed six stories nor shall it exceed 75 feet in
height.  Portions of Height District No. 1 may be designated as being in a
“VL” Very Limited Height District and no building or structure in Height
District No. 1-VL shall exceed three stories nor shall it exceed 45 feet in
height.  Notwithstanding that limitation, portions of Height District No.
1-VL that are also in the RAS3 or RAS4 zones shall not exceed 50 feet in
height.  (Amended by Ord. No. 174,999, Eff. 1/15/03.)



 



   3.   The total floor area contained in all the main building on a
lot in Height District No. 2 shall not exceed six times the buildable area of
said lot.



 



   4.   In computing the total floor area within a building, the gross
area confined within the exterior walls within a building, except for the
space devoted to stairways, elevator shafts, light courts, and rooms housing
mechanical equipment incidental to the operation of buildings, shall be
considered as the floor area of that floor of the building.



 



   5.   Whenever any unusual situation or design of building exists so
that it is difficult to determine the precise application of those
provisions, the Department of Building and Safety shall make such
determinations in a manner to carry out the indicated purpose and intent
thereof.



 



   6.   In any zone or height district where buildings are limited to a
specific height or number of stories, no portion of any roof shall exceed the
permitted building height by more than 14 feet



 



   7.   In determining the number of stories, any basement containing
habitable rooms shall be considered a story.



 



   8.   Additional limitations may be required  as set forth in
Section 12.32K of this Code.



 



   C.   Exceptions



 



   1.   In Height District No. 1, motion picture studio stages, scenes
or skybackings, temporary towers and the like may be erected to a height of
125 feet if said buildings and structures observe front, side, and rear yards
of one foot for each four feet such building or structure exceeds three
stories or 45 feet in height. Said yards shall be in addition to any other
yards or setbacks required by other provisions of this article.



 



   2.   Buildings or structures erected on sloping ground may exceed
the height in number of feet, prescribed in this subsection, insofar as such
additional height may be required to overcome differences in adjoining
sidewalk or ground elevations, but no building or structure shall exceed the
specified height limit for the district in which it is located, measured from
the highest point of the adjoining sidewalk or ground level, nor shall any
such building or structure exceed the specified height limit by more than 15
feet from any other point of the adjoining sidewalk or ground level. No such
building shall have more stories than hereinabove provided.



 



   3.   Penthouses or roof structures for the housing of elevators,
stair ways, tanks, ventilating fans or similar equipment required to operate
and maintain the building, or fire or parapet walls, skylights, towers,
steeples, flagpoles, chimneys, smokestacks, wireless masts, water tanks,
silos or similar structures, may be erected above the height limit specified
in the district in which the property is located, but no such penthouse or
roof structure, or any other space above said height limit shall be allowed
for the purpose of providing additional floor space. In all zones, except the
“A”, “R”, “CR”, “C1”, and “C1.5”, a roof sign may also be
erected above the specified height limit.



 



   4.   In all height districts parking floor space with necessary
interior driveways and ramps thereto, space within a roof structure or
penthouse for the housing of building operating equipment or machinery, space
provided for the landing and storage of helicopters and basement storage
space shall not be considered in determining the total floor area within a
building.



 



 



SEC. 12.21.3.  HEIGHT OF BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES IN COMMUNITY REDEVELOPMENT
PLAN AREAS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 161,684, Eff. 11/3/86.)



 



   Within the boundaries of a Community Redevelopment Plan Area for which
a redevelopment plan has been adopted pursuant to the California Community
Redevelopment Law, the height district limitations set forth below in
Subsections A through F shall apply:



 



   A.   The total floor area contained in all the buildings on a lot in
Height District No. CRA 1 shall not exceed three times the buildable area of
said lot.



 



   Portions of Height District No. CRA 1 may be designated as being in an
“L” Limited Height District, and no building or structure in Height
District No. CRA 1L shall exceed six stories, nor shall it exceed 75 feet in
height.  Portions of Height District No. CRA 1 may be designated as being in
a “VL” Very Limited Height District, and no building or structure in
Height District No. CRA 1-VL shall exceed three stories, nor shall it exceed
45 feet in height.  Notwithstanding that limitation, portions of Height
District No. CRA 1-VL that are also in the RAS3 or RAS4 zones shall not
exceed 50 feet in height. Portions of Height District No. CRA 1 may also be
designated as being in an “XL” Extra Limited Height District, and no
building or structure in Height District No. CRA 1-XL shall exceed two
stories, nor shall the highest point of the roof of any building or structure
located in such District exceed 30 feet in height.  (Amended by Ord. No.
174,999, Eff. 1/15/03.)



 



   EXCEPTION:  A building in Height District Nos. CRA 1-XL, CRA 1-VL and
CRA 1-L designed and used entirely for residential purposes, or in the RAS3
or RAS4 Zones, shall be limited as to the number of feet in height, but not
as to the number of stories.  (Amended by Ord. No. 174,999, Eff. 1/15/03.)



 



   B.   The total floor area contained in all the buildings on a lot in
Height District No. CRA2 shall not exceed six times the buildable area of
said lot.



 



   C.   The total floor area contained in all the buildings on a lot in
Height District No. CRA3 shall not exceed ten times the buildable area of
said lot.



 



   D.   The total floor area contained in all the buildings on a lot in
Height District No. CRA4 shall not exceed thirteen times the buildable area
of said lot.



 



   E.   Buildings and structures shall further comply with the
provisions of Section 12.21.1 A 5, 6, 8, 9 and 10 and Section 12.21.1 B 1, 2,
3 and 4.



 



   F.   Additional limitations on the height and/or floor area of any
building or structure may be required as set forth in each applicable
Community Redevelopment Plan.



 



[Editor's note:  Maps formerly associated with this section were deleted by
Ord. No. 177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.]



 



 



SEC. 12.21.4.  HEIGHT OF BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES IN ENTERPRISE ZONES.



   (Added by Ord. No. 161,684, Eff. 11/3/86.)



 



   An Enterprise Zone shall be that area designated by City Council
resolution and which has received approval as such from the California
Department of Commerce under either the Employment and Economic Incentive Act
Program or the Enterprise Zone Act Program. Within the boundaries of
“Enterprise Zones,” the height district limitations set forth below in
Subsections A through F shall apply:



 



   A.   The total floor area contained in all the buildings on a lot in
Height District No. EZ1 shall not exceed three times the buildable area of
said lot.



 



   Portions of Height District No. EZ 1 may be designated as being in an
“L” Limited Height District, and no building or structure in Height
District No. EZ 1-L shall exceed six stories, nor shall it exceed 75 feet in
height. Portions of Height District No. EZ 1 may be designated as being in a
“VL” Very Limited Height District, and no building or structure in Height
District No. EZ 1-VL shall exceed three stories, nor shall it exceed 45 feet
in height.  Notwithstanding that limitation, portions of Height District No.
EZ 1-VL that are also in the RAS3 or RAS4 zones shall not exceed 50 feet in
height.  Portions of Height District No. EZ 1 may also be designated as
being in an “XL” Extra Limited Height District, and no building or
structure in Height District No. EZ 1-XL shall exceed two stories, nor shall
the highest point of the roof of any building or structure located in such
District exceed 30 feet in height.  (Amended by Ord. No. 174,999, Eff.
1/15/03.)



 



   EXCEPTION:  A building in Height District Nos. EZ 1-XL, EZ 1-VL and EZ
1-L designed and used entirely for residential purposes, or in the RAS3 or
RAS4 Zones, shall be limited as to the number of feet in height, but not as
to the number of stories.  (Amended by Ord. No. 174,999, Eff. 1/15/03.)



 



   B.   The total floor area contained in all the buildings on a lot in
Height District No. EZ2 shall not exceed six times the buildable area of said
lot.



 



   C.   The total floor area contained in all the buildings on a lot in
Height District No. EZ3 shall not exceed ten times the buildable area of said
lot.



 



   D.   The total floor area contained in all the buildings on a lot in
Height District No. EZ4 shall not exceed thirteen times the buildable area of
said lot.



 



   E.   Buildings and structures shall further comply with the
provisions of Section 12.21.1 A 5, 6, 8, 9 and 10 and Section 12.21.1 B1, 2,
3 and 4.



 



   F.   Additional limitations on the height and/or floor area of any
building or structure may be required as set forth in each applicable
specific plan.



 




MAP NO. 48





(Repealed by Ord. No. 168,035, Eff. 7/30/92.)











MAP NO. 49





(Repealed by Ord. No. 168,035, Eff. 7/30/92.)











MAP NO. 50





(Repealed by Ord. No. 168,035, Eff. 7/30/92.)




 



 



SEC. 12.21.5.  HEIGHT OF BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES IN CENTERS STUDY AREAS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 161,684, Eff. 11/ 3/86.)



 



   Within the boundaries of the Centers Study areas designated on Maps
numbered 1 through 3 and 5 through 28 in Council File Nos. 86-0958, 86-0957,
85-0193 and 84-1554, the height district limitations set forth below in
Subsections A. through F. shall apply.  (Amended by Ord. No. 177,103, Eff.
12/18/05.)



 



   A.   The total floor area contained in all the buildings on a lot in
Height District No. CSA 1 shall not exceed three times the buildable area of
said lot.



 



   Portions of Height District No. CSA 1 may be designated as being in an
“L” Limited Height District, and no building or structure in Height
District No. CSA 1-L shall exceed six stories, nor shall it exceed 75 feet in
height. Portions of Height District No. CSA 1 may be designated as being in a
“VL” Very Limited Height District, and no building or structure in Height
District No. CSA 1-VL shall exceed three stories, nor shall it exceed 45 feet
in height.  Notwithstanding that limitation, portions of Height District No.
CSA 1-VL that are also in the RAS3 or RAS4 zones shall not exceed 50 feet in
height.  Portions of Height District No. CSA 1 may also be designated as
being in an “XL” Extra Limited Height District, and no building or
structure in Height District No. CSA 1-XL shall exceed two stories, nor shall
the highest point of the roof of any building or structure located in such
District exceed 30 feet in height.  (Amended by Ord. No. 174,999, Eff.
1/15/03.)



 



   EXCEPTION:  A building in Height District Nos. CSA 1-XL, CSA1-VL and
CSA1-L designed and used entirely for residential purposes, or in the RAS3 or
RAS4 Zones, shall be limited as to the number of feet in height, but not as
to the number of stories.  (Amended by Ord. No. 174,999, Eff. 1/15/03.)



 



   B.   The total floor area contained in all the buildings on a lot in
Height District No. CSA2 shall not exceed six times the buildable area of
said lot.



 



   C.   The total floor area contained in all the buildings on a lot in
Height District No. CSA3 shall not exceed ten times the buildable area of
said lot.



 



   D.   The total floor area contained in all the buildings on a lot in
Height District No. CSA4 shall not exceed thirteen times the buildable area
of said lot.



 



   E.   Buildings and structures shall further comply with the
provisions of Section 12.21.1A5, 6, 8, 9 and 10 and Section 12.21.1B1, 2, 3
and 4.



 



   F.   Additional limitations on the height and/or floor area of any
building or structure may be required as set forth in any applicable specific
plan.



 



[Editor's note:  Maps formerly associated with this section were deleted by
Ord. No. 177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.]



 



 



SEC. 12.21.6.  HEIGHT OF BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES IN ALL R1V, R1F, AND R1R
ONE-FAMILY ZONE VARIATIONS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 184,802, Eff. 3/17/17.)



 



   Lots zoned R1V, R1F and R1R shall comply with all height limitations in
12.08 C.5.(b)-(d).



 



 



SEC. 12.22.  EXCEPTIONS.



 



   A.   Use.



 



   1.   Private Garage Not Required – Topography – Where a lot
abuts upon a street or place which due to topographic conditions or excessive
grades is not accessible by automobile, and such lot is to be occupied by not
more than a one–family dwelling, no private garage shall be required.



 



   2.   Public Utilities and Public Services – The provisions of this
article shall not be so construed as to limit or interfere with the
construction, installation, operation and maintenance for public utility
purposes of water and gas pipes, mains and conduits, electric light and
electric power transmission and distribution lines, telephone and telegraph
lines, oil pipe lines, sewers and sewer mains, and incidental appurtenances.



 



   3.   Family Day Care Homes.  (Title and Subdiv. Amended by Ord. No.
173,085, Eff. 3/19/00.)  Notwithstanding any other provisions of this
article to the contrary, and in all zones wherein residential uses are
permitted by right the following shall apply:



 



   (a)   Small Family Day Care Homes:  Any dwelling unit may be used
as a small family day care home, with up to eight children, as defined in
Section 12.03, if it is licensed by the State of California as a small family
day care home.  (Amended by Ord. No. 176,545, Eff. 5/2/05.)



 



   (b)   Large Family Day Care Homes:  Any dwelling unit may be used
as a large family day care home, with up to 14 children, as defined in
Section 12.03, if it is licensed by the State of California as a large family
day care home, and if it complies with the conditions set forth in
Subparagraph (1) below.  (Amended by Ord. No. 176,545, Eff. 5/2/05.)



 



   (1)   Conditions.  A large family day care home shall comply with
the following conditions:



 



   (i)   Provide drop-off facilities, such as curb spaces or driveway
area, which are necessary to avoid interference with traffic and promote the
safety of the children;



 



   (ii)   Comply with any standards adopted by the State Fire Marshal
pursuant to Subdivision (d) of Section 1597.46 of the California Health and
Safety Code relating to large family day care homes;



 



   (iii)   Comply with all provisions of the Los Angeles Municipal Code
relating to large family day care homes and dwelling units;



 



   (iv)   The use shall not create an unreasonable level of disruption
or interference with the peaceful enjoyment of the adjoining and neighboring
properties;



 



   (v)   Name plates and signs shall conform to the provisions of
Section 12.21 A.7.;



 



   (vi)   Play equipment, swings, sandboxes, or structures shall be
located in the rear yard only;



 



   (vii)   No loud speaker or public address system shall be installed
or operated on any open portion of the premises, and any phonograph, radio or
other recorded music used in connection with any activity shall be
sufficiently modulated to ensure that the use does not disturb the adjoining
and neighboring residents;



 



   (viii)   The existing residential character of the building and site
shall be maintained, including the exterior facade, landscaping, fences,
walls, lawn area, and driveways;



 



   (ix)   The floor space of any dwelling unit used for the operation
of a large family day care home shall not be increased for such use, and the
floor space shall not be altered to reasonably preclude its continued use as
a dwelling unit; and



 



   (x)   There shall be at least 300 feet between the lot containing
the building where the proposed large family day care home will be located
and the building housing any existing large family day care home.  This
distance is to be measured along the shortest street route between the two
lots as determined by the Department of Recreation and Parks.  (Second
Sentence Amended by Ord. No. 181,192, Eff. 7/27/10.)



 



   (2)   Notice of Intention to Operate Large Family Day Care Home. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.) A Notice of Intention to
Operate a Large Family Day Care Home shall be filed in the public office of
the Department of City Planning, on forms provided by the Department.  The
forms shall be accompanied by all information deemed necessary by the
Department.  The notice shall include verification provided by the
Department of Recreation and Parks that the large family day care home is in
compliance with the concentration and spacing condition set forth in Section
12.22 A.3.(b)(1)(x) above.  (Sentence Amended by Ord. No. 181,192, Eff.
7/27/10.)  No fee shall be charged and no public hearing shall be required
in connection with the filing of the notice.



 



   (3)   Exemption from Concentration and Spacing Condition.  If a
proposed Large Family Day Care Home is not in compliance with the
concentration and spacing condition set forth in Section 12.22 A.3.(b)(1)(x)
above, then the operator may apply to the Zoning Administrator for an
exemption from this condition pursuant to Section 12.24 X.25.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 176,545, Eff. 5/2/05.)



 



   (4)   Violation of Conditions - Authority of Zoning Administrator to
Require Modification of Conditions of Operation or Discontinuance of Large
Family Day Care Homes.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code,
the Zoning Administrator may require a modification of the conditions of
operation or the discontinuance of a large family day care home if the Zoning
Administrator finds that as operated or maintained there has been a violation
of any of the conditions or standards set forth in Subparagraph (1) of
Paragraph (b) of this subdivision, or that such use:



 



   (i)   jeopardizes or endangers the public health or safety of
persons residing in, working on, or occupying the premises; or



 



   (ii)   constitutes a public nuisance; or



 



   (iii)   violates any provision of this chapter or any other city,
state or federal regulations, ordinance or statute.



 



   The procedure for the modification of the conditions of operation or
discontinuance of a large family day care home shall be as provided for in
Section 12.27.1 of this Code.



 



   4.   Sale of Christmas Trees – Notwithstanding any provisions of
this article to the contrary, the annual retail sale, including sales by
philanthropic, political, patriotic, and charitable associations, of
Christmas trees and ornaments shall be permitted in all zones, except the RE,
RS, R1, RU, RZ, and RMP Zones, between December first and twenty-fifth,
inclusive, and the necessary permits and  licenses may be issued provided
that:  (Amended by Ord. No. 164,904, Eff. 7/6/89.)



 



   (a)   Any lights used to illuminate the site shall be arranged to
reflect the light away from any adjacent residentially-zoned property except
that this restriction does not apply to frosted light bulbs of 100 watts or
less; and



 



   (b)   There shall be no use of any sound equipment in the
residential zone in conjunction with the retail sale of Christmas trees; and



 



   (c)   The operator of such a sale of Christmas trees shall post a
Two Hundred Dollar ($200.00) cleanup deposit with the Office of the City
Clerk prior to any lot preparation or sales; and



 



   (d)   The operator of such a sale of Christmas trees shall comply
with all other applicable provisions of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.



 



   5.   (Title and First Para. Deleted by Ord. No. 172,489, Eff.
4/16/99.)



 



   (a)   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.) Notwithstanding
any other provisions of Articles 2 and 3 of this chapter to the contrary, no
oil well, controlled drill site or temporary geological exploratory hole may
be permitted in an A, R, P or C Zone within the area located between the mean
high tide line of the City’s shoreline and a line 1,000 yards landward from
that line.  This prohibition shall not be construed or interpreted as
affecting:



 



   (1)   any shore line areas within the Los Angeles Harbor except for
Cabrillo Beach;



 



   (2)   any oil well, controlled drill site or a facility for the
production of oil gases or other hydrocarbon substances in existence on the
effective date of this subdivision;



 



   (3)   any connected subterranean gas holding areas and facilities
that are operated as a public utility pursuant to Section 14.00; and



 



   (4)   subsurface drilling and producing operations more than 500
feet below the surface of this area.



 



   (b)   Ordinances 159,607, 159,608 and 159,609, which created Oil
Drilling Districts U–171–A, U–172–A and U–173–A, respectively, to
allow exploration and production of oil within 1,000 yards of the mean high
tide in the City of Los Angeles, are hereby repealed.



 



   (c)   This subdivision shall apply to all supplemental use districts
within this area for which a vested right for production of oil has not
accrued as of the effective date of this subdivision



 



   (d)   If any provision or clause of this Ordinance or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held to be
unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction,
such invalidity shall not affect other Ordinance provisions thereof which can
be implemented without the invalid provision, clause or application, and to
this end the provisions and causes of this ordinance are declared to be
severable.



 



   [Subdivision 5(a) - (d) adopted by the voters as Initiative Ordinance
“O” on November 8, 1988, Eff. 11/30/88.]



 



   6.   Infrequent Helicopter Landings.(Amended by Ord. No. 150,623,
Eff. 4/13/78.) – Notwithstanding any provision of this article to the
contrary, helicopters may land and take off in any zone except RA, R, C1 and
CR Zones, provided that a permit therefore has first been obtained from the
Fire Department under the provisions of Division 5, Article 7 of Chapter 5 of
this Code. Such helicopter landings and takeoffs shall not exceed three per
day in or upon any single location or premises except that the Fire
Department may permit as many such landings and takeoffs in or upon any
single location or premises in a day as it determines are required by the
individual nature of each such helicopter use, including occasions of civic
interest, and are consistent with the public health, safety, general welfare
and intent of this article. In the RA, R, C1 or CR Zones helicopters may land
and take off in or upon any single location not more than two times per
calendar year in a park, school ground or other similar type of public open
space, for educational programs sponsored by the Los Angeles Police
Department or the Los Angeles City Unified School District, provided that the
Fire Department permit referred to above has first been obtained. Nothing
herein shall prevent nor curtail the operation of emergency helicopter
landing facilities as required in Section 57.4705 of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code.



 



   The provisions of this subdivision shall not be construed or
interpreted as permitting the establishment of a regularly operating airport,
aircraft landing field, heliport or helistop.



 



   7.   Temporary Operations of Carnivals and Rides. (Added by Ord. No.
130,076, Eff. 5/26/65.) – Notwithstanding any provisions of this article to
the contrary, carnival shows and amusement enterprises of a similar type may
be operated in the P Zone for a period of not to exceed five consecutive days
in any 30 day period in or upon any single location, provided that:



 



   (1)   All such operations are conducted at least 200 feet from any
school or adjoining occupied property classified in any A or R Zone.



 



   (2)   Such operations do not cause or produce any dust, gas, smoke,
noise, fumes, odors, or vibrations detrimental to other property in the
neighborhood or to the welfare of the occupants thereof.



 



   (3)   Any lights used to illuminate the event are arranged so as to
reflect the light away from any adjacent residentially used premises.



 



   (4)   No public address system in connection with the event is
installed on the property unless it is modulated so as not to be disturbing
to occupants of any nearby dwelling units.



 



   (5)   All structures, apparatus and appurtenances shall be removed
from the premises the next day following the closing of the carnival.



 



   (6)   The hours of such operation to be limited between the hours of
10:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.



 



   8.   Occasional Use of Private Homes for Adult Education Classes.
(Added by Ord. No. 132,573, Eff. 8/5/66.) – Notwithstanding any provision
of this article to the contrary, adult education classes shall be permitted
in homes in the RA or R Zones and no additional off-street parking shall be
required in conjunction therewith, provided that:



 



   (a)   Classes are held not more than one day a week for a period not
to exceed three hours per day end each class does not meet for more than
fifteen weeks in any one semester.



 



   (b)   Classes are purely incidental to the use of the property as a
home and no more than thirty persons are permitted to attend each class.



 



   (c)   Classes primarily involve oral discussions and no laboratory
equipment, heavy machinery, or large tools are used in connection therewith,
except small record players, slide projectors and other similar audiovisual
teaching aids.



 



   (d)   All classes are scheduled on the first floor of the building.



 



   For the purpose of this subdivision “adult education classes” shall
mean any educational programs conducted by University Extension of University
of California or any other comparable university.



 



   No certificate of occupancy shall be required in connection with the
use authorized by this ordinance.



 



   9.   Maintenance of Accessory Structures.  (Amended by Ord. No.
172,839, Eff. 11/1/99.)  Notwithstanding any provisions of this article to
the contrary, an accessory building or structure may be maintained on a lot
without a main building and a residential building may be maintained on a lot
without the required off-street parking for the periods of time as authorized
by the Advisory Agency in conformance with Article 7 of Chapter 1 of this
Code.



 



   10.   Model.  (Amended by Ord. No. 174,999, Eff. 1/15/03.) 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, a model or models, as
defined in Article 7 of Chapter 1 of this Code, may be erected and maintained
on any lot or site designated by the Advisory Agency as a site for a model or
models on an approved or conditionally approved tentative map, in the A, RE,
RS, R1, RU, RZ, RMP, or RW1 Zones with respect to one-family homes, and in
the R2, RD, RW2, R3, RAS3, R4, RAS4, or R5 Zones with respect to multiple
unit structures, i.e., buildings containing more than one dwelling unit, for
a period of time as determined by the Advisory Agency, provided that:



 



   (a)   In an “H” hillside or mountainous area, a grading plan for
the entire approved or conditionally approved subdivision or any final map
unit thereof has been approved by the Grading Division of the Department of
Building and Safety and a Grading Certificate has been issued for the
property involved or that the grading is being carried on under the
authorization of a valid grading permit.



 



   (b)   Necessary easements for the installation of water system
facilities and underground utilities have been dedicated and the developer
has guaranteed the cost of relocation or future adjustment of these
facilities to the satisfaction of the Department of Water and Power.



 



   (c)   The owner assumes liability for any damage caused to water
system facilities and underground utilities prior to final street
improvements in a manner satisfactory to the Department of Water and Power.



 



   (d)   Adequate fire protection facilities are provided to the
satisfaction of the Fire Department.



 



   (e)   Adequate sewer facilities are provided to the satisfaction of
the Bureau of Engineering and the Los Angeles County Health Department.



 



   (f)   A paved access roadway at least 20 feet in width is provided
which is satisfactory to the Department of Building and Safety.



 



   (g)   Off-street parking be provided as follows:



 



   (1)   For multiple unit structures, the numbers and location of the
off-street parking facilities shall be determined by the Advisory Agency;



 



   (2)   For one-family detached structures, one lot for each six model
dwellings or fraction thereof shall be located contiguous to the model
dwelling sites. All off-street parking facilities and driveways shall be
dust-proofed with asphaltic surfacing or with decomposed granite which is
sprinkled at sufficient intervals to prevent dust, or by an alternate method
of dust control satisfactory to the Department of Building and Safety.



 



   (h)   The model dwelling sites are attractively maintained and, with
respect to one-family detached structures, attractively landscaped.



 



   (i)   Not more than one sign is placed on each designated model
dwelling. Said sign shall not exceed 12 square feet in area and shall be used
only for identification or directional purposes. Prohibited are banners,
posters, pennants, ribbons, streamers, string of light bulbs, spinners, or
other similarly moving devices.



 



   (j)   Any furnishings placed in the model dwelling are maintained
solely for purposes accessory to the display of the model dwelling and in no
way are used to sell or promote the sale of such furnishings.



 



   (k)   Prior to the issuance of any building permit for a model
dwelling, the property owner shall first execute and file with the
Superintendent of Building a notarized agreement assuming all risks and
agreeing to all of the conditions set forth in this Subdivision 10. With
respect to one-family detached structures, the agreement shall further
provide that in the event that a final map which includes the property
whereon the model dwelling is located is not recorded, all buildings or
structures authorized by said permit shall be removed, within 90 days from
the expiration of the tentative tract, and that if all buildings and
structures are not completely removed as required above, they may be
confiscated and removed or demolished by the City without further notice.
Prior to the erection of any model dwelling that is a one–family detached
structure, authorized pursuant to the approval of any subdivision and
contingent thereon, the property owner shall post in the Department of
Building and Safety a bond in favor of the City of Los Angeles (to be
approved by the City Attorney and duplicates to be furnished to him) in an
amount satisfactory to the Department of Building and Safety sufficient to
defray any expense incurred by the City in the removal or demolition of the
model dwelling or dwellings. The bond shall be released to the property owner
or person legally entitled thereto either upon recordation of the subdivision
tract map or upon removal of the concerned structures or buildings, as the
case may be, to the satisfaction of the Superintendent of Building. (Amended
by Ord. No. 158,561. Eff. 1/14/84.)



 



   (l)   This subdivision shall apply to approved or conditionally
approved tentative tract maps which include model dwelling units and which
have not been recorded as of the effective date of this ordinance.  (Added
by Ord. No. 158,561, Eff. 1/14/84.)



 



   11.   (Amended by Ord. No. 145,410, Eff. 2/16/74.) Notwithstanding
any other provisions of this article, a real estate tract sales office may be
established and maintained in one model dwelling approved in accordance with
the provisions of Section 12.22 A.10. or in a dwelling constructed on a
recorded lot previously designated as a model dwelling site by the Advisory
Agency and temporarily serving as an example of houses or units built or to
be built in the same subdivision, provided that:



 



   (a)   No general real estate brokerage business is conducted on the
premises, and any business transacted thereon is limited to the original sale
of vacant or improved land shown on the tentative map or units of airspace
shown on the condominium plan.



 



   (b)   All name plates and signs conform to the provisions of Section
12.21 A.7.



 



   (c)   The tract sales office is attractively maintained and, where
located in a one-family detached structure, is attractively landscaped.



 



   (d)   The property owner has first executed and filed with the
Superintendent of Building a notarized agreement agreeing to comply with all
other provisions of this Subdivision and, further, agreeing that after all
dwelling units in the development are initially sold or rented, all tract
sales being conducted within the structure will cease; all signs will be
entirely removed from the premises; any residential type of sliding glass
door in a private garage doorway will be replaced with a conventional private
garage door, and any sales office activity located in a private garage will
be discontinued and this area reconverted for the storage of private
vehicles. (Amended by Ord. No. 158,561, Eff. 1/14/84.)



 



   12.   (Added by Ord. No. 149,472, Eff. 5/14/77.) Notwithstanding any
other provision of this article, equipment and material storage yards used
exclusively in connection with public facilities projects may be located in
the A, R and C Zones, provided the following conditions are complied with.



 



   (a)   That such storage activities not be commenced prior to the
execution of the construction contract with the governmental entity
authorizing such work, and such storage activity be terminated within 30 days
of the expiration of the contract or 30 days after completion of the
construction, whichever comes first.



 



   (b)   That no storage or related activities be located closer than
25 feet to any residential improvement unless a solid 8 foot high fence be
constructed along the entire property line adjoining such improvement, except
at parking of employees’ personal vehicles shall be permitted within the 25
foot buffer area, and such parking area need not comply with the requirements
of Section 12.21 A.6. of this article.



 



   (c)   That the premises and grounds be frequently sprinkled and
watered to prevent dust from becoming a nuisance to the neighboring residents.



 



   (d)   That there be no stockpiling of materials above 8 feet.



 



   (e)   That hours of operation including servicing and maintenance of
all stored equipment be only between 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., and at no time
on Saturdays, Sundays or holidays except in emergencies.



 



   Prior to the use of any land for equipment and material storage
activities pursuant to this Subdivision, the operator or operators of such
storage yard shall obtain a certificate of occupancy of land as provided for
in Section 12.26 E. of the Los Angeles Municipal Code. Where it can be shown
to the satisfaction of the Superintendent of Building that the conditions of
this Subdivision are not being complied with, the Superintendent may revoke
the certificate of occupancy. Such revocation may be appealed to the Board of
Building and Safety Commissioners pursuant to the provisions of Section
98.0403 of this Code.



 



   13.   Infrequent Use of Property for Commercial Filming.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 170,516, Eff. 6/18/95.)  Notwithstanding any of the provisions
of this article to the contrary, property in all zones may be used for the
purpose of infrequent filming of commercial motion pictures and still
photographs, provided that a permit therefor has first been obtained from the
City Council, or whomever the Council by order, resolution or ordinance may
delegate such authority.  The City Council, or whomever the Council by
order, resolution or ordinance may delegate such authority shall adopt such
rules and regulations concerning the issuance of said permits as may be
necessary to assure that filming will be conducted at such times and in such
a manner as to cause a minimum of interference with the enjoyment and use of
adjacent property, and consistent with public health, safety and general
welfare.



 



   14.   (None)



 



   15.   Parking Requirements For Showcase Theaters.  (Added by Ord No
148,910, Eff. 11/18/76.)  Notwithstanding any provision of this article to
the contrary, the parking for showcase theaters required under Section 12.21
A.4.(e) (g) (i) (m); Section 12.21 A.5.; and Section 12.26 C. and 12.26 E.5.
may be provided on the site, or off the site under a written agreement
approved by the City Attorney and the Superintendent of Building. Where
off-site parking is provided under any written agreement other than a Parking
Covenant, such agreement shall be for a minimum of one year and shall be
signed by the theater operator and the lessee or owner of the property upon
which the required parking spaces shall be located. This agreement shall
remain in effect for the duration of the existence of the showcase theater.
Such agreement shall be filed with the Department of Building and Safety.



 



   Where the parking covenant or other written agreement provides for
parking on a lot which does not meet the design standards set forth in
Section 12.21 A.5. and 12.21 A.6., but which parking area met the applicable
Municipal Code design standard when originally established, such spaces shall
be accepted for purposes of this Subdivision without compliance with the
provisions of Section 12.21 A.5. and 12.21 A.6.



 



   16.   Outside Automobile Hoists. (Amended by Ord. No. 172,468, Eff.
4/1/99.)  Any type of outside automobile hoist in the C2, C4, C5, CM or M1
Zones is prohibited.



 



   17.   Temporary Residency in Residential Vehicle Pending
Reconstruction of Disaster – Destroyed Dwelling.  (Added by Ord. No.
153,144, Eff. 12/28/79.)



 



   (a)   Use of Land Permit. Notwithstanding any other provision of
this Code to the contrary, the Department of Building and Safety may issue a
use of land permit to any resident–owner of a single–family dwelling
destroyed by disaster to temporarily place and reside in a residential
vehicle upon the subject property. Such use of land permit shall be limited
to a period of one year from the date of the subject disaster, during which
period a building permit for the reconstruction of the subject dwelling unit
must be obtained. When such a building permit is obtained the use of land
permit shall be valid for an additional period to total no more than two
years from the date of the subject disaster or until the dwelling unit is
complete, whichever occurs first. No other extension of time shall be granted
for such use of land permit.



 



   (b)   Fence Requirement. Where a residential vehicle is placed
within a required yard area, such residential vehicle shall be screened from
public view by a fence constructed to the specifications of Section 91.4401
(c) of this Code; on corner lots, the restrictions of Section 62.200 of this
Code shall also apply. Such fence shall be maintained in good condition and
appearance.



 



   (c)   Yard Area Requirements.  Such residential vehicle must
observe five–foot front, side and rear yards and adequate access shall be
assured to permit the removal of such residential vehicle after
reconstruction of the disaster-destroyed dwelling unit.



 



   (d)   Site Restoration. Within thirty (30) days of the removal of
the residential vehicle, all equipment and utilities accessory to such
residential vehicle and any nonconforming fence constructed pursuant to this
section shall be removed and the site restored to permitted use and condition.



 



   18.   Developments Combining Residential and Commercial Uses. Except
where the provisions of Section 12.24.1 of this Code apply, notwithstanding
any other provision of this chapter to the contrary, the following uses shall
be permitted in the following zones subject to the following limitations: 
(Amended by Ord. No. 163,679, Eff. 7/18/88.)



 



   (a)   Any use permitted in the R5 Zone on any lot in the CR, C1,
C1.5, C2, C4 or C5 Zones provided that such lot is located within the Central
City Community Plan Area or within an area designated on an adopted community
plan as "Regional Center" or "Regional Commercial".  Any combination of R5
uses and the uses permitted in the underlying commercial zone shall also be
permitted on such lot. (Amended by Ord. No. 182,452, Eff. 4/4/13.)



 



   (b)   Any use permitted in the CR, C1, C1.5, C2, C4 or C5 Zones on
any lot in the R5 Zone provided that the lot is located within the Central
City Community Plan Area.  Any combination of these commercial and
residential uses shall also be permitted on the lot.  Commercial uses or any
combination of commercial and residential uses may be permitted on any lot in
the R5 Zone by conditional use pursuant to Section 12.24 W.15. outside the
Central City Community Plan Area.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,452, Eff.
4/4/13.)



 



   (c)   Yards. Except as provided herein, the yard requirements of the
zone in which the lot is located shall apply.



 



   (1)   The yard requirements of the C2 Zone shall apply to buildings
located on lots in the R5 Zone in a redevelopment project area approved by
the City Council if such buildings are used exclusively for commercial uses.



 



   (2)   The following yard requirements shall apply to buildings
located on lots in the R5 Zone which are used for any combination of
commercial and residential uses:



 



   (i)   The yard requirements of the C2 Zone shall apply to the
portions of such buildings used exclusively for commercial uses.



 



   (ii)   No yard requirements shall apply to the portions of such
buildings which are used exclusively for residential uses and which abut a
street, private street or alley, if the first floor of such buildings at
ground level is used for commercial uses or access to the residential
portions of such buildings.



 



   (3)   No yard requirements shall apply to the residential portions
of buildings located on lots in the CR, C1, C1.5, C2, C4, and C5 Zones used
for combined commercial and residential uses, if such portions are used
exclusively for residential uses, abut a street, private street or alley, and
the first floor of such buildings at ground level is used for commercial uses
or for access to the residential portions of such buildings.



 



   (4)   No yards shall be required along air space lot boundaries
within the interior of buildings.



 



   (d)   The residential and commercial density, maximum floor area or
height otherwise permitted for any lot shall not be increased by reason of
the existence of one or more air space lots.



 



   (e)   Pedestrian Bridges. Residential uses in a building combining
residential and commercial uses shall be limited to the floors above the
level of a connecting pedway or pedestrian bridge except that the Director of
Planning may modify or waive this requirement if the Director finds unusual
topography or other special circumstances justify such modification or waiver.



 



   (f)   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.) In the event of
a conflict between the terms of this subdivision and the terms of a specific
plan enacted prior to December 31, 1981, the terms of the specific plan shall
prevail.  The terms of this subdivision shall not apply within the
boundaries of the Century City North Specific Plan.



 



   19.   Dwelling Adjacent to An Equinekeeping Use.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.) Notwithstanding any provision of this Code to
the contrary, the City shall not issue a building permit for a residential
building (excluding non-habitable rooms) that is less than 35 feet from a
legally established equine use, unless the Zoning Administrator makes an
exception in accordance with Section 12.24 X.5.



 



   20.   Adult Entertainment Businesses. (Amended by Ord. No. 161,111,
Eff. 5/18/86.)



 



   (a)   Exceptions from Section 12.70 C.



 



   (i)   A person may establish and maintain, or continue to operate,
an adult entertainment business on a lot within 500 feet of an “A” or
“R” Zone, or within the “CR”, “C1” or “C1.5” Zones, if a site
consistent with Section 12.70 C. is not reasonably available elsewhere in the
City for the establishment or relocation of the subject adult entertainment
business. This exception shall only apply to an adult entertainment business
which is otherwise in compliance with all other provisions of this chapter
including Section 12.70 C.



 



   A site is “reasonably available” elsewhere in the City if it meets
all of the following criteria:



 



   (1)   Its use as the proposed adult entertainment business is
consistent with all applicable zoning regulations, including Section 12.70 C.



 



   (2)   It is available for use, purchase, or rental as an adult
entertainment business.



 



   (3)   It has adequate street access, street lighting, and sidewalks.



 



   (4)   It is at least 500 feet away from any uses which are or may
become obnoxious or offensive by reason of emission of odor, dust, smoke,
noise, gas, fumes, cinders, refuse matter or water carried waste.



 



   This exception shall not apply to massage parlors or sexual encounter
establishments.



 



   (ii)   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.) To apply for an
exception, an applicant shall file an application with the Department of City
Planning, on a form provided by the Department, identifying the present or
proposed location of the adult entertainment business, and accompanied by
data supporting the proposed exception and the fee provided for in Section
19.01 of this Code.



 



   The procedures described in Section 12.24 shall be followed to the
extent applicable.  However, a hearing shall be held and a decision made
within 60 days from the date of filing of an application.  This time limit
may be extended by mutual written consent of the applicant and the Zoning
Administrator.  An exception shall be approved if it meets the requirements
of Subparagraph (i) above.



 



   An appeal from the determination of the Zoning Administrator on whether
a proposed exception meets the requirements of Subparagraph (i) may be taken
to the Area Planning Commission in the same manner as prescribed in Section
12.24 I.  The Area Planning Commission’s decision may be appealed to the
City Council.  The appeal to the Council shall follow the procedures set
forth in Section 12.24 I. However, a decision on any appeal shall be made
within 30 days of the expiration of the appeal period.  This time limit may
be extended by mutual written consent of the applicant and the Area Planning
Commission or Council, whichever then has jurisdiction over the appeal.



 



   If the Zoning Administrator, Area Planning Commission or Council
disapproves an exception, then it shall make findings of fact showing how a
site consistent with Section 12.70 C. is reasonably available elsewhere in
the City for the establishment or relocation of the subject adult
entertainment business.



 



   (b)  Extensions of the Section 12.70 C. Amortization Period.



 



   (i)   An adult entertainment business existing on March 6,1986 and
operating within 500 feet of a lot in an “A” Zone of “R” Zone or,
within the “CR”, “C1”, or “C1.5” Zones may be continued, as
specified below:



 



   (1)   If the adult entertainment business is otherwise in compliance
with all other provisions of this chapter including Section 12.70 C.; and



 



   (2)   If the adult entertainment business is subject to a written
lease, entered into prior to March 6, 1986, with a termination date extending
beyond March 6, 1988, then the adult entertainment. business may continue
until the expiration of the present term of the lease but no later than March
6, 1991; or



 



   (3)   If the adult entertainment business invokes the investment of
money in real property, improvements, or stocks in trade such that a
termination date beyond March 6, 1988 is necessary to prevent undue financial
hardship, then it may be continued until March 6, 1991.



 



   (ii)   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.) To apply for an
extension of time, an applicant shall file an application with the Department
of City Planning, on a form provided by the Department, identifying the
present or proposed location of the adult entertainment business, and
accompanied by data supporting the extension request and the fee provided for
in Section 19.01 of this Code.  An extension shall be approved if it meets
the requirements of Subparagraph (i) above.



 



   The procedures described in Section 12.24 shall be followed to the
extent applicable.  However, a hearing shall be held and a decision made
within 60 days from the date of filing.  This time limit may be extended by
mutual written consent of the applicant and the Zoning Administrator.



 



   An appeal from the determination of the Zoning Administrator on whether
a proposed exception meets the requirements of Subparagraph (i) may be taken
to the Area Planning Commission in the same manner as prescribed in Section
12.24I.  The Area Planning Commission’s decision may be appealed to the
City Council.  The appeal to the Council shall follow the procedures set
forth in Section 12.24I.  However, a decision on any appeal shall be made
within 30 days of the expiration of the appeal period.  This time limit may
be extended by mutual written consent of the applicant and the Area Planning
Commission or Council, whichever then has jurisdiction over the appeal.



 



   If the Zoning Administrator, Area Planning Commission or Council
disapproves an extension, then it shall make findings of fact showing how the
proposed extension fails to meet the requirements of Subparagraph (i).



 



   21.   (Deleted by Ord. No. 171,687, Eff. 8/19/97.)



 



   22.   (Deleted by Ord. No. 170,752, Eff. 12/14/95.)



 



   23.   Mini-Shopping Centers and Commercial Corner Development. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 175,223, Eff. 6/30/03.)  If the requirements set forth
in Paragraph (a) and the conditions set forth in Paragraph (b) of this
subdivision are met, and the proposed use or uses are not enumerated in
Section 12.24 W.27., then a conditional use approval pursuant to Section
12.24 W.27. shall not be required for any new use, change of use or addition
of floor area to a Mini-Shopping Center or a Commercial Corner Development.



 



   (a)   Development Standards.



 



   (1)   Height.  Buildings or structures located in Height District
Nos. 1 and 1-L shall not exceed a maximum height of 45 feet.  However,
buildings or structures shall comply with the provisions of Section 12.21.1
A.10., “Transitional Height,” of this Code.



 



   (2)   Front Yard.  The front yard requirements set forth in
Sections 12.12.2 C., 12.13 C.1. and 12.13.5 B.1. of this Code shall not apply
to Mini-Shopping Centers or Commercial Corner Developments.



 



   (3)    Windows.  The exterior walls and doors of a ground floor
containing non- residential uses that front adjacent streets shall consist of
at least fifty percent transparent windows, unless otherwise prohibited by
law.



 



   (4)   Parking.



 



   (i)   Notwithstanding Section 12.21 A.5.(h) of this Code to the
contrary, no tandem parking shall be permitted, except those spaces reserved
exclusively for residential use.



 



   (ii)    Bicycle parking shall be provided as required by Section
12.21 A.16. of this Code.



 



   (iii)   Parking in the Downtown Business District shall be provided
as required by Section 12.21 A.4.(i) of this Code.



 



   (5)   Lighting.  All public areas of the lot or lots not covered by
a building shall have night lighting for safety and security.  All other
open exterior areas, such as walkways and trash areas, shall have low-level,
security-type lighting.  All exterior lighting shall be directed onto the
lot or lots, and all flood lighting shall be designed to eliminate glare to
adjoining properties.  All parking areas shall have a minimum of 3/4
foot-candle of flood lighting measured at the pavement.



 



   (6)   Signs.



 



   (i)   In addition to the requirements set forth in Division 62 of
this Code, no person shall erect on the lot or lots the following signs, as
defined in Section 91.6203 of this Code without first obtaining a conditional
use permit:  pole signs; projecting signs; or roof signs.



 



   (ii)   Monument signs and information signs shall be located only
within the landscape-planted areas of the lot or lots.



 



   (7)   Utilities.  All new utility lines which directly service the
lot or lots shall be installed underground.  If underground service is not
currently available, then provisions shall be made for future underground
service.



 



   (8)   Walls and Trash Storage.  A solid masonry wall at least six
feet in height shall be erected along the lot lines of the lot or lots where
the lot or lots abut or are across an alley from any residential zone or use,
except for that portion of the lot line where an access driveway is required
by the City.  Trash storage bins shall be located within a gated, covered
enclosure constructed of materials identical to the exterior wall materials
of the building.



 



   (9)   Recycling Area or Room.  Every Mini-Shopping Center or
Commercial Corner Development shall conform to the requirements of Section
12.21 A.19.(c) of this Code.



 



   (10)   Landscaping.  All landscaping shall comply with Sections
12.41, 12.42 and 12.43 of this Code and the following requirements: 



 



   (i)   Landscaping - Setback.  (Amended by Ord. No. 177,103, Eff.
12/18/05.)  A landscaped, planted area having a minimum inside width of five
feet shall be required along all street frontages of the lot and on the
perimeters of all parking areas of the lot or lots which abut a residential
zone or use.



 



   Notwithstanding the above, in the Downtown Business District as defined
in Section 12.21 A.4.(i) of this Code, a landscape (planted) area having a
minimum inside width of five feet shall be required on the perimeters of all
parking areas of the lot which abut a residential zone or use.



 



   (ii)   Irrigation System.  An automatic irrigation system shall be
provided for all landscaped areas.  This system shall be installed prior to
the issuance of any certificate of occupancy.



 



   (b)   Conditions of Operation. A Mini-Shopping Center or a
Commercial Corner Development shall comply with the following conditions:



 



   (1)   Maintenance.  The condition of the lot or lots, including but
not limited to parking areas, exterior walls, required lighting, and
landscaped areas, shall at all times be maintained in a safe and sanitary
condition and in a state of good repair.  Exterior wall surfaces shall at
all times be kept free from graffiti and any marks of vandalism.



 



   (2)   Debris Removal.  The lot or lots shall at all times be kept
clear of weeds, rubbish, and all types of litter and combustible materials. 
Trash receptacles shall be located throughout the open areas of the lot or
lots.



 



   (3)   Hours.  Parking lot cleaning and sweeping, and trash
collections from and deliveries to a Mini-Shopping Center or Commercial
Corner Development, shall occur no earlier than 7 a.m., nor later than 8
p.m., Monday through Friday, and no earlier than 10 a.m., nor later than 4
p.m., on Saturdays and Sundays.



 



   (4)   Landscape Maintenance.  Maintenance of landscaped areas shall
include continuous operations of watering, removal of weeds, mowing,
trimming, edging, cultivation, reseeding, plant replacement, fertilization,
spraying, control of pests, insects, and rodents, or other operations
necessary to assure normal plant growth.  All trees, shrubs and ground cover
shall be maintained as healthy and vigorous at all times.  Irrigation
systems, installed pursuant to the requirements in Subsubparagraph
(a)(10)(ii) above shall be continuously maintained in accordance with Section
12.41 B.5. of this Code.



 



   (5)   Covenant.  Prior to the issuance of a building permit or land
use permit, the owner of the lot or lots shall execute and record a covenant
and agreement in a form satisfactory to the Director of Planning,
acknowledging that the owner shall implement each of the conditions set forth
in Paragraph (b) of this subdivision, and shall not permit the erection of
any of the signs enumerated in Paragraph (a)(6) of this subdivision or the
establishment of any uses enumerated in Section 12.24 W.27. of this Code
without first obtaining a conditional use approval.  The covenant and
agreement shall run with the land and be binding upon the owners, and any
assignees, lessees, heirs, and successors of the owners.  The City’s right
to enforce the covenant and agreement is in addition to any other remedy
provided by law.



 



   (c)   Existing Building Changed to Mini-Shopping Center or
Commercial Corner Development.



 



   (1)   An existing building or buildings may be converted to a
Mini-Shopping Center or to a Commercial Corner Development without first
obtaining a conditional use approval if all of the following requirements are
met: 



 



   (i)   all alterations result in no more than a twenty percent
increase in the existing floor area of all of the buildings on a lot or lots;



 



   (ii)   the proposed Mini-Shopping Center or the Commercial Corner
Development use or uses are not enumerated in Section 12.24 W.27.;



 



   (iii)   no sign identified in Paragraph (a)(6) of this subdivision
shall be erected on the site; and



 



   (iv)   the proposed Mini-Shopping Center or the Commercial Corner
Development complies with the conditions of operation of Paragraph (b) of
this subdivision.



 



   (2)   For an existing Mini-Shopping Center, or existing Commercial
Corner Development use, no person shall establish as a new use, any of the
uses enumerated in Section 12.24 W.27. of this subdivision without first
obtaining a conditional use approval.



 



   (d)   Exemptions. The following Projects shall not be subject to
this subdivision:



 



   (1)   A Mixed Use Project as defined in Section 13.09 B.3. that
consists of predominantly residential uses and does not contain commercial
uses enumerated in Section 12.24 W.27.;



 



   (2)   Adaptive Reuse Projects as defined in Section 12.22 A.26.; and



 



   (3)   Libraries, governmental offices, police stations, fire
stations, and other government owned related facilities or uses.



 



   (e)   Specific Plan Compliance.  If, as determined by the Director
of Planning or his/her designee, the provisions of this Section conflict with
those of an adopted Specific Plan, then the provisions of the Specific Plan
shall prevail.



 



   24.   Mobile Medical Facilities and Bloodmobiles.  (Added by Ord.
No. 166,045, Eff. 8/17/90.)



 



   (a)   Notwithstanding any provision of this article to the contrary,
any mobile medical facility may operate once a month for no more than 72
consecutive hours, in any single established parking area, in the P, PB, CR,
C1, C1.5, C2, C4, CM, M1, M2 and M3 Zones, provided the parking area meets
all requirements of the Municipal Code for a parking area and the operation
of the facility does not obstruct any driveway access aisle or required
parking space.



 



   (b)   Notwithstanding any provision of the article to the contrary,
any bloodmobile may operate once a month for no more than 72 consecutive
hours, in any single established parking area in any zone, provided the
parking area meets all requirements of the Municipal Code for a parking area
and the operation of the bloodmobile does not obstruct any driveway access
aisle or required parking space.



 



   (c)   Notwithstanding any provision of this article to the contrary,
any mobile medical facility may operate once a week for no more that 72
consecutive hours, in any single established hospital parking area, in the P,
PB, CR, C1, C1.5, C2, C4, CM, M1, M2 and M3 zones, provided the parking area
meets all requirements of the Municipal Code for a parking area and the
operation of the facility does not obstruct any driveway access aisle or
required parking space.  (Added by Ord. No. 170,161, Eff. 1/16/95.)



 



   25.   Affordable Housing Incentives - Density Bonus.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 179,681, Eff. 4/15/08.)



 



   (a)   Purpose.  The purpose of this subdivision is to establish
procedures for implementing State Density Bonus requirements, as set forth in
California Government Code Sections 65915-65918, and to increase the
production of affordable housing, consistent with City policies.



 



   (b)   Definitions.  Notwithstanding any provision of this Code to
the contrary, the following definitions shall apply to this subdivision:



 



   Affordable Housing Incentives Guidelines - the guidelines approved by
the City Planning Commission under which Housing Development Projects for
which a Density Bonus has been requested are evaluated for compliance with
the requirements of this subdivision.



 



   Area Median Income (AMI) - the median income in Los Angeles County as
determined annually by the California Department of Housing and Community
Development (HCD) or any successor agency, adjusted for household size.



 



   Density Bonus - a density increase over the otherwise maximum allowable
residential density under the applicable zoning ordinance and/or specific
plan granted pursuant to this subdivision.



 



   Density Bonus Procedures - procedures to implement the City’s Density
Bonus program developed by the Departments of Building and Safety, City
Planning and Housing.



 



   Disabled Person - a person who has a physical or mental impairment that
limits one or more major life activities, anyone who is regarded as having
that type of an impairment or, anyone who has a record of having that type of
an impairment.



 



   Floor Area Ratio - the multiplier applied to the total buildable area
of the lot to determine the total floor area of all buildings on a lot.



 



   Housing Development Project - the construction of five or more new
residential dwelling units, the addition of five or more residential dwelling
units to an existing building or buildings, the remodeling of a building or
buildings containing five or more residential dwelling units, or a mixed use
development in which the residential floor area occupies at least fifty
percent of the total floor area of the building or buildings.  For the
purpose of establishing the minimum number of five dwelling units, Restricted
Affordable Units shall be included and density bonus units shall be excluded.



 



   Incentive - a modification to a City development standard or
requirement of Chapter I of this Code (zoning).



 



   Income, Very Low, Low or Moderate - annual income of a household that
does not exceed the amounts designated for each income category as determined
by HCD or any successor agency.



 



   Residential Hotel - any building containing six or more Guest Rooms or
Efficiency Dwelling Units, which are intended or designed to be used, or are
used, rented, or hired out to be occupied, or are occupied for sleeping
purposes by guests, so long as the Guest Rooms or Efficiency Dwelling Units
are also the primary residence of those guests, but not including any
building containing six or more Guest Rooms or Efficiency Dwelling Units,
which is primarily used by transient guests who do not occupy that building
as their primary residence.



 



   Residential Unit - a dwelling unit or joint living and work quarters; a
mobilehome, as defined in California Health and Safety Code Section 18008; a
mobile home lot in a mobilehome park, as defined in California Health and
Safety Code Section 18214; or a Guest Room or Efficiency Dwelling Unit in a
Residential Hotel.



 



   Restricted Affordable Unit - a residential unit for which rental or
mortgage amounts are restricted so as to be affordable to and occupied by
Very Low, Low or Moderate Income households, as determined by the Housing and
Community Investment Department.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,718, Eff.
10/30/13.)



 



   Senior Citizens - individuals who are at least 62 years of age, except
that for projects of at least 35 units that are subject to this subdivision,
a threshold of 55 years of age may be used, provided all applicable City,
state and federal regulations are met.



 



   Senior Citizen Housing Develop- ment- a Housing Development Project for
senior citizens that has at least 35 units.



 



   Specific Adverse Impact - a significant, quantifiable, direct, and
unavoidable impact, based on objective, identified written public health or
safety standards, policies, or conditions as they existed on the date the
application was deemed complete.



 



   Transit Stop/Major Employment Center - any one of the following:



 



   (1)   A station stop for a fixed transit guideway or a fixed rail
system that is currently in use or whose location is proposed and for which a
full funding contract has been signed by all funding partners, or one for
which a resolution to fund a preferred alignment has been adopted by the Los
Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority or its successor agency;
or



 



   (2)   A Metro Rapid Bus stop located along a Metro Rapid Bus route;
or, for a Housing Development Project consisting entirely of Restricted
Affordable Units, any bus stop located along a Metro Rapid Bus route; or



 



   (3)   The boundaries of the following three major economic activity
areas, identified in the General Plan Framework Element:  Downtown, LAX and
the Port of Los Angeles; or



 



   (4)   The boundaries of a college or university campus with an
enrollment exceeding 10,000 students.



 



   (c)   Density Bonus.  Notwithstanding any provision of this Code to
the contrary, the following provisions shall apply to the grant of a Density
Bonus for a Housing Development Project:



 



   (1)   For Sale or Rental Housing with Low or Very Low Income
Restricted Affordable Units.  A Housing Develop- ment Project that includes
10% of the total units of the project for Low Income households or 5% of the
total units of the project for Very Low Income households, either in rental
units or for sale units, shall be granted a minimum Density Bonus of 20%,
which may be applied to any part of the Housing Development Project.  The
bonus may be increased according to the percentage of affordable housing
units provided, as follows, but shall not exceed 35%:



 



 




Percentage


Low Income Units
 
Percentage

Density Bonus


10
 
20


11
 
21.5


12
 
23


13
 
24.5


14
 
26


15
 
27.5


16
 
29


17
 
30.5


18
 
32


19
 
33.5


20
 
35




 



 




Percentage



Very Low Income Units

 
Percentage

Density Bonus


5
 
20


6
 
22.5


7
 
25


8
 
27.5


9
 
30


10
 
32.5


11
 
35




 



   (2)   For Sale or Rental Senior Citizen Housing (Market Rate).  A
Senior Citizen Housing Development or a mobile- home park that limits
residency based on age requirements for housing for older persons pursuant to
California Civil Code Sections 798.76 or 799.5 shall be granted a minimum
Density Bonus of 20%.



 



   (3)   (Deleted by Ord. No. 181,142, Eff. 6/1/10.)



 



   (4)   A Common Interest Develop-ment That Includes Moderate Income
Restricted Affordable Units.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,142, Eff. 6/1/10.) 
A common interest development as defined in Section 1351 of the Civil Code
that includes at least 10% of its units for Moderate Income households shall
be granted a minimum Density Bonus of 5%.  The bonus may be increased
according to the percentage of affordable housing units provided, as follows,
but shall not exceed 35%:



 



 




Percentage
Moderate Income Units

 

Percentage
Density Bonus


10
 
5


11
 
6


12
 
7


13
 
8


14
 
9


15
 
10


16
 
11


17
 
12


18
 
13


19
 
14


20
 
15


21
 
16


22
 
17


23
 
18


24
 
19


25
 
20


26
 
21


27
 
22


28
 
23


29
 
24


30
 
25


31
 
26


32
 
27


33
 
28


34
 
29


35
 
30


36
 
31


37
 
32


38
 
33


39
 
34


40
 
35




 



   (5)   Land Donation.  An applicant for a subdivision, parcel map or
other residential development approval that donates land for housing to the
City of Los Angeles satisfying the criteria of California Government Code
Section 65915(h)(2), as verified by the Department of City Planning, shall be
granted a minimum Density Bonus of 15%.



 



   (6)   Child Care.  A Housing Development Project that conforms to
the requirements of Subparagraphs (1), (2), (3), (4) or (5) of this paragraph
and includes a child care facility located on the premises of, as part of, or
adjacent to, the project, shall be granted either of the following:



 



   (i)   an additional Density Bonus that is, for purposes of
calculating residential density, an increase in the floor area of the project
equal to the floor area of the child care facility included in the project.



 



   (ii)   An additional Incentive that contributes significantly to the
economic feasibility of the construction of the child care facility.



 



   (7)   Fractional Units.  In calculating Density Bonus and
Restricted Affordable units, any number resulting in a fraction shall be
rounded up to the next whole number.



 



   (8)   Other Discretionary Approval.  Approval of Density Bonus
units shall not, in and of itself, trigger other discretionary approvals
required by the Code.



 



   (9)   Other Affordable Housing Subsidies.  Approval of Density
Bonus units does not, in and of itself, preclude projects from receipt of
other government subsidies for affordable housing.



 



   (10)   Additional Option for Restricted Affordable Units located
near Transit Stop/Major Employment Center.  In lieu of providing the
requisite number of Restricted Affordable Units in a Housing Development
Project located in or within 1,500 feet of a Transit Stop/Major Employ- ment
Center that would otherwise be required under this subdivision, an applicant
may opt to provide a greater number of smaller units, provided that:



 



   (i)   the total number of units in the Housing Development Project
including Density Bonus units does not exceed the maximum permitted by this
subdivision;



 



   (ii)   the square footage of the aggregate smaller Restricted
Affordable units is equal to or greater than the square footage of the
aggregate Restricted Affordable Units that would otherwise be required under
this subdivision;



 



   (iii)   the smaller Restricted Affordable units are distributed
throughout the building and have proportionally the same number of bedrooms
as the market rate units; and



 



   (iv)   the smaller Restricted Affordable Units meet the minimum unit
size requirements established by the Low Income Housing Tax Credit Program as
administered by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee (TCAC).



 



   (11)   Common Interest Development with Low or Very Low Income
restricted Affordable Units for Rent.  In a common interest development as
defined in California Government Code Section 1351, such as a condominium,
Restricted Affordable Units may be for sale or for rent.



 



   (12)   Condominium Conversion.  A Housing Development Project that
involves the conversion of apartments into condominiums and that includes 33
percent of its units restricted to households of Low or Moderate income or 15
percent of its units restricted to households of Very Low Income shall be
granted a Density Bonus of 25 percent or up to three incentives as provided
in Paragraph (e) of this subdivision.



 



   (d)   Parking in a Housing Development Project.  Required parking
spaces for a Housing Development Project that is for sale or for rent and
qualifies for a Density Bonus and complies with this subdivision may be
provided by complying with whichever of the following options requires the
least amount of parking:  applicable parking provisions of Section 12.21
A.4. of this Code, or Parking Option 1 or Parking Option 2, below.  Required
parking in a Housing Development Project that qualifies for a Density Bonus
may be sold or rented separately from the dwelling units, so that buyers and
tenants have the option of purchasing or renting a unit without a parking
space.  The separate sale or rental of a dwelling unit and a parking space
shall not cause the rent or purchase price of a Restricted Affordable Unit
(or the parking space) to be greater than it would otherwise have been.



 



   (1)   Parking Option 1.  Required parking for all residential units
in the Housing Development Project (not just the restricted units), inclusive
of handicapped and guest parking, shall be reduced to the following
requirements:



 



   (i)   For each Residential Unit of 0-1 bedroom:  1 on-site parking
space.



 



   (ii)   For each Residential Unit of 2-3 bedrooms:  2 on-site
parking spaces.



 



   (iii)   For each Residential Unit of 4 or more bedrooms:  2-1/2
on-site parking spaces.



 



   (2)   Parking Option 2.  Required parking for the Restricted
Affordable Units only shall be reduced as set forth in Subparagraphs (i) and
(ii) below.  Required parking for all other non-restricted units in the
Housing Development Project shall comply with applicable provisions of
Section 12.21 of this Code.



 



   (i)   One parking space per Restricted Affordable Unit, except:



 



   a.   0.5 parking space for each dwelling unit restricted to Low or
Very Low Income Senior Citizens or Disabled Persons; and/or



 



   b.   0.25 parking space for each Restricted Affordable Unit in a
Residential Hotel.



 



   (ii)   Up to 40% of the required parking for the Restricted
Affordable Units may be provided by compact stalls.



 



   (e)   Incentives.



 



   (1)   In addition to the Density Bonus and parking options
identified in Paragraphs (c) and (d) of this subdivision, a Housing
Development Project that qualifies for a Density Bonus shall be granted the
number of Incentives set forth in the table below.



 



 


Number of Incentiv.es

 

Required Percentage* of Units Restricted for Very Low Income Households

 

Required Percentage* of Units Restricted for Low Income Households

 

Required Percentage* of Units Restricted for Moderate Income Households (For
Sale Only)




One Incentive

 

5%              or

 

10%              or

 

10%




Two Incentives

 

10%            or

 

20%              or

 

20%




Three Incentives

 

15%            or

 

30%              or

 

30%




 



* Excluding Density Bonus units.



 



   (2)   To be eligible for any on-menu incentives, a Housing
Development Project (other than an Adaptive Reuse project) shall comply with
the following:



 



   (i)   The facade of any portion of a building that abuts a street
shall be articulated with a change of material or with a break in plane, so
that the facade is not a flat surface.



 



   (ii)   All buildings must be oriented to the street by providing
entrances, windows, architectural features and/or balconies on the front and
along any street-facing elevations.



 



   (iii)   The Housing Development Project shall not be a contributing
structure in a designated Historic Preservation Overlay Zone and shall not be
on the City of Los Angeles list of Historical-Cultural Monuments.



 



   (iv)   The Housing Development Project shall not be located on a
substandard street in a Hillside Area or in a Very High Fire Hazard Severity
Zone as established in Section 57.4908 of this Code.



 



   (f)   Menu of Incentives.  Housing Development Projects that meet
the qualifications of Paragraph (e) of this subdivision may request one or
more of the following Incentives, as applicable:



 



   (1)   Yard/Setback.  Up to 20% decrease in the required width or
depth of any individual yard or setback except along any property line that
abuts an R1 or more restrictively zoned property provided that the
landscaping for the Housing Development Project is sufficient to qualify for
the number of landscape points equivalent to 10% more than otherwise required
by Section 12.40 of this Code and Landscape Ordinance Guidelines "O."



 



   (2)   Lot Coverage. Up to 20% increase in lot coverage limits,
provided that the landscaping for the Housing Development Project is
sufficient to qualify for the number of landscape points equivalent to 10%
more than otherwise required by Section 12.40 of this Code and Landscape
Ordinance Guidelines “O”.



 



   (3)   Lot Width.  Up to 20% decrease from a lot width requirement,
provided that the landscaping for the Housing Development Project is
sufficient to qualify for the number of landscape points equivalent to 10%
more than otherwise required by Section 12.40 of this Code and Landscape
Ordinance Guidelines “O”.



 



   (4)   Floor Area Ratio.



 



   (i)   A percentage increase in the allowable Floor Area Ratio equal
to the percentage of Density Bonus for which the Housing Development Project
is eligible, not to exceed 35%; or



 



   (ii)   In lieu of the otherwise applicable Floor Area Ratio, a Floor
Area Ratio not to exceed 3:1, provided the parcel is in a  commercial zone
in Height District 1 (including 1VL, 1L and 1XL), and fronts on a Major
Highway as identified in the City’s General Plan, and



 



   a.   the Housing Develop- ment Project includes the number of
Restricted Affordable Units sufficient to qualify for a 35% Density Bonus, and



 



   b.   50% or more of the commercially zoned parcel is located in or
within 1,500 feet of a Transit Stop/Major Employ- ment Center.



 



   A Housing Development Project in which at least 80% of the units in a
rental project are Restricted Affordable Units or in which 45% of the units
in a for-sale project are Restricted Affordable Units shall be exempt from
the requirement to front on a Major Highway.



 



   (5)   Height.  A percentage increase in the height requirement in
feet equal to the percentage of Density Bonus for which the Housing
Development Project is eligible.  This percentage increase in height shall
be applicable over the entire parcel regardless of the number of underlying
height limits.  For purposes of this subparagraph, Section 12.21.1 A.10. of
this Code shall not apply.



 



   (i)   In any zone in which the height or number of stories is
limited, this height increase shall permit a maximum of eleven additional
feet or one additional story, whichever is lower, to provide the Restricted
Affordable Units.



 



   (a)   No additional height shall be permitted for that portion of
a  of a building in a Housing Development Project that is located within
fifteen feet of a lot classified in the R2 Zone.



 



   (b)   For each foot of additional height the building shall be set
back one horizontal foot.



 



   (ii)   No additional height shall be permitted for that portion of a
building in a Housing Development Project that is located within 50 feet of a
lot classified in an R1 or more restrictive residential zone.



 



   (iii)   No additional height shall be permitted for any portion of a
building in a Housing Development Project located on a lot sharing a common
lot line with or across an alley from a lot classified in an R1 or more
restrictive zone.  This prohibition shall not apply if the lot on which the
Housing Development Project is located is within 1,500 feet of a Transit Stop
but no additional height shall be permitted for that portion of a building in
the Housing Development Project that is located within 50 feet of a lot
classified in an R1 or more restrictive residential zone.



 



   (6)   Open Space.  Up to 20% decrease from an open space
requirement, provided that the landscaping for the Housing Development
Project is sufficient to qualify for the number of landscape points
equivalent to 10% more than otherwise required by Section 12.40 of this Code
and Landscape Ordinance Guidelines “O”.



 



   (7)   Density Calculation.  The area of any land required to be
dedicated for street or alley purposes may be included as lot area for
purposes of calculating the maximum density permitted by the underlying zone
in which the project is located.



 



   (8)   Averaging of Floor Area Ratio, Density, Parking or Open Space,
and permitting Vehicular Access.  A Housing Development Project that is
located on two or more contiguous parcels may average the floor area,
density, open space and parking over the project site, and permit vehicular
access from a less restrictive zone to a more restrictive zone, provided that:



 



   (i)   the Housing Development Project includes 11% or more of the
units as Restricted Affordable Units for Very Low Income households, or 20%
of the units for Low Income households, or 30% of the units for Moderate
Income households; and



 



   (ii)   the proposed use is permitted by the underlying zone(s) of
each parcel; and



 



   (iii)   no further lot line adjustment or any other action that may
cause the Housing Development Project site to be subdivided subsequent to
this grant shall be permitted.



 



   (g)   Procedures.



 



   (1)   Density Bonus and Parking.  Housing Development Projects
requesting a Density Bonus without any Incentives (which includes a Density
Bonus with only parking requirements in accordance with Paragraphs (c) and
(d) of this subdivision) shall be considered ministerial and follow the
Affordable Housing Incentives Guidelines and the Density Bonus Procedures. 
No application for these projects need be filed with the City Planning
Department.



 



   (2)   Requests for Incentives on the Menu.



 



   (i)   The applicant for Housing Development Projects that qualify
for a Density Bonus and that request up to three Incentives on the Menu of
Incentives in Paragraph (f) of this subdivision, and which require no other
discretionary actions, the following procedures shall apply:



 



   a.   Application.  The request shall be made on a form provided by
the Department of City Planning, as set forth in Section 11.5.7 B.2.(a) of
this Code, accompanied by applicable fees.



 



   b.   Authority.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,106, Eff. 5/20/12.)  The
Director shall be the initial decision maker for applications seeking on Menu
incentives.



 



   EXCEPTION:  When the application is filed as part of a project
requiring multiple approvals, the initial decision maker shall be as set
forth in Section 12.36 of this Code; and when the application is filed in
conjunction with a subdivision and no other approval, the Advisory Agency
shall be the initial decision-maker.



 



   c.   Action.  The Director shall approve a Density Bonus and
requested Incentive(s) unless the Director finds that:



 




   (i)   The Incentive is not required in order to provide for
affordable housing costs as defined in California Health and Safety Code
Section 50052.5, or Section 50053 for rents for the affordable units; or




 




   (ii)   The Incentive will have a Specific Adverse Impact upon public
health and safety or the physical environment or on any real property that is
listed in the California Register of Historical Resources and for which there
is no feasible method to satisfactorily mitigate or avoid the Specific
Adverse Impact without rendering the development unaffordable to Very Low,
Low and Moderate Income households.  Inconsistency with the zoning ordinance
or general plan land use designation shall not constitute a specific, adverse
impact upon the public health or safety.




 



   d.   Transmittal of Written Decision.  Within three business days
of making a decision, the Director shall transmit a copy by First Class Mail
to the applicant and to all owners of properties abutting, across the street
or alley from, or having a common corner with the subject property, and to
the local Certified Neighborhood Council.



 



   e.   Effective Date of Initial Decision.  The Director’s decision
shall become effective after an elapsed period of 15 calendar days from the
date of the mailing of the written decision unless an appeal is filed to the
City Planning Commission.



 



   f.   Appeals.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,106, Eff. 5/20/12.)  An
applicant or any owner or tenant of a property abutting, across the street or
alley from, or having a common corner with the subject property aggrieved by
the Director's decision may appeal the decision to the City Planning
Commission pursuant to applicable procedures set forth in Section 11.5.7 C.6.
of this Code that are not in conflict with the provisions of this paragraph
(g)(2)(i).  The appeal shall include a filing fee pursuant to Section 19.01
B. of this Code.  Before acting on any appeal, the City Planning Commission
shall set the matter for hearing, with written notice of the hearing sent by
First Class Mail at least ten days prior to the meeting date to:  the
applicant; the owner(s) of the property involved; and the interested parties
who have requested notice in writing.  The appeal shall be placed on the
agenda for the first available meeting date of the City Planning Commission
and acted upon within 60 days from the last day of the appeal period.  The
City Planning Commission may reverse or modify, in whole or in part, a
decision of the Director.  The City Planning Commission shall make the same
findings required to be made by the Director, supported by facts in the
record, and indicate why the Director erred making the determination.



 



   EXCEPTION:  When the application is filed as part of a project
requiring multiple approvals, the appeals procedures set forth in Section
12.36 of this Code shall govern.  When the application is filed in
conjunction with a Parcel Map and no other approval, the appeals procedures
set forth in Section 17.54 of this Code shall govern.  When the application
is filed in conjunction with a tentative map and no other approval, the
appeals procedures set forth in Section 17.06 A.3. of this Code shall govern,
provided that such applications shall only be appealable to the Appeal Board,
as defined in Section 17.02 of this Code, and shall not be subject to further
appeal to the City's legislative body.



 



   (ii)   For Housing Development Projects that qualify for a Density
Bonus and for which the applicant requests up to three Incentives listed in
Paragraph (f), above, and that require other discretionary actions, the
applicable procedures set forth in Section 12.36 of this Code shall apply.



 



   a.   The decision must include a separate section clearly labeled
“Density Bonus/ Affordable Housing Incentives Program Determination”.



 



   b.   The decision-maker shall approve a Density Bonus and requested
Incentive(s) unless the decision-maker, based upon substantial evidence,
makes either of the two findings set forth in Subparagraph (2)(i)(c), above.



 



   (3)   Requests for Waiver or Modification of any Development
Standard(s) Not on the Menu.



 



   (i)   For Housing Development Projects that qualify for a Density
Bonus and for which the applicant request a waiver or modification of any
development standard(s) that is not included on the Menu of Incentives in
Paragraph (f), above, and that are not subject to other discretionary
applications, the following shall apply:



 



   a.   The request shall be made on a form provided by the Department
of City Planning, accompanied by applicable fees, and shall include a pro
forma or other documentation to show that the waiver or modification of any
development standard(s) are needed in order to make the Restricted Affordable
Units economically feasible.



 



   b.   Notice and Hearing.  The application shall follow the
procedures for conditional uses set forth in Section 12.24 D. of this Code. 
A public hearing shall be held by the City Planning Commission or its
designee.  The decision of the City Planning Commission shall be final.



 



   c.   The City Planning Commission shall approve a Density Bonus and
requested waiver or modification of any development standard(s) unless the
Commission, based upon substantial evidence, makes either of the two findings
set forth in Subparagraph (g)(2)(i)c., above.



 



   (ii)   For Housing Development Projects requesting waiver or
modification of any development standard(s) not included on the Menu of
Incentives in Paragraph (f) above, and which include other discretionary
applications, the following shall apply:



 



   a.   The applicable procedures set forth in Section 12.36 of this
Code shall apply.



 



   b.   The decision must include a separate section clearly labeled
“Density Bonus/ Affordable Housing Incentives Program Determination”.



 



   c.   The decision-maker shall approve a Density Bonus and requested
waiver or modification of any development standard(s) unless the decision-
maker, based upon substantial evidence, makes either of the two findings set
forth in Subparagraph (g)(2)(i)c., above.



 



   (h)   Covenant.  Prior to issuance of a Building Permit, the
following shall apply:



 



   (1)   For any Housing Development Project qualifying for a Density
Bonus and that contains housing for Senior Citizens, a covenant acceptable to
the Housing and Community Investment Department shall be recorded with the
Los Angeles County Recorder, guaranteeing that the occupancy restriction to
Senior Citizens shall be observed for at least 30 years from the issuance of
the Certificate of Occupancy or a longer period of time if required by the
construction or mortgage financing assistance program, mortgage assistance
program, or rental subsidy program.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,718, Eff.
10/30/13.)



 



   (2)   For any Housing Development Project qualifying for a Density
Bonus and that contains housing for Low or Very Low Income households, a
covenant acceptable to the Housing and Community Investment Department shall
be recorded with the Los Angeles County Recorder, guaranteeing that the
affordability criteria will be observed for at least 30 years from the
issuance of the Certificate of Occupancy or a longer period of time if
required by the construction or mortgage financing assistance program,
mortgage assistance program, or rental subsidy program.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 182,718, Eff. 10/30/13.)



 



   (3)   For any Housing Development Project qualifying for a Density
Bonus and that contains housing for Moderate Income households for sale, a
covenant acceptable to the Housing and Community Investment Department and
consistent with the for sale requirements of California Government Code
Section 65915(c)(2) shall be recorded with the Los Angeles County Recorder
guaranteeing that the affordability criteria will be observed for at least
ten years from the issuance of the Certificate of Occupancy.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 182,718, Eff. 10/30/13.)



 



   (4)   If the duration of affordability covenants provided for in
this subdivision conflicts with the duration for any other government
requirement, the longest duration shall control.



 



   (5)   Any covenant described in this paragraph must provide for a
private right of enforcement by the City, any tenant, or owner of any
building to which a covenant and agreement applies.



 



   (i)   Fee Deferral.  At the option of the applicant, payment of
fees may be deferred pursuant to Sections 19.01 O. and 19.05 A.1. of this
Code. 



 



   (j)   Applicability.  To the extent permitted under applicable
State law, if a conflict arises between the terms of this subdivision and the
terms of the City’s Mello Act Settlement Agreement, Interim Administrative
Procedures for Complying with the Mello Act or any subsequent permanent Mello
Ordinance, Procedures or Regulations (collectively “Mello Terms”), the
Mello Terms preempt this subdivision.



 



   26.   Downtown Adaptive Reuse Projects. (Amended by Ord. No.
174,315, Eff. 12/20/01.)



 



   (a)   Purpose.  The purpose of this Subdivision is to revitalize
the Greater Downtown Los Angeles Area and implement the General Plan by
facilitating the conversion of older, economically distressed, or
historically significant buildings to apartments, live/work units or
visitor-serving facilities.  This will help to reduce vacant space as well
as preserve Downtown’s architectural and cultural past and encourage the
development of a live/work and residential community Downtown, thus creating
a more balanced ratio between housing and jobs in the region’s primary
employment center.  This revitalization will also facilitate the development
of a “24-hour city” and encourage mixed commercial and residential uses
in order to improve air quality and reduce vehicle trips and vehicle miles
traveled by locating residents, jobs, hotels and transit services near each
other.



 



   (b)   Application.  If the provisions of Subparagraph (2) of
Paragraph (h) and of Subparagraphs (1), (2) or (3) of Paragraph (j) of this
subdivision conflict with those of any specific plan, supplemental use
district, “Q” condition, “D” limitation, or citywide regulation, any
of which were adopted or imposed by City action prior to the effective date
of this ordinance, then this Subdivision shall prevail.



 



   (c)   Definition of Adaptive Reuse Project.  Notwithstanding any
other provisions of this chapter to the contrary, for the purposes of this
subdivision, an Adaptive Reuse Project is any change of use to dwelling
units, guest rooms, or joint living and work quarters in all or any portion
of any eligible building.



 



   (d)   Eligible Buildings.  The provisions of this subdivision shall
apply to Adaptive Reuse Projects in all or any portion of the following
buildings in the CR, C1, C1.5, C2, C4, C5, CM and R5 Zones in the Downtown
Project Area:



 



   (1)   Buildings constructed in accordance with building and zoning
codes in effect prior to July 1, 1974.  A Certificate of Occupancy, building
permit, or other suitable documentation may be submitted as evidence to
verify the date of construction.



 



   (2)   Buildings constructed in accordance with building and zoning
codes in effect on or after July 1, 1974, if:



 



   (i)   Five years have elapsed since the date of issuance of final
Certificates of Occupancy; and



 



   (ii)   A Zoning Administrator finds that the building is no longer
economically viable in its current use or uses, pursuant to Section 12.24
X.1.(c).  (Amended by Ord. No. 175,588, Eff. 12/1/03.)



 



   (3)   Buildings designated on the National Register of Historic
Places, the California Register of Historical Resources, or the City of Los
Angeles List of Historic-Cultural Monuments.  Contributing Buildings in
National Register Historic Districts or Contributing Structures in Historic
Preservation Overlay Zones (HPOZ) established pursuant to Section 12.20.3 of
this Code are also eligible buildings.



 



   (e)   M Zones.  The Zoning Administrator may, upon application,
permit Adaptive Reuse Projects in all or any portion of any eligible building
in the MR1, MR2, M1, M2 and M3 Zones in the Downtown Project Area, pursuant
to Section 12.24 X.1.(b).  (Amended by Ord. No. 175,588, Eff. 12/1/03.)



 



   (f)   Floor Area Averaging.  The Zoning Administrator may, upon
application, permit floor area averaging in unified Adaptive Reuse Projects,
pursuant to Section 12.24 X.1.(d).  (Amended by Ord. No. 175,588, Eff.
12/1/03.)



 



   (g)   Downtown Project Area.  The Downtown Project Area includes
the following areas:



 



   (1)   The Central City Community Plan Area as shown on the General
Plan of the City of Los Angeles; and



 



   (2)   All that real property in the City of Los Angeles, described
by the following boundary lines:  Bounded northerly by the centerline of
Freeway Number 10 (commonly called the Santa Monica Freeway); bounded
southerly by the centerline of Vernon Avenue; bounded easterly and
southeasterly by the following centerline courses: beginning at the
intersection of the Santa Monica Freeway and Grand Avenue, then southerly
along Grand Avenue to the most easterly line of Freeway Number 110 (commonly
called the Harbor Freeway), then southerly along that right of way to the
centerline of Martin Luther King, Jr. Boulevard, then easterly along Martin
Luther King, Jr. Boulevard to the centerline of Grand Avenue, then southerly
along Grand Avenue to the centerline of Vernon Avenue.  Bounded westerly and
northwesterly by the following centerline courses:  beginning at the
intersection of Vermont Avenue and Vernon Avenue, then northerly along
Vermont Avenue to Jefferson Boulevard, then easterly along Jefferson
Boulevard to University Avenue, then northerly along University Avenue to
28th Street, then westerly along 28th Street to Severance Street, then
northerly along Severance Street to Adams Boulevard, then westerly along
Adams Boulevard to Scarff Street, then northerly along Scarff Street to 23rd
Street, then southerly along 23rd Street to Bonsallo Avenue, then northerly
along Bonsallo Avenue to Washington Boulevard, then westerly along Washington
Boulevard to Oak Street, then northerly along Oak Street and its northerly
prolongation to the Santa Monica Freeway.



 



   (h)   Incentives.  Notwithstanding any other provisions of this
chapter to the contrary, Adaptive Reuse Projects shall be entitled to the
incentives set forth below.  Except for the provision concerning mezzanines
set forth in Subparagraph (1) below, these incentives shall not apply to any
new floor area that is added to an Adaptive Reuse Project.



 



   (1)   Mezzanines.  Loft spaces in joint living and work quarters,
dwelling units and guest rooms which do not exceed more than 33 percent of
the floor area of the space below shall not be considered new floor area. 
Mezzanines may be included in the calculation of floor area for the purpose
of determining compliance with the standards set forth in Paragraph (i) of
this subdivision.



 



   (2)   Density.  Dwelling units, joint living and work quarters and
guest rooms shall not be subject to the lot area requirements of the zone or
height district.



 



   (3)   Off-Street Automobile Parking.  The required number of
parking spaces shall be the same as the number of spaces that existed on the
site on June 3, 1999, and shall be maintained and not reduced.  Adaptive
Reuse Projects shall otherwise be exempt from the provisions of Section 12.21
A.4.(m) of this Code.



 



   (4)   Mini-Shopping Center and Commercial Corner Development
Regulations.  Adaptive Reuse Projects shall be exempt from the mini-shopping
center and commercial corner development regulations set forth in Section
12.22 A.23.



 



   (5)   Site Plan Review.  Adaptive Reuse Projects shall be exempt
from the requirements for Site Plan Review set forth in Section 16.05.



 



   (6)   Loading Space.  Where an existing loading space is provided,
the provisions of Section 12.21 C.6.(h) shall apply.  If no loading spaces
exist, then a loading space shall not be required in conjunction with the
development of an Adaptive Reuse Project.



 



   (i)   Standards.  Adaptive Reuse Projects permitted pursuant to
this subdivision shall be developed in compliance with the following
standards:



 



   (1)   Dwelling Units and Joint Living and Work Quarters.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 175,588, Eff. 12/1/03.)  The minimum floor area for new dwelling
units and joint living and work quarters shall be 450 square feet, provided
however, that the average floor area of all such units and quarters in a
single eligible building, including those that existed prior to June 3, 1999,
shall be at least 750 square feet.  That minimum average size shall be
maintained and not reduced.




   Floor area, as defined in Section 12.03 of the Code, shall also not
include hallways or other common areas.  The floor area of both the living
space and the work space shall be combined to determine the size of joint
living and work quarters.



 



   (2)   Guest Rooms.  Guest rooms shall include a toilet and bathing
facilities.



 



   (j)   Exceptions.  Notwithstanding the nonconforming provisions of
Section 12.23, the following exceptions shall apply to the buildings in which
Adaptive Reuse Projects are located.  These exceptions shall also apply to
any building in which new floor area or height was added or observed yards
changed on or after July 1, 1974, as evidenced by a valid Certificate of
Occupancy.



 



   (1)   Floor Area.  Existing floor area which exceeds that permitted
by the zone, height district, specific plan, supplemental use district, or
any other land use regulation shall be permitted.



 



   (2)   Height.  Existing height which exceeds that permitted by the
zone, height district, specific plan, supplemental use district, or any other
land use regulation shall be permitted.



 



   (3)   Yards.  Existing observed yards which do not meet the yards
required by the zone, height district, specific plan, supplemental use
district, or any other land use regulation shall be permitted.



 



   (k)   Uses.  Notwithstanding the nonconforming provisions of
Section 12.23, dwelling units, guest rooms, and joint living and work
quarters shall be permitted in Adaptive Reuse Projects, so long as the use is
permitted by the underlying zone.



 



   27.   Reasonable Accommodation - Fair Housing Protections for
Individuals with Disabilities.  (Added by Ord. No. 177,325, Eff. 3/18/06.)



 



   (a)   Purpose.  The purpose of this provision is to establish a
formal procedure for an Individual with a Disability seeking equal access to
housing to request a reasonable accommodation as provided by the federal Fair
Housing Amendments Act of 1988 and California's Fair Employment and Housing
Act, and to establish criteria to be used when considering these requests. 
Reasonable accommodation means providing an Individual with a Disability or
developers of housing for an Individual with a Disability, flexibility in the
application of land use and zoning regulations or policies (including the
modification or waiver of certain requirements), when it is necessary to
eliminate barriers to housing opportunities.



 



   (b)   Definitions.



 



   Acts - the Federal Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988 and California's
Fair Employment and Housing Act.



 



   Individual with a Disability - As defined under the Acts, a person who
has a physical or mental impairment that limits one or more major life
activities, anyone who is regarded as having that type of impairment or,
anyone who has a record of that type of impairment.



 



   (c)   Procedures.



 



   (1)   A written request for reasonable accommodation from a land use
or zoning regulation or policy shall be made on a form provided by the
Department of City Planning by any Individual with a Disability, his or her
representative or a developer or provider of housing for an Individual with a
Disability.



 



   (2)   A request for reasonable accommodation shall state the basis
of the request including but not limited to a modification or exception to
the regulations, standards and practices for the siting, development and use
of housing or housing related facilities that would eliminate regulatory
barriers and provide an Individual with a Disability equal opportunity to
housing of his or her choice.



 



   (3)   The Director may request additional information necessary for
making a determination on the request for reasonable accommodation that
complies with the fair housing law protections and the privacy rights of the
Individual with a Disability to use the specified housing.  If additional
information is requested, the 45-day time period for making a determination
on the request stops running until the additional information is provided.



 



   (4)   Prior to the issuance of any permits relative to an approved
reasonable accommodation, the Director may require the applicant to record a
covenant in the County Recorder's Office acknowledging and agreeing to comply
with the terms and conditions established in the determination.  The
covenant shall be required only if the Director finds that a covenant is
necessary to provide notice to future owners that a reasonable accommodation
has been approved.



 



   (d)   Time to Act.



 



   (1)   The Director shall issue a written determination to either
grant, grant with modifications, or deny a request for reasonable
accommodation within 45 days of the date the application is deemed complete,
or within an extended period as mutually agreed upon in writing by the
applicant and the Director.



 



   (2)   While a request for reasonable accommodation is pending, all
laws and regulations otherwise applicable to the property that is the subject
of the request shall remain in full force and effect.



 



   (e)   Findings.  The written decision to grant, grant with
modifications or deny a request for reasonable accommodation shall include
the following findings:



 



   (1)   that the housing, which is the subject of the request for
reasonable accommodation, will be used by an Individual with a Disability
protected under the Acts;



 



   (2)   that the requested accommodation is necessary to make housing
available to an Individual with a Disability protected under the Acts;



 



   (3)   that the requested accommodation would not impose an undue
financial or administrative burden on the City; and



 



   (4)   that the requested accommodation would not require a
fundamental alteration in the nature of the City's land use and zoning
program.



 



   (f)   Applicability.  If the Director grants the request, the
request shall be granted to an individual and shall not run with the land
unless the Director determines that (1) the modification is physically
integrated into the residential structure and cannot easily be removed or
altered to comply with the Code or (2) the accommodation is to be used by
another Individual with a Disability.



 



   (g)   Notice.  Notice of the determination shall be provided to the
applicant and to abutting owners of the property, which is the subject of the
request for reasonable accommodation.  All written decisions shall give
notice of the right to appeal and to request reasonable accommodation in the
appeals process as set forth in Subsection (h), below.



 



   (h)   Appeal of Determination.



 



   (1)   A determination by the Director shall be final unless appealed
to the City Council within 15 calendar days of the date of mailing of the
determination.



 



   (2)   Only the aggrieved applicant and abutting owners who received
notice of the reasonable accommodation determination have a right to appeal
the decision.



 



   (3)   An appeal shall be made in writing, pursuant to procedures
established in Section 12.24 I.2. through 5. of this Code.



 



   (i)   Coastal Zone Properties.  For housing located in the Coastal
Zone, a request for reasonable accommodation under this section shall be
approved by the City if it is consistent with the requisite findings above,
with Chapter 3 of the California Coastal Act of 1976, and with the
Interpretative Guidelines for Coastal Planning and Permits as established by
the California Coastal Commission dated February 11, 1977, and any subsequent
amendments, and, within the Venice Community Plan, with the certified Local
Coastal Program Land Use Plan.



 



   Where a request for reasonable accommodation is not consistent with the
regulations identified in the paragraph above, the City may waive compliance
with an otherwise applicable provision of these regulations and approve the
request for reasonable accommodation if the City finds:



 



   (1)   that the requested reasonable accommodation is consistent, to
the maximum extent feasible, with the regulations identified in this
subsection; and,



 



   (2)   that there are no feasible alternative means for providing an
accommodation at the property that would provide greater consistency with the
regulations identified in this subsection.



 



   28.   Automotive Use.  (Added by Ord. No. 178,382, Eff. 3/24/07.) 
In the C2 or less restrictive zones, a new automotive use, change of use or
addition of floor area to an existing automotive use may be established
without first obtaining an approval pursuant to Section 12.24 W.4. of this
Code if the development standards set forth in Paragraph (a) and the
operating conditions set forth in Paragraph (b) of this subdivision are
met.  Notwithstanding the above, new automobile dealership franchises, and
their associated activities, are exempt from the requirements of this
subdivision.



 



   (a)   Development Standards.



 



   (1)   Windows.  The exterior walls and doors of any building,
excluding bay doors and/or security grills, housing an automotive use, which
are parallel to a street, shall consist of at least 50 percent transparent
windows, unless otherwise prohibited by law.



 



   (2)   Bay Doors.  Bay doors or vehicle entrances, exits and
openings shall not face any school, lot with a Certificate of Occupancy for a
one-family dwelling, multiple-family dwelling, or mixed use project
containing a residential use, or A or R zone that is within 100-feet from the
face of the building containing the bay door, vehicle entrance, exit or
opening.



 



   (3)   Wash Rack.  Every wash rack shall be constructed or arranged
so that entrances, exits and openings shall not face any school, lot with a
Certificate of Occupancy for a one-family dwelling, multiple-family dwelling,
or mixed use project containing a residential use, or A or R zone within
100-feet of the side of the building containing the bay door, vehicle
entrance, exit or opening.



 



   (4)   Fences.  Fences or walls erected along the front lot line
shall not exceed 36-inches in height.



 



   (5)   Automotive hoists.  Automotive hoists of any type or size,
shall be located and operated only inside a building enclosed on at least
three sides.



 



   (6)   Signs.



 



   (i)   In addition to the requirements set forth in Sections 91.6201
et seq. of this Code, no person shall erect a pole sign or projecting sign,
as defined in Section 91.6203 of this Code, on the lot or lots without first
obtaining a conditional use permit pursuant to Section 12.24 W.4. of this
Code.



 



   (ii)   Monument signs and information signs may only be located
within the landscape-planted areas of the lot or lots.



 



   (7)   Utilities.  All new utility lines which directly service the
lot or lots shall be installed underground.  If underground service is not
available at the time the application is submitted and fees paid for plan
check, then provisions should be made for future underground service to the
satisfaction of the Bureau of Engineering, if determined necessary by the
Department of Water and Power.



 



   (8)   Walls and Trash Storage.  A solid masonry wall at least six
feet in height shall be erected along the lot lines of the lot or lots where
the lot or lots abut or are across an alley from any school, lot with a
Certificate of Occupancy for a one-family dwelling, multiple-family dwelling,
or mixed use project containing a residential use, or A or R zone, except for
that portion of the lot line where an access driveway is required by the City
as determined by the Department of Building and Safety.  Trash storage bins
shall be located within a gated enclosure constructed of solid masonry and
finished to match the exterior wall materials of the main building.



 



   (9)   Landscaping.  All landscaping shall comply with Sections
12.41, 12.42 and 12.43 of this Code and the following requirements:



 



   (i)   Landscaping - Setback.  A landscaped, planted area having a
minimum width of five feet shall be required along all street frontages of
the lot or lots, except for that portion of the lot line where an access
driveway is required by the City as determined by the Department of Building
and Safety, and on the perimeters of all parking areas of the lot or lots
that abut a residential zone or use.



 



   (ii)   Irrigation System.  An automatic irrigation system shall be
provided for all landscaped, planted areas.  The system shall be installed
and operational prior to the issuance of any certificate of occupancy.



 



   (10)   Lighting.  All exterior and flood lighting shall be directed
onto the lot or lots and shall be designed to eliminate any glare to
adjoining properties.



 



   (b)   Operating Conditions.



 



   (1)   Spray painting shall not be conducted.



 



   (2)   Junkyard or automobile dismantling activities shall not be
conducted.



 



   (3)   Public address system shall not be permitted.



 



   (4)   Site cleaning, sweeping, trash collection, and deliveries to
the site shall be limited to the following hours:  Monday through Friday,
7:00 AM to 7:00 PM and Saturday and Sunday 8:00 AM to 5:00 PM. 
Notwithstanding the above, trash collection shall not be allowed on Sundays
or legal holidays.



 



   (5)   Hours of operation shall be limited to:  Monday through
Friday, 7:00 AM to 7:00 PM; Saturday, 9:00 AM to 8:00 PM; and Sunday, 11:00
AM to 8:00 PM.



 



   (6)   All loading, including those of vehicles, shall occur on-site.



 



   (7)   Vehicles being repaired shall be stored on-site.  Any
off-site parking shall comply with Section 12.21 A.6. of this Code.



 



   (8)   Accessory sales activities shall not occur outside a fully
enclosed building.



 



   (9)   Trailers and/or temporary modular buildings shall not be
permitted as a work area.



 



   (10)   Arcades or game machines shall not be permitted.



 



   (11)   Temporary canopy tents shall not be permitted when the tents
are visible from the street.



 



   (12)   The site where the automotive use is located shall be kept
clear of weeds, rubbish, and all types of litter and combustible materials at
all times.  One trash receptacles shall be located for every 200 square feet
of open space and shall be uniformly distributed throughout the open areas of
the site.



 



   (13)   Any automotive laundry or wash rack, in which power driven or
steam cleaning machinery is used, shall maintain noise levels below the
levels provided in Table II of Section 111.03 of this Code.  The comparison
between the noise emanating from the automotive laundry or wash rack and from
Table II shall be made in the manner set forth in Section 111.02(a) of this
Code.



 



   (14)   Any automotive sound shop or automotive alarm shop shall be
wholly conducted within a fully enclosed building.  No portion of the
building or its associated parking area shall be within 50 feet of any
school, lot with a Certificate of Occupancy for a one-family dwelling,
multiple-family dwelling, or mixed use project containing a residential use,
A or R zoned lot.



 



   (15)   All operational conditions imposed by the Department of
Building and Safety in its annual inspections of automotive repair and used
vehicle sales area pursuant to Section 12.26 I. of this Code shall be
followed.



 



   (16)   On-site pennants, banners, ribbons, streamers, spinners,
balloons and supergraphic signs are prohibited.



 



   (17)   All windows and glass doors shall be maintained free of any
signs.



 



   (18)   Covenant. Prior to the issuance of a building permit or land
use permit, the owner of the lot or lots shall execute and record a covenant
and agreement in a form satisfactory to the Director of Planning,
acknowledging that the owner shall implement each of the conditions set forth
in this paragraph, and shall not permit the establishment of any uses
enumerated in Section 12.24 W.4. of this Code without first obtaining a
conditional use approval.  The covenant and agreement shall run with the
land and be binding upon the owners, and any assignees, lessees, heirs, and
successors of the owners.  The City's right to enforce the covenant and
agreement is in addition to any other remedy provided by law.



 



   (c)   Existing Building Changed to Automotive Use and/or an Existing
Automotive Use Being Expanded or Remodeled.  An existing building or
buildings may be converted or an existing automotive use may be expanded
without first obtaining a conditional use approval if all of the following
requirements are met:



 



   (1)   All alterations result in no more than a 20 percent increase
in the existing floor area of all of the buildings on a lot or lots
cumulatively over the previous five years.



 



   (2)   The proposed automotive use complies with all the conditions
of operation of Paragraph (b) above.



 



   (3)   Any reuse of an existing structure that is required to go
through a CUP process shall have all standards established by the Zoning
Administrator.



 



   (d)   Specific Plan Compliance.  Notwithstanding any other
provision of this Code to the contrary, if the Director determines that the
provisions of this subdivision conflict with those of an adopted Specific
Plan, pedestrian oriented, commercial and artcraft, community design overlay,
historic preservation overlay or transit-oriented district, area or zone,
then the provisions of that Specific Plan, district, area or zone shall
prevail.



 



   29.   Floor Area Bonus for the Greater Downtown Housing Incentive
Area.  (Added by Ord. No. 179,076, Eff. 9/23/07.)



 



   (a)   Definitions.



 



   Area Median Income (AMI) - the median income in the Los Angeles County
as determined annually by the United States Department of Housing and Urban
Development (HUD), or any successor agency, adjusted for household size.



 



   Floor Area Bonus - an increase in floor area greater than the otherwise
maximum allowable floor area, as set forth in Section 12.21.1 of the Code.



 



   Income, Very Low, Low or Moderate - annual income of a household that
does not exceed amounts designated for each income category as determined by
HUD, or any successor agency.



 



   Income, Workforce - the annual income of a household that does not
exceed 150% of the Area Median Income as determined by HUD, or any successor
agency.



 



   Restricted Affordable Unit - a residential unit for which rental or
mortgage amounts are restricted so as to be affordable to and occupied by
Very Low, Low, Moderate or Workforce Income households, as determined by the
Housing and Community Investment Department.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,718,
Eff. 10/30/13.)



 



   (b)   Eligibility for Floor Area Bonus.  A residential (including
Apartment Hotel and mixed-use) building in the Greater Downtown Housing
Incentive Area containing the requisite number of Restricted Affordable Units
as determined by the Department of City Planning and as set forth in
Subparagraphs (1), (2) and (3) below shall be granted the following
incentives in accordance with Paragraph (c) below:



 



   (1)   5% of the total number of dwelling units shall be provided for
Very Low Income households; and



 



   (2)   One of the following shall be provided:



 



   (i)   10% of the total number of dwelling units for Low Income
households; or



 



   (ii)   15% of the total number of dwelling units for Moderate Income
households; or



 



   (iii)   20% of the total number of dwelling units for Workforce
Income households.



 



   (3)   Any dwelling unit or guest room occupied by a household
earning less than 50% of the Area Median Income that is demolished or
otherwise eliminated shall be replaced on a one-for-one basis within the
Community Plan Area in which it is located.



 



   (4)   Fractional Units.  In calculating Restricted Affordable
Units, any number resulting in a fraction shall be rounded up to the next
whole number.



 



   (c)   Incentives.



 



   (1)   A 35% increase in total floor area.  In computing the total
floor area of a residential building or residential portion of a building,
any public area accessible to all residents, including public common areas
that serve both residential and commercial uses, and any unenclosed
architectural features and areas of a building shall not be considered part
of the total floor area of a residential or residential portion of a
building.  The floor area shall be measured to the center line of partitions
separating public and non-public common areas.



 



   (2)   The open space required by Section 12.21 G. of this chapter
shall be reduced by one-half, provided that a fee equivalent to the amount of
the relevant park fee, pursuant to Section 19.17, shall be paid for all
dwelling units, with the following exception:  units qualifying under
Section 12.33 C.3.(d) shall be allowed to reduce the open space requirement
by one-half without payment of such fee.  The in-lieu fee shall be placed in
a trust fund with the Department of Recreation and Parks for the purpose of
acquisition, development and maintenance of open space and/or streetscape
amenities within the Greater Downtown Housing Incentive Area, and within the
Community Plan Area in which the project is located.  The in-lieu fee is
independent of any required park and recreation impact fee.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 184,505, Eff. 1/11/17.)



 



   (3)   No parking space shall be required for dwelling units or guest
rooms dedicated to or set-aside for households that earn less than 50% of the
Area Median Income as determined by the Housing and Community Investment
Department.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,718, Eff. 10/30/13.)



 



   (4)   No more than one parking space (including spaces allocated for
guest parking) shall be required for each dwelling unit.



 



   (d)   Covenant.  Prior to issuance of a building permit to create a
residential or mixed-use building or an Apartment Hotel, the following shall
apply:



 



   (1)   For any project qualifying for a Floor Area Bonus that
contains rental housing for Low, Very Low, Moderate or Workforce Income
households, a covenant acceptable to the Housing and Community Investment
Department shall be recorded with the Los Angeles County Recorder,
guaranteeing that the affordability criteria will be observed for at least 30
years from the issuance of the Certificate of Occupancy or a longer period of
time if required by the construction or mortgage financing assistance
program, mortgage assistance program, or rental subsidy program.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 182,718, Eff. 10/30/13.)



 



   (2)   For any project qualifying for a Floor Area Bonus that
contains for-sale housing for Moderate or Workforce Income households, a
covenant acceptable to the Housing and Community Investment Department and
consistent with the for-sale requirements of California Government Code
Section 65915(c)(2) shall be recorded with the Los Angeles County Recorder. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 182,718, Eff. 10/30/13.)



 



   (3)   If the duration of affordability covenants provided for in
this subdivision conflicts with the duration for any other government
requirement, the longest duration shall control.



 



   30.   Downtown Design Guide.  (Added by Ord. No. 181,557, Eff.
3/15/11.)



 



   (a)   Purpose.  The purpose of this Subdivision is to implement the
standards and guidelines in the Downtown Design Guide (the "Design Guide"),
adopted by the City Planning Commission and incorporated as part of the
Central City Community Plan, an element of the General Plan of the City of
Los Angeles.  Given the importance of Downtown Los Angeles as the civic,
cultural, institutional, governmental, social and economic center of the
region, the urban form is critical to its continued vitality and economic
viability and the preservation and enhancement of its historic fabric.  The
Downtown Design Guide regulates projects that have the potential to affect
the urban form, pedestrian orientation and street-level activity, and its
implementation will ensure a quality built environment.



 



   (b)   Definition of Project.  (Amended by Ord. No. 186,325, Eff.
11/11/19.)  For the purposes of this Subdivision, a Project is the
construction, erection, addition to or alteration, of any building or
structure, or a use of land or change of use on a lot located in whole or in
part within the Downtown Design Guide Project Area, as defined in Section
12.03 and shown on the adopted ordinance map, which requires the issuance of
a grading permit, foundation permit, building permit, sign permit or use of
land permit.



 



   A Project does not include any of the following:  (1) demolition; (2)
adaptive reuse of an existing building which conforms to Section 12.22 A.26.
of this Code; (3) remodeling of designated historic resources; (4)
alterations of or additions to any existing building or structure in which
the aggregate value of the work, in any one 24-month period, is less than 50%
of the Building or Structure's replacement value before the alterations or
additions, as determined by the Department of Building and Safety; and (5)
interior remodeling of any other existing Building, unless the interior
alterations are to the ground floor and will result in the alteration of
windows, display windows, entrances, storefronts or otherwise minimize ground
floor transparency.



 



   (c)   Downtown Design Guide.  Every project within the Project Area
must comply with the Downtown Design Guide standards and guidelines.  The
Director shall have the authority to review projects for compliance with the
Downtown Design Guide prior to the issuance of a building permit in the
Project Area.



 



   (1)   Exception.  Projects conforming to the Downtown Design Guide
shall be exempt from the mini-shopping center and commercial corner
development regulations set forth in Section 12.22 A.23. of this Code.



 



   (d)   Administrative Clearance - Authority of the Director for Sign
Off.



 



   (1)   Application, Form and Contents.  To apply for an
Administrative Clearance, an applicant shall file an application with the
Department of City Planning, on a form provided by the Department, and
include all information required by the instructions on the application and
any additional submission requirements.  The Director shall determine if the
application qualifies for Administrative Clearance and whether the Project
complies with all applicable District regulations.



 



   (2)   Application Fees.  The application fee for an Administrative
Clearance shall be as set forth in Section 19.01 E. or 19.01 I. of this
Code.  The fee in Section 19.01 E. shall be charged for administrative
clearance of new construction permits only.  The fee in Section 19.01 I.
shall be charged for all other building permit sign-offs.



 



   (3)   Procedures. Applicants for Projects that comply with the
provisions of the Downtown Design Guide shall submit plans to the Director
for conformance review and administrative sign off.  The Director or his/her
designee shall review the Project for compliance with the standards and
guidelines in the Downtown Design Guide.  Projects that fail to demonstrate
compliance with the Downtown Design Guide shall follow relief procedures set
forth below.



 



   (e)   Adjustment - Authority of the Director with Appeals to the
Area Planning Commission.  If an application fails to conform to the
provisions of the Downtown Design Guide, the Director or the Director's
designee shall have initial decision-making authority to grant an Adjustment
in accordance with Section 11.5.7 E.1.(a) and with the procedures set forth
in Section 11.5.7 C.4. - 6. of this Code.



 



   (1)   Limitations.  An Adjustment shall be limited to deviations
from regulations which do not substantially alter the execution or intent of
those regulations as applicable to a proposed Project.



 



   (2)   Findings.  The determination by the Director shall include
written findings in support of the determination.  In order to approve a
proposed project pursuant to this subsection, the Director must find that:



 



   (a)   There are special circumstances applicable to the project or
project site which make the strict application of the Design Guide
regulations impractical;



 



   (b)   In granting the adjustment, the Director has imposed project
requirements and/or decided that the proposed project will substantially
comply with the purpose and intent of all Design Guide regulations;



 



   (c)   In granting the adjustment, the Director has considered and
found no detrimental effects of the adjustment on surrounding properties and
public rights-of-way;



 



   (d)   The project incorporates mitigation measures, monitoring of
measures when necessary, or alternatives identified in the environmental
review which would mitigate the negative environmental effects of the
project, to the extent physically feasible; and



 



   (e)   The project is compatible with the neighborhood character of
the surrounding district.



 



   31.   Transit Oriented Communities Affordable Housing Incentive
Program.  (Added by Ord. No. 184,745, Eff. 12/13/16.)



 



   (a)   Application of TOC Affordable Housing Incentive Program. 
This Transit Oriented Communities Affordable Housing Incentive Program, and
the provisions contained in the TOC Affordable Housing Incentive Program
Guidelines, shall apply to all Housing Developments that are located within a
one-half mile radius of a Major Transit Stop, as defined in subdivision (b)
of Section 21155 of the California Public Resources Code.  Each one-half
mile radius around a Major Transit Stop shall constitute a unique Transit
Oriented Communities Affordable Housing Incentive Area.



 



   (b)   Preparation and Content of TOC Incentive Guidelines.  Within
90 days of enactment of this Ordinance, the Director of Planning shall
prepare TOC Affordable Housing Incentive Program Guidelines ("TOC
Guidelines") that provide the eligibility standards, incentives, and other
necessary components of this TOC Incentive Program described herein. 
Nothing in the TOC Guidelines shall restrict any right authorized in the
underlying zone or height district.  The TOC Guidelines shall be drafted
consistent with the purposes of this Subdivision and shall include the
following:



 



   (1)   Eligibility for TOC Incentives.  A Housing Development
located within a TOC Affordable Housing Incentive Area shall be eligible for
TOC Incentives if it provides minimum required percentages of On-Site
Restricted Affordable Units, meets any applicable replacement requirements of
California Government Code Section 65915(c)(3), and is not seeking and
receiving a density or development bonus under the provisions of California
Government Code Section 65915 or any other State or local program that
provides development bonuses.  Minimum required percentages of On-Site
Restricted Affordable Units shall be determined by the Department of City
Planning and set forth in the TOC Guidelines at rates that meet or exceed 11%
of the total number of dwelling units affordable to Very Low income
households; or 20% of the total number of dwelling units affordable to Lower
Income households.  The Department of City Planning shall also establish an
option for a Developer to qualify for the TOC Incentives by providing a
minimum percentage of units for Extremely Low Income Households, which shall
be set at no less than 7%.  In calculating the required Restricted
Affordable Units, the percentage shall be based on the total final project
unit count, and any number resulting in a fraction shall be rounded up to the
next whole number.  In creating the TOC Guidelines, the Department of City
Planning shall identify incentives for projects that adhere to the labor
standards required in Section 5 of this Ordinance provided, that no such
incentives will be created that have the effect of undermining the affordable
housing incentives contained herein or in Government Code Section 65915.



 



   (2)   TOC Incentives.  An Eligible Housing Development shall be
granted TOC Incentives, as determined by the Department of City Planning
consistent with the following:



 



   (i)   Residential Density increase.  An Eligible Housing
Development shall be granted increased residential density at rates that
shall meet or exceed a 35% increase.  In establishing the density
allowances, the Department of City Planning may allow adjustments to minimum
square feet per dwelling unit, floor area ratio, or both, and may allow
different levels of density increase depending on the Project's base zone and
density.



 



   (ii)   Parking.  An Eligible Housing Development shall be granted
parking reductions consistent with California Government Code Section
65915(p).



 



   (iii)   Incentives and Concessions.  An Eligible Housing
Development may be granted up to either two or three incentives or
concessions based upon the requirements set forth in California Government
Code Section 65915(d)(2).



 



   (c)   Approval of TOC Guidelines and Incentives.  The City Planning
Commission shall review the TOC Guidelines and shall by vote make a
recommendation to adopt or reject the TOC Guidelines.



 



   (d)   Process for Changing TOC Incentives and Eligibility.  The TOC
Incentives and the required percentages for On-Site Restricted Affordable
Units may be adjusted for an individual TOC Affordable Housing Incentive Area
through a Community Plan update, Transit Neighborhood Plan, or Specific Plan,
provided that the required percentages for On-Site Restricted Affordable
Units may not be reduced below the percentages set forth in subdivision (b).



 



   (e)   Procedures.  Application for the TOC Incentives shall be made
on a form provided by the Department of City Planning, and shall follow the
procedures outlined in Los Angeles Municipal Code Section 12.22 A.25.(g).



 



   (f)   Covenant.  Prior to issuance of a building permit to create a
Housing Development, the following shall apply:



 



   (1)   For any Housing Development qualifying for a TOC Incentive
that contains rental housing for Extremely Low, Very Low, or Lower Income
households, a covenant acceptable to the Los Angeles Housing and Community
Investment Department shall be recorded with the Los Angeles County Recorder,
guaranteeing that the affordability criteria will be observed for 55 years or
longer.



 



   (2)   For any Housing Development qualifying for a TOC Incentive
that contains for-sale housing, a covenant acceptable to the Housing and
Community Investment Department and consistent with the for-sale requirements
of California Government Code Section 65915(c)(2) shall be recorded with the
Los Angeles County Recorder.



 



   (3)   If the duration of affordability covenants provided for in
this subdivision conflicts with the duration for any other government
requirement, the longest duration shall control.



 



   (g)   Definitions.



 



   "Eligible Housing Development" shall mean a Housing Development that
includes On-Site Restricted Affordable Units at a rate that meets or exceeds
the minimum requirements to satisfy the TOC Incentives, as determined by the
Department of City Planning and as set forth in paragraph (b)(1) above.



 



   "Extremely Low-Income Households" is defined in Section 50106 of the
Health and Safety Code.



 



   "Housing Development" shall mean the construction of five or more new
residential dwellings units, the addition of five or more residential
dwelling units to an existing building or buildings, the remodeling of a
building or buildings containing five or more residential dwelling units, or
a mixed use development containing residential dwelling units.



 



   "Lower Income Households" is defined in Section 50079.5 of the Health
and Safety Code.



 



   "On-Site Restricted Unit" shall mean a residential unit for which
rental or mortgage amounts are restricted so as to be affordable to and
occupied by Extremely Low, Very Low, or Lower income households, as
determined by the Housing and Community Investment Department.



 



   "Very Low-Income Households" is defined in Section 50105 of the Health
and Safety Code.



 



   32.   Home-Sharing.  (Added by Ord. No. 185,931, Eff. 7/1/19.)  In
all zones wherein residential uses are permitted by right, the following
shall apply:



 



   (a)   Purpose.  The purpose of this subdivision is to allow for the
efficient use and sharing of a residential structure which is a Host's
Primary Residence, without detracting from the surrounding residential
character or the City's available housing stock.



 



   (b)   Definitions.  The following definitions shall apply to this
subdivision:



 



   (1)   Administrative Guidelines.  The Department of City Planning
or Office of Finance may promulgate regulations, which may include, but are
not limited to, application requirements, interpretations, conditions,
reporting requirements, enforcement procedures, and disclosure requirements,
to implement the provisions, and consistent with the intent, of this
subdivision.



 



   (2)   Booking Service.  Any reservation and/or payment service
provided by a Person that facilitates a Short-Term Rental transaction between
a Person and a prospective guest or Transient user, and for which the Person
collects or receives, directly or indirectly through an agent or
intermediary, a fee in connection with the reservation and/or payment of
services provided for the transaction.



 



   (3)   Citation.  Includes any enforcement citation, order, ticket
or similar notice of violation, relating to the condition of or activities at
a Person's Primary Residence or property, issued by the Los Angeles
Department of Building and Safety, Los Angeles Housing and Community
Investment Department, Los Angeles Police Department or Los Angeles Fire
Department, including an Administrative Citation issued pursuant to Article
1.2 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.



 



   (4)   Extended Home-Sharing.  Home-Sharing that is permitted for an
unlimited number of days in a calendar year.



 



   (5)   Hosting Platform.  A Person that participates in Short-Term
Rental business by collecting or receiving a fee, directly or indirectly
through an agent or intermediary, for conducting a Booking Service
transaction using any medium of facilitation.



 



   (6)   Host.  An individual who is registered for Home-Sharing as
the term is defined in Section 12.03 of this Code.



 



   (7)   Person.  Shall have the same meaning as that term is defined
in Section 21.7.2 of this Code.



 



   (8)   Platform Agreement.  A signed agreement between a
Home-Sharing Hosting Platform (Platform) and the City, which, among other
things, provides that the Platform will collect and submit the Transient
Occupancy Tax to the City on behalf of Hosts and Persons listed for Short
Term Rentals.



 



   (9)   Primary Residence.  The sole residence from which the Host
conducts Home-Sharing and in which the Host resides for more than 6 months of
the calendar year.



 



   (10)   Rental Unit.  A Dwelling Unit, Guest Room, Accessory Living
Quarters, other residential structure, or portion thereof.



 



   (11)   Short-Term Rental.  A Rental Unit, rented in whole or in
part, to any Person(s) for transient use of 30 consecutive days or less. 
Rental Units within City-approved Hotels, motels, Transient Occupancy
Residential Structures and Bed and Breakfasts shall not be considered a
Short-Term Rental.



 



   (12)   Transient.  Shall have the same meaning as that term is
defined in Section 21.7.2 of this Code.



 



   (c)   Home-Sharing Registration.



 



   (1)   Application.  To register for Home-Sharing, an applicant
shall file an application with the Department of City Planning in a manner
provided by the Department, and shall include: information needed to verify
the Host's identification and Primary Residence; identification of a local
responsible contact person; a list of all Hosting Platforms to be used;
whether Home-Sharing is for an entire Rental Unit or a portion thereof; and
any other information required by the instructions on the application and/or
by the guidelines promulgated by the Director of Planning.  Payment of any
filing fee required under Section 19.01 E. shall be included with the
application.  If the required information for registration, including any
filing fee, is not received within 45 days of submittal of the application,
the Home-Sharing registration will be considered withdrawn.



 



   (2)   Eligibility Requirements.  The following requirements must be
met at the time of submitting an application for Home-Sharing registration:



 



   (i)   The applicant has obtained a Transient Occupancy Registration
Certificate from the Office of Finance pursuant to Section 21.7.6 of this
Code, unless the applicant exclusively lists his or her Primary Residence on
Hosting Platforms that have a Platform Agreement with the City of Los Angeles.



 



   (ii)   The proposed Home-Sharing is consistent with the provisions
of this subdivision and is limited to the Host's Primary Residence.



 



   a.   A renter or lessee shall not engage in Home-Sharing without
prior written approval of the landlord.  A renter or lessee shall provide
copies of the landlord's written approval to the City at the time of filing
the application for registration.  A landlord may proactively prohibit
Home-Sharing by tenants at any or all of the owner's properties by submitting
a notification in writing to the Department of City Planning.



 



   b.   A Primary Residence that is subject to affordable housing
covenants, and/or Chapter 15 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code ("Rent
Stabilization Ordinance"), and/or are income-restricted under City, state or
federal law, is not eligible for Home-Sharing.



 



   c.   No Primary Residence which is the subject of any pending
Citation may be registered for Home-Sharing.



 



   d.   No Person may apply for or obtain more than one Home-Sharing
registration or otherwise operate more than one Home-Sharing Rental Unit at a
time in the City of Los Angeles.



 



   (3)   Expiration and Renewal.  A Home-Sharing registration is valid
for one year from the date of issuance.  It may not be transferred or
assigned and is valid only at the Host's Primary Residence.  A Home-Sharing
registration may be renewed annually if the Host: (1) pays the renewal fee;
(2) has complied with the provisions of this subdivision for the past year;
(3) provides information concerning any changes to the previous application
for, or renewal of, the Home-Sharing registration; and (4) submits
Home-Sharing records described in Subparagraph (e)(2) for the last year to
demonstrate compliance with this subdivision, unless the Host lists
exclusively on a Hosting Platform with a Platform Agreement that includes a
provision for pass-through registration for applicants for a Home-Sharing
registration.  The records described in Subparagraph (e)(2) shall be made
public to the extent required by law.



 



   (4)   Suspensions and Revocations.  Notwithstanding any other
provision of this Code to the contrary, the Director may require the
suspension, modification, discontinuance or revocation of any Home-Sharing
registration if it is found that the Host has violated this subdivision or
any other city, state, or federal regulation, ordinance or statute.



 



   (i)   Suspension.  If a Host receives two Citations, the Host's
Home-Sharing registration shall be suspended for 30 days or as long as at
least one Citation is open, whichever is longer.  The suspension shall
become effective 15 days after the mailing of a Notice of Intent to Suspend
the Host.  If a Host initiates an appeal of either Citation, the suspension
will take effect only if the appeal is not resolved entirely in the Host's
favor.



 



   a.   A Host may challenge a Citation by submitting an appeal to the
City department that issued the Citation and providing notice to the
Department of Planning as described in the Administrative Guidelines.



 



   b.   Where no process is described in the Citation, a Host may
challenge a Citation by submitting an appeal to the Director of Planning in
accordance with the process in Section 12.24 Z. of this Code, with no further
appeal to a Commission or City Council.



 



   (ii)   Revocation.  If three Citations have been issued to the Host
and have been sustained (after exhaustion of any related remedies, including
appeals) within a registration year, the Host's Home-Sharing registration
shall be revoked.  The revocation of a Host's Home-Sharing registration
shall become effective 15 days after the mailing of a Notice of Intent to
Revoke to the Host.



 



   a.   A Host may challenge a Notice of Intent to Revoke by submitting
an appeal to the Director of Planning in accordance with the process in
Section 12.24 Z. of this Code, with no further appeal to a Commission or City
Council.



 



   b.   Pursuant to the revocation, the Host shall be prohibited from
participating in Home-Sharing for one year from the effective date of the
Notice of Intent to Revoke.



 



   (iii)   Modification.  The Director may modify, discontinue or
revoke any Home-Sharing registration based upon an order to show cause,
pursuant to Section 12.27.1 B. of this Code, why any proposed modifications,
discontinuances or revocations of any Home-Sharing registration should not be
issued.  The Director shall provide notice to the Host and/or recorded owner
and lessee(s) of the Host's Primary Residence to appear at a public hearing
at a time and place fixed by the Director to respond to the Director's order
to show cause.



 



   (d)   Prohibitions.



 



   (1)   No Person shall offer, advertise, book, facilitate or engage
in Home Sharing or Short-Term Rental activity in a manner that does not
comply with this subdivision.



 



   (2)   A Host may not participate in Home-Sharing unless all
advertisements clearly list the City-issued Home Sharing registration number
or pending registration status number.



 



   (3)   No Host shall engage in Home-Sharing for more than 120 days in
any calendar year unless the City has issued the Host an Extended
Home-Sharing registration pursuant to Paragraph (h).



 



   (4)   Accessory Dwelling Units for which a complete building permit
application was submitted on or after January 1, 2017, to the Department of
Building and Safety pursuant to Section 12.26 A.3. may not be used for
Home-Sharing, unless an applicant demonstrates the Accessory Dwelling Unit is
the applicant's Primary Residence.



 



   (5)   No Host shall offer, advertise, or engage in Home-Sharing in a
non-Residential Building, including but not limited to, a vehicle parked on
the property, a storage shed, trailer or any temporary structure, including,
but not limited to, a tent.



 



   (6)   If a Host lists a Primary Residence on multiple listings on
multiple Hosting Platforms, only one listing may be booked at any given time.



 



   (7)   A Host may not rent all or a portion of his Primary Residence
for the purposes of Home-Sharing to more than one group of guests or under
more than one booking, at any given time.



 



   (8)   Home Sharing is not permitted in buildings that have been
converted from units subject to Chapter 15 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code
("Rent Stabilization Ordinance") to single family homes until five years
after the date of conversion.



 



   (9)   Except for allowable Home Occupations, non-residential uses
including, but not limited to, sales or exchange of products, events that
charge a fee, or the promotion, display or servicing of any product shall not
be permitted during Home-Sharing activity.



 



   (10)   A Host shall only advertise on a Hosting Platform that was
listed on the Host's Home-Sharing application form, unless the Host has
submitted a written request and received written approval from the Department
of City Planning to use another Hosting Platform.



 



   (11)   No more than 2 overnight guests (not including children) are
allowed per habitable room, not including kitchens, during Home-Sharing
activities.



 



   (12)   There shall be no use of sound amplifying equipment, as that
term is defined in Section 111.01(j) of this Code after 10:00 pm and no
evening outdoor congregations of more than 8 people (excluding children)
during Home-Sharing activities.  Home-Sharing activities are subject to the
noise regulations in the Los Angeles Municipal Code.



 



   (13)   A Host whose Home-Sharing registration has been suspended is
prohibited from participating in Home-Sharing for the duration of the
suspension.



 



   (14)   A Host whose Home-Sharing registration has been revoked may
not participate in Home-Sharing unless and until a new registration is
authorized.



 



   (e)   Host Requirements.



 



   (1)   A Host may be responsible for any nuisance violations, as
described in Section 12.27.1 B. of this Code, arising at the Host's Primary
Residence during Home-Sharing activities.  The Host, or owner of the Host's
Primary Residence if the Host does not own it, may be assessed a minimum
inspection fee, as specified in Section 98.0412 of this Code for each site
inspection.



 



   (2)   The Host shall keep and preserve, for a minimum period of
three years, all records regarding each Home-Sharing stay, including the
length of stay and the price paid for each stay, and any other records
required by Administrative Guidelines promulgated by the Director.



 



   (3)   On the Home-Sharing registration application, a Host shall
acknowledge and consent to Office of Finance and other City agencies'
inspection of records at all reasonable times and places for purposes of
enforcement of this Subdivision.



 



   (4)   The Host shall fully comply with all the requirements of
Article 1.7 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code (establishing the Transient
Occupancy Tax) and successor Sections.



 



   (5)   The Host shall pay a per-night fee for each night of
Home-Sharing, which will be deposited into the Short Term Rental Enforcement
Fund per the requirements in Section 5.576 of the Los Angeles Administrative
Code.  The City Council shall adopt, by resolution, a per-night fee based on
an analysis of the cost of implementing, maintaining, and enforcing this
subdivision.



 



   (6)   Every Host shall provide and maintain working fire
extinguishers, smoke detectors, and carbon monoxide detectors, in compliance
with fire, life and safety codes; information related to emergency exit
routes on the property and contact information, including the contact
information of the Host or a designated responsible agent of the Host.



 



   (7)   Every Host that lists a Primary Residence located in a Very
High Fire Hazard Severity Zone designated by the City of Los Angeles Fire
Department pursuant to Government Code Section 51178 shall include in all
Host listings and post written notices on any patio or deck that smoking is
not permitted in any exterior of the property.



 



   (8)   Every Host shall provide a code of conduct to guests that
includes the relevant provisions of this Subdivision and other information to
address behavioral, safety, security, and other matters, as required in the
Department's Administrative Guidelines.



 



   (9)   Every Host shall authorize any Hosting Platform on which his
or her Primary Residence is listed to provide to the City the Host listing
and other information described in in Subsection (f)(4).



 



   (10)   Every Host must consent to receive all City notices and
citations regarding their Home-Sharing registration by U.S. mail.



 



   (f)   Hosting Platform Responsibilities.



 



   (1)   Hosting Platforms shall not process or complete any Booking
Service transaction for any Person unless the Person has a valid Home-Sharing
registration number issued by the City or a pending registration status
number.



 



   (2)   Hosting Platforms shall not process or complete any Booking
Service transaction for any Host listing that has exceeded the authorized
120-day limit in one calendar year unless the Host has obtained an Extended
Home-Sharing approval.



 



   (3)   Within 45 days of the effective date of this Ordinance,
Hosting Platforms with listings located in the City shall provide to the
Department of City Planning contact information for an employee or
representative responsible for responding to requests for information,
including requests related to possible violations of this Subdivision. 
Hosting Platforms that commence listings in the City after the effective date
must provide this information prior to facilitating Home-Sharing activity or
providing Booking Services within the City.



 



   (4)   Subject to applicable laws, a Hosting Platform with listings
in the City shall provide to the Department of City Planning, on at least a
monthly basis, in a format as specified by the City, the Home-Sharing
registration number of each listing, the name of the person responsible for
each listing, the street address of each listing and, for each booking that
occurs within the reporting period, the number of days booked.



 



   (5)   In the event a Hosting Platform has entered into an agreement
with the Office of Finance to collect and remit Transient Occupancy Tax
pursuant to Los Angeles Municipal Code Section 21.7.1 et seq., and a Host has
assigned the responsibilities for the collection and remittance of the
Transient Occupancy Tax to the Hosting Platform, then the Hosting Platform
and the Host shall have the same duties and liabilities, including but not
limited to the collection and remittance of the tax to the City on a monthly
basis.



 



   (6)   Exception.  The provisions of this paragraph shall not apply
to a Hosting Platform whenever it (a) complies with the Administrative
Guidelines, issued by DCP and approved by resolution of the City Council,
that describe how the Platform shall satisfy the Hosting Platform
responsibilities in this paragraph, or (b) enters into a Platform Agreement,
the terms of which shall be set forth in a master Platform Agreement approved
by the City Council, that establishes the manner in which the Hosting
Platform supports the City's enforcement of this subdivision and meets the
purposes of the Platform responsibilities in this paragraph.  Each
individual Platform Agreement shall be approved by the City Council.



 



   (g)   Enforcement of Violations.



 



   (1)   The provisions in this Subsection shall be in addition to any
criminal, civil or other legal remedy established by law that may be pursued
to address violations of this Subdivision.



 



   (2)   Any Person who has failed to comply with the provisions of
this Subdivision may be subject to the provisions of Section 11.00 of this
Code.  The owner and/or operator of any property used for Short Term
Rentals, including the Host or owner of any Host Primary Residence, may be
assessed a minimum inspection fee, as specified in Section 98.0412 of this
Code for each site inspection.



 



   (3)   The Director may, at any time, require the modification,
discontinuance, or revocation of any Home-Sharing registration in the manner
prescribed in Subparagraph (c)(4).



 



   (4)   The ACE program in Article 1.2 of this Chapter may be utilized
to issue administrative citations and impose fines pursuant to this
Subdivision.  The citation shall be served by personal service or by
depositing in the mail for delivery by the United States Postal Service, in a
sealed envelope, postage prepaid, addressed to the operator of the Short Term
Rental, the Host, and/or the property owner, if different than the operator
or Host, shown on the County's last equalized property tax assessment roll. 
Fines for violations of this subdivision shall be as follows:



 



   (i)   Hosting Platform:  a $1,000 fine per day shall be imposed for
any of the following violations:



 



   a.   Completing a Booking Service transaction for each listing
without a valid City Home-Sharing registration number or pending registration
status number.



 



   b.   Completing a Booking Service transaction for each listing where
more than one property is affiliated with a single Host, or each listing
where the Host's home address does not match the listing location.



 



   c.   Completing a Booking Service transaction for any listing for a
Rental Unit where the Host's Home-Sharing or Extended Home-Sharing
registration has been revoked or suspended by the City.



 



   d.   Completing a Booking Service transaction for any Rental Unit
lacking Extended Home-Sharing approval that has exceeded the authorized
120-day limit for hosting Short-Term Rentals in one calendar year.



 



   (ii)   Owner of Primary Residence and/or Host and/or Person:



 



   a.   A daily fine of $500, or two times the nightly rate charged,
whichever is greater, for advertising a Rental Unit for the purposes of
Short-Term Rental in violation of this Subdivision.



 



   b.   A daily fine of $2,000, or two times the nightly Rent charged,
whichever is greater, for each day of Home-Sharing activity beyond the 120
day limit in a calendar year, unless the Host has a valid Extended
Home-Sharing Registration.



 



   c.   For all other violations of this subdivision, the
administrative fine shall be levied according to the amounts described in
Section 11.2.04(a)(2) of this Code.  The square footage for the use in
calculating the fine shall be the amount of indoor space to which the
Transient guest has access.  If the square footage is unable to be
ascertained, it shall be deemed to be between 500 and 2,499 square feet.



 



   (iii)   The fine amounts listed above shall be updated annually,
from the date of effective date of this ordinance, according to the Consumer
Price Index for All Urban Consumers (CPI-U).



 



   (h)   Extended Home-Sharing.  For Hosts who participate in Extended
Home-Sharing, the following shall apply:



 



   (1)   Application and Eligibility Requirements.



 



   (i)   Ministerial Approval.  Extended Home-Sharing may be approved
by the Director if, in addition to the eligibility requirements for
Home-Sharing, all of the following requirements are met:



 



   a.   The Host maintains a current Home-Sharing registration and has
maintained a Home-Sharing registration for at least six months or has hosted
for at least 60 days based on substantial evidence provided by the Host or
Hosting Platform;



 



   b.   No more than one Citation was issued within the prior three
years; and



 



   c.   The Host provides proof of mailing of a notification concerning
commencement of Extended Home-Sharing, which includes a Director-issued
publication outlining the complaint process, to adjacent and abutting owners
and occupants on a form provided by the Department.



 



   (ii)   Discretionary Approval.  A discretionary review of an
Extended Home-Sharing application is required if the Host complies with
Subparagraph (h)(1)(i)a., but two Citations have been issued within the prior
three years.



 



   a.   If the Director finds that the matter may have a significant
effect on neighboring properties, the Director may set the matter for public
hearing.  Written notice of the hearing shall be sent by First Class Mail at
least 21 days prior to the hearing to the applicant, owners and tenants of
the property involved, owners and tenants of all properties adjacent and
abutting the proposed Extended Home-Sharing activity, the City Councilmember
representing the area in which the property is located, and the applicable
Neighborhood Council.  If the Director determines that the matter will not
have a significant effect on neighboring properties, no hearing shall be held.



 



   b.   The Extended Home-Sharing application may only be approved if,
in addition to the eligibility requirements for Home-Sharing, all of the
following requirements are met, to the satisfaction of the Director of
Planning:



 




   1.   The Host provides proof of mailing of a notification, which
includes a Director-issued publication outlining the complaint process, to
adjacent and abutting owners and occupants on a form provided by the
Department;




 




   2.   In consideration of any comments received by the public on the
application, the Director finds the use is in substantial conformance with
the following findings:




 




   A.   That the Extended Home-Sharing will enhance the built
environment in the surrounding neighborhood or will perform a function or
provide a service that is essential or beneficial to the community, city or
region;




 




   B.   That the Extended Home-Sharing operations and other significant
features will be compatible with and will not adversely affect or further
degrade adjacent properties, the surrounding neighborhood, the availability
of housing, or the public health, welfare, and safety;




 




   C.   That the Extended Home-Sharing substantially conforms with the
purpose, intent, and provisions of the General Plan, the applicable community
plan, and any applicable specific plan; and




 




   D.   That there is no substantial evidence of continued nuisance
behavior from the location.




 



   c.   If no appeal is filed within 15 days from the date of the
Director's determination approving or denying an Extended Home-Sharing
application, the Director's decision is final.  An appeal to the Area
Planning Commission may be filed by the applicant or any adjacent and
abutting owner and occupant.  An appeal shall be filed at the public counter
of the Planning Department within 15 days of the date of the Director's
decision.  The appeal shall set forth specifically how the appellant
believes the Director's findings and decision are in error.  The Area
Planning Commission may grant, conditionally grant or deny the appeal.  The
failure of the Commission to act upon an appeal within 75 days after the
expiration of the appeal period, or within an additional period as may be
agreed upon by the applicant and the Director, shall be deemed a denial of
the appeal and the original action on the matter shall become final.



 



   (2)   Ineligibility.  If the Host's Home-Sharing registration has
been suspended or revoked, the Host is not eligible to apply for Extended
Home-Sharing for two years from the effective date of the revocation or
suspension or as long as a Citation remains open or unresolved, whichever is
later.



 



   (3)   Expiration and Renewal.  An Extended Home-Sharing
registration is valid for one year from the date of issuance.  An Extended
Home-Sharing registration is subject to the same expiration and renewal terms
described in Subparagraph (c)(3) and may be renewed annually if the Host
meets the same renewal requirements in that subparagraph.



 



   (4)   Revocations.  An Extended Home Sharing approval shall be
revoked if there are two Citations within a registration year in accordance
with the process set forth in Paragraph (c)(4).  Pursuant to the revocation,
the Host shall be prohibited from participating in Home-Sharing for two years
from the effective date of the Notice of Revocation or as long as a Citation
remains open or unresolved, whichever is later.



 



   (i)   Administration and Regulations.  No Person shall fail to
comply with the Administrative Guidelines.



 



   (j)   Effective Date.  This ordinance shall take effect on July 1,
2019.



 



   (k)   Severability.  If any provision of this Subdivision is found
to be unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent
jurisdiction, that invalidity shall not affect the remaining provisions of
this Subdivision which can be implemented without the invalidated provisions,
and to this end, the invalid provisions of this Subdivision are declared to
be severable.  The City Council hereby declares that it would have adopted
each and every provision and portion thereof not declared invalid or
unconstitutional, without regard to whether any portion of the ordinance
would subsequently be declared invalid or unconstitutional.



 



   33.   Accessory Dwelling Units (ADU) and Junior Accessory Dwelling
Units (JADU).  (Added by Ord. No. 186,481, Eff. 12/19/19.)



 



   (a)   Purpose.  The purpose of this subdivision is to provide for
the creation of ADUs and JADUs consistent with California Government Code
Sections 65852.2 and 65852.22, as amended from time to time.



 



   (b)   Applicability.  The following development standards shall
apply:



 



   (1)    A detached ADU shall be approved if in compliance with all of
the provisions provided in Paragraphs (c) and (d).



 



   (2)    An attached ADU shall be approved if in compliance with all
of the provisions provided in Paragraphs (c) and (e).



 



   (3)    A Movable Tiny House (MTH) shall be approved if in compliance
with all of the provisions in Paragraph (c), except for those provisions in
Paragraph (c) which apply solely to buildings and structures; and all of the
provisions in Paragraph (f).



 



   (4)    A JADU shall be approved if in compliance with all of the
provisions provided in Sections 65852.2(e)(1)(A) and 65852.22 of the
Government Code.



 



   (5)    An ADU described by Section 65852.2(e)(1)(A) or (C) of the
Government Code shall be approved if in compliance with all of the applicable
provisions in Section 65852.2(e) of the Government Code.



 



   (6)   An ADU described by Section 65852.2(e)(1)(B) or (D) of the
Government Code shall be approved if in compliance with all of the applicable
provisions in Section 65852.2(e) of the Government Code; and all of the
applicable provisions of Paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) of this subdivision,
except for those provisions which do not allow such an ADU otherwise in
compliance with all applicable provisions in Section 65852.2(e) of the
Government Code; and all of the provisions provided in Paragraph (g).



 



   (c)   Development Standards.



 



   (1)   Comply with all applicable objective provisions required
pursuant to Chapter 1 of this Code, including provisions stated in the
underlying applicable zone and height district, Specific Plan, Historic
Preservation Overlay Zone, Community Planning Implementation Overlay and
other applicable zoning ordinances, policies or other documents established
pursuant to Chapter 1, Article 3 of this Code.  In any instance where there
is conflict, this subdivision shall govern.  Notwithstanding the prior two
sentences and notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Subdivision 33:



 



   (i)   No minimum lot size requirement shall apply to an ADU;



 



   (ii)    No minimum square footage requirement for either an attached
or detached ADU shall apply that prohibits an efficiency unit;



 



   (iii)    No other minimum or maximum size for an ADU, including size
based upon a percentage of the proposed or existing primary dwelling, or
limits on lot coverage, floor area ratio, open space, and minimum lot size,
shall apply for either attached or detached dwellings that does not permit at
least an 800 square foot ADU that is at least 16 feet in height with 4-foot
side and rear yard setbacks to be constructed in compliance with all other
local development standards.



 



   (2)   An ADU which complies with this subdivision shall not require
a discretionary planning approval.  The ADU project shall be reviewed in a
ministerial and administrative manner, limited to only considering the
project's compliance with the applicable objective standards.  An
application to create an ADU shall be acted upon within 60 days from the date
the City receives a completed application if there is an existing
single-family or multifamily dwelling on the lot.  If the permit application
to create an ADU unit is submitted with a permit application to create a new
single-family dwelling on the lot, the City may delay acting on the permit
application for the ADU until the City acts on the permit application to
create the new single-family dwelling.  If the applicant requests a delay,
the 60-day time period shall be tolled for the period of the delay.



 



   (3)   Except where otherwise prohibited by this subdivision, an ADU
is permitted in all zones where residential uses are permitted by right.



 



   (4)   No ADU is permitted on any lot that is located in both a Very
High Fire Hazard Severity Zone designated by the City of Los Angeles Fire
Department pursuant to Government Code Section 51178 and a Hillside Area as
defined by the Hillside Area Map pursuant to Section 12.03 of this Code,
unless it meets one of the following exceptions:



 



   (i)   The ADU is located within the boundaries of either the
Northeast Los Angeles Community Plan Area or  the Silver Lake - Echo Park -
Elysian Valley Community Plan Area; or



 



   (ii)   The ADU complies with all of the following requirements:



 



   a.   Notwithstanding Subparagraph (c)(10) below, the ADU is
protected throughout with an approved automatic fire sprinkler system, in
compliance with the Los Angeles Plumbing Code;



 



   b.   Notwithstanding Subparagraph (c)(12) below, one off-street
parking space is provided for the ADU; and



 



   c.   The ADU is located on a lot fronting on a street that is
improved with a roadway width of 20 feet or more in unobstructed width, as
measured along the entire frontage of the subject property, after any
associated dedication and improvement.  In the event the ADU is located on a
Through Lot or a Corner Lot, the lot must front on at least one street that
is improved with a roadway width of 20 feet or more in unobstructed width
after any associated dedication and improvement.



 



   (5)   Except as otherwise permitted by this subdivision, only one
ADU is permitted per lot.



 



   (6)   An ADU may only be created on a lot that contains a proposed
or existing dwelling.  Other non-residential uses and accessory residential
uses may be permitted on the lot, consistent with the uses permitted by the
zone.



 



   (7)   No passageway for an ADU, nor space between buildings, as per
LAMC 12.21 C.2. and LAMC 12.21 C.5.(d), is required in conjunction with the
construction of an ADU.  Building Code separation requirements still apply.



 



   (8)   No additional setbacks shall be required for an existing
living area or accessory structure, or a structure constructed in the same
location and to the same dimensions as an existing structure, converted to an
ADU or portion of an ADU.  A setback of no more than 4 feet from the side
and rear lot lines shall be required for an accessory dwelling unit that is
not converted from an existing structure or a new structure constructed in
the same location and to the same dimensions as an existing structure.



 



   (9)   ADUs are required to comply with all applicable Building and
Residential Codes for the proposed use.



 



   (10)   ADUs are not required to provide fire sprinklers if they are
not required for the primary residence.



 



   (11)   ADUs located where a private sewage disposal system is being
used, shall require approval by the local health officer.



 



   (12)   Parking Requirements:



 



   (i)   ADU Parking.  One parking space is required for an ADU,
except that no parking is required for an ADU that is:



 



   a.   Located within one-half mile walking distance of a public
transit.  For this purpose, public transit means a location, including, but
not limited to, a bus stop or train station, where the public may access
buses, trains, subways, and other forms of transportation that charge set
fares, run on fixed routes, and are available to the public; or



 



   b.   Located within one block of a designated pick-up and drop-off
location of a car share vehicle; or



 



   c.   Located in an architecturally and historically significant
district listed in or formally determined eligible for listing in the
National Register of Historic Places or California Register of Historical
Resources or located in any City Historic Preservation Overlay Zone; or



 



   d.   Part of the proposed or existing primary residence or an
accessory structure.



 



   (ii)   ADU Parking Location.  ADU parking is allowed in any yard
area or passageway.  When located in a required front yard, the parking must
be located on an existing driveway. Parking may be provided through tandem
parking where two or more automobiles are parked on a driveway or in any
other location on a lot, lined up behind one another.  Driveway access areas
located in the required front yard shall not be expanded to provide required
parking. Other objective parking and driveway standards in the LAMC apply,
including those found in Sections 12.21 A.5. and 12.21 A.6.  However,
Section 12.21 A.6.(d) of this Code shall not apply to parking required for an
ADU.



 



   (iii)   Replacement Parking.  No replacement parking shall be
required when a garage, carport or covered parking structure is demolished in
conjunction with the construction of an ADU or converted to an ADU.



 



   (d)   Detached Accessory Dwelling Unit Requirements.  Detached
ADUs, except those described in Paragraph (f), below, must comply with all
provisions of Paragraph (c) and all of the following provisions provided in
this Paragraph (d).  In addition, Detached ADUs must comply with all
applicable provisions of Section 12.21 C.5. that are not in conflict with
these Paragraphs (c) and (d).



 



   (1)   The Floor Area for a detached ADU shall not exceed 1,200
square feet.  Limits on Floor Area on a lot apply separately and may further
limit allowable Detached ADU square footage, except as otherwise provided by
this Subdivision 33.



 



   (2)   Structures containing a detached ADU shall not be greater than
two stories.



 



   (3)   Detached ADUs shall not be located between a proposed or
existing dwelling unit and the street adjoining the front yard, except in the
following cases:



 



   (i)   Where the ADU is on a Through Lot and complies with LAMC
Section 12.21 C.5.(k); or



 



   (ii)   Where the ADU is being added to a lawfully existing garage or
accessory structure building.



 



   (e)   Attached Accessory Dwelling Unit Requirements.  Attached ADUs
can be either attached to or completely contained within an existing or
proposed dwelling, and must comply with all provisions in Paragraph (c) and
all of the following provisions in this Paragraph (e):



 



   (1)   If there is an existing primary dwelling, the Floor Area of an
attached ADU may not exceed 50 percent of the existing primary dwelling.



 



   (2)   Limits on Floor Area on a lot apply separately and may further
limit allowable attached ADU square footage, except as otherwise provided by
this Subdivision 33.



 



   (3)   Nothing in this subdivision shall prohibit an attached ADU
with a Floor Area of less than 850 square feet, or less than 1,000 square
feet for an attached ADU that provides for more than one bedroom.



 



   (f)   Requirements for Movable Tiny Houses as Accessory Dwelling
Units.  A Movable Tiny House must comply with all of the provisions provided
in Paragraph (c) except for any provisions in Paragraph (c) which apply
solely to buildings and structures; and this Paragraph (f):



 



   (1)   Only one Movable Tiny House is allowed to be located on a lot
and no lot may be approved for more than one moveable tiny house in a twelve
month period.



 



   (2)   When sited on a lot, the undercarriage (wheels, axles, tongue
and hitch) shall be hidden from view.



 



   (3)   The wheels and leveling or support jacks must sit on a paved
surface compliant with LAMC 12.21 A.6.(c).



 



   (4)   Mechanical equipment shall be incorporated into the structure
and not located on the roof.



 



   (5)   Movable Tiny Houses shall be connected to water, sewer and
electric utilities.



 



   (6)   Moveable Tiny Houses are not required to have separate street
addresses from the primary dwelling unit.



 



   (7)   Movable Tiny Houses are not required to have sprinklers, but
shall follow the ANSI A119.5 or NFPA 1192 standards relating to health, fire
and life-safety.



 



   (8)   Movable Tiny Houses shall have the following design elements:



 



   (i)   Cladding and Trim.  Materials used on the exterior of a
moveable tiny house shall exclude single piece composite, laminates, or
interlocked metal sheathing.



 



   (ii)   Windows and Doors.  Windows shall be at least double pane
glass and labelled for building use, and shall include exterior trim. 
Windows and doors shall not have radius corners.



 



   (iii)   Roofing.  Roofs shall have a minimum of a 12:2 pitch for
greater than 50 percent of the roof area, and shall not be composed of wooden
shingles.



 



   (iv)   Extensions.  All exterior walls and roof of a moveable any
tiny house used as an ADU shall be fixed with no slide-outs, tip-outs, nor
other forms of mechanically articulating room area extensions.



 



   (9)   Movable Tiny Houses shall not be greater than two stories.



 



   (10)   Movable Tiny Houses shall not be located between the proposed
or existing single-family dwelling unit and the street adjoining the front
yard, except where the Movable Tiny House is on a Through Lot and complies
with LAMC 12.21 C.5.(k).



 



   (g)   Accessory Dwelling Units Otherwise Required By State Law.  An
application for a building permit shall be approved to create an ADU pursuant
to Section 65852.2(e)(1)(B) or (D) of the Government Code within a
residential or mixed-use zone, in compliance with all of the applicable
provisions in Section 65852.2(e) of the Government Code; and all of the
applicable provisions of Paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) of this subdivision,
except for those provisions which do not allow such an ADU otherwise in
compliance with all applicable provisions in Section 65852.2(e) of the
Government Code; and all of the following requirements:



 



   (1)   An ADU created pursuant to Section 65852.2(e)(1)(B) of the
Government Code shall have a Floor Area of not more than 800 square feet and
a height of no more than 16 feet; and



 



   (2)   An ADU created pursuant to Section 65852.2(e)(1)(B) or (D) of
the Government Code shall not be located on any lot that is located in both a
Very High Fire Hazard Severity Zone designated by the City of Los Angeles
Fire Department pursuant to Government Code Section 51178 and a Hillside Area
as defined by the Hillside Area Map pursuant to Section 12.03 of this Code,
unless it meets one of the exceptions stated in Subparagraph (4) of Paragraph
(c) of this subdivision.



 



   (h)   General Provisions. The following general provisions apply to
all ADUs, JADUs, and lots where any ADU or JADU is located.



 



   (1)   In the event where an ADU or JADU would be created as a result
of a conversion of an entire existing dwelling unit, any newly constructed
dwelling unit located between the ADU or JADU, and the rear lot line, shall
not exceed 1,200 square feet.



 



   (2)   In cases where additional dwelling units are added to a lot
after the creation of the ADU or JADU, an ADU and JADU will be counted
towards the overall number of dwelling units as permitted by the zone.



 



   (3)   ADUs and JADUs may be rented but shall not be sold separate
from the existing or proposed dwelling unit on the same lot.  Movable Tiny
Houses may be sold when removed from the lot.



 



   (4)   Applicants for ministerial approval of a permit application
for the creation of an ADU or JADU shall not be required to correct
nonconforming zoning conditions.  For this purpose, nonconforming zoning
condition means a physical improvement on a property that does not conform to
current zoning standards.



 



   (5)    A certificate of occupancy for an ADU or JADU shall not be
issued before a certificate of occupancy for the primary dwelling.



 



   (i)   Zoning Administrator Authority.  It is the intent of the City
to retain all portions of this subdivision regarding ADUs and JADUs not in
conflict with state law.  The Zoning Administrator shall have authority to
clarify, amend or revoke any provision of this subdivision as may be
necessary to comply with any state law regarding ADUs or JADUs.



 



   (j)   Interpretation Consistent with State Law.  This subdivision
is not intended to conflict with state law.  This subdivision shall be
interpreted to be compatible with state enactments.



 



   (k)   California Coastal Act.  Nothing in this subdivision shall be
construed to supersede or in any way alter or lessen the effect or
application of the California Coastal Act of 1976 [Division 20 (commencing
with Section 30000) of the Public Resources Code], except that the Department
shall not be required to hold public hearings for coastal development permit
applications for ADUs or JADUs.



 



   (l)   Enforcement.  Enforcement of building standards pursuant to
Article 1 (commencing with Section 17960) of Chapter 5 of Part 1.5 of
Division 13 of the Health and Safety Code for an ADU described in paragraph
(1) or (2) below, upon request of an owner of an ADU, shall be delayed
subject to compliance with Section 17980.12 of the Health and Safety Code:



 



   (1)    The ADU unit was built before January 1, 2020.



 



   (2)    The ADU was built on or after January 1, 2020, in a local
jurisdiction that, at the time the ADU was built, had a noncompliant ADU
ordinance, but the ordinance is compliant at the time the request is made.



 



   B.   (None)



 



   C.   AREA.



 



   1.   Building Lines – Where a Building Line or Setback Line has
been established by ordinance, the space between such Building or Setback
Line and the front or side lot line may be used as the front or side yard, as
the case may be, in lieu of the front or side yard required by this article.



 



   2.   Side Yard Waived for First Story Garage – Where a residential
building is more than two stories or 28 feet in height and the first story is
designed and used solely for automobile parking or other accessory purpose,
the required side yard need not be increased in width for said first story;
provided that the floor surface above such story is not more than seven feet
above the adjacent ground elevation at any point, except that the floor
surface may be eight feet above the adjacent ground elevation at the exits
and entrances to the automobile parking area. (Added by Ord. No. 109,714,
Eff. 8/26/57.)



 



   3.   Incentives to Produce Housing in the Greater Downtown Housing
Incentive Area.  (Amended by Ord. No. 179,076, Eff. 9/23/07.) 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter to the contrary, for lots
in the R4, RAS4, R5, CR, C2, C4, and C5 zones in the Greater Downtown Housing
Incentive Area, the following shall apply:



 



   (a)   No yard requirements shall apply except as required by the
Downtown Design Guide as approved by the City Planning Commission.  The
Director of Planning or his/her designee shall stamp and sign the plans
showing the required yards.  The applicant shall submit the stamped and
signed plans to the Department of Building and Safety along with the plans
submitted for a building permit.  (Amended by Ord. No. 186,325, Eff.
11/11/19.)



 



   (b)   For the purpose of calculating the buildable area for
residential (including Apartment Hotel or mixed-use) buildings, the buildable
area shall be the same as the lot area.



 



   (c)   The maximum number of dwelling units or guest rooms permitted
shall not be limited by the lot area provisions of this chapter so long as
the total floor area utilized by guest rooms does not exceed the total floor
area utilized by dwelling units.



 



   (d)   Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 12.21 G.2. of this
Code to the contrary, there shall be no prescribed percentage of the required
open space that must be provided as either common open space or private open
space.



 



   4.   (Repealed by Ord. No. 181,076, Eff. 3/28/10.)



 



   5.   (Repealed by Ord. No. 181,076, Eff. 3/28/10.)



 



   6.   Front Yard – Sloping Lot – Where the elevation of the
ground at a point fifty (50) feet from the front lot line of a lot and midway
between the side lot lines differs ten  (10) feet or more from the curb
level, the front yard need not exceed fifty (50) percent of that required in
the zone.



 



   7.   (None)



 



   8.   Front Yard – Unit Development – Where all the lots in a
frontage in an “R” Zone are developed as a unit with one–family
dwellings, the required front yard may be reduced by not more than five feet
on part of the lots, provided the average of the front yard depth for the
entire frontage is not less than the minimum front yard required in the zone
in which the property is located.



 



   9.   Side Yards Reduced – Where all the lots in a frontage are
developed as a unit with residential buildings, the required side yard may be
reduced on one side of each lot, provided that:



 



   (a)   The total combined width of the side yards on each lot is not
less than the sum of the widths of the side yards required in the zone in
which the property is located; and



 



   (b)   The buildings are so located that the narrow side yard on one
lot adjoins the wide side yard on the adjoining lot; and



 



   (c)   No side yard is less than three feet in width for buildings
two stories or less in height, nor less than three feet in width, plus the
increased width for additional stories above two stories where required by
the area regulations of the zone in which the property is located.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 138,685, Eff. 7/10/69.)



 



   Where lots comprising 50% or more of a frontage are developed with
buildings having varying side yards conforming to the above regulations, or
where all the lots in a frontage have deed restrictions requiring such
varying side yards, all the lots in such frontage may be developed in the
same manner.



 



   10.   Rear Yard – Includes One-Half Alley.  Except in the RS, R1,
RU, RZ, RMP, and R2 Zones, in computing the depth of a rear yard where the
rear yard opens onto an alley or in the RW Zone onto a court of not more than
30 feet in width, one-half the width of the alley or court may be assumed to
be a portion of the required rear yard.  (Amended by Ord. No. 177,103, Eff.
12/18/05.)



 



   11.   Rear Yard – Includes Loading Space  – Loading space
provided in accordance with this article may occupy a required rear yard or
portion thereof but in no case shall any portion of a street or alley be
counted as part of the required loading space.



 



   12.   Accessory Buildings in Yards.  Accessory buildings may be
located in a required yard in conformance with the provisions of Section
12.21 C.5.  (Amended by Ord. No. 125,278, Eff. 9/16/63.)



 



   13.   Lots Affected by Acquisitions for Public Use.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 144,536, Eff. 5/3/73.) Where a building or structure is located upon
a lot portion of which is acquired for any public use, (by condemnation,
purchase, dedication, or otherwise) by any governmental entity, or if all or
a part of a separate off-street automobile parking area serving such building
or structure is acquired for public use, such building or structure may be
maintained, and may thereafter be used, maintained or repaired without
relocating or altering the same to comply with the area regulations or
off-street automobile parking requirements of this article. Further, if such
building or structure is partially located upon the area being acquired for
public use, it may be relocated upon the same lot or premises or remodeled or
reconstructed without observing the required yard space adjacent to the new
lot line created by such acquisition, and without reducing the number of
dwelling units to conform to the area regulations of the zone in which it is
located and without observing the off-street automobile parking requirements
of this article. The exemptions provided in this paragraph permit compliance
only to the extent that such non–compliance is caused by an acquisition for
public use.



 



   If only a portion of an existing building or structure is acquired for
public use, the repair, remodeling or reconstruction of the remainder of said
building or structure which was made necessary by said acquisition, shall
conform to the provisions of the building code. Any portion of the building
or structure which is not required to be repaired, remodeled or reconstructed
by reason of said acquisition shall not be required to be made to conform to
the provisions of the building code, unless it would otherwise be required to
conform thereto independently of and in the absence of said acquisition of
only a portion of the building or structure.



 



   If a lot resulting from the acquisition of all or a portion of a parcel
for public use does not comply with the area requirements of the zone in
which it is located, or if a legally existing nonconforming lot is further
reduced in size because of such acquisition, said lot may be utilized and a
building permit shall be issued for any purpose permitted in the zone, so
long as the lot is not smaller in size or width than one-half (1/2) of the
minimum area or width required for the zone. (Amended by Ord. No. 150,362,
Eff. 1/13/78.)



 



   14.   (None)



 



   15.   (None)



 



   16.   Lot Area – Includes One-Half Alley. In computing the number
of dwelling units allowed by the minimum lot area per dwelling unit
requirements of this article on a lot abutting upon one or more alleys,
one-half the width of such alley or alleys may be assumed to be a portion of
the lot.  (Added by Ord. No. 121,925, Eff. 6/4/62.)



 



   17.   Lot Area Acreage – Includes One-Half Street.  In computing
the lot area of a lot in the A1 and A2 Zones, that portion of the width of
all abutting streets or highways, which would normally revert to the lot if
the street were vacated, may be assumed to be a portion of the lot. (Amended
By Ord. No. 133,218, Eff. 11/19/66.)



 



   18.   Lot Area in Hillside Subdivisions – On land located within
an RA or RE Zone and also within the “H” Hillside or mountainous area,
there may be lots having less than the minimum lot area specified within said
zones and there may be a single–family dwelling on each lot if the lot is
shown with a separate letter or lot number on a recorded Subdivision Tract
Map or Parcel Map. (Amended By Ord. No. 139,736, Eff. 1/31/70.)



 



   19.   Through Lot – May Be Two Building Site – Where a through
lot has a depth of 150 feet or more, each half of the lot may be improved as
though it is a separate lot, with the rear line of each approximately
equidistant from the front lot lines. The location of all buildings and the
number of dwelling units therein shall comply with the requirements of the
zone in which the through lot is located, except that in any case there may
be at least one single–family dwelling on each half. (Amended By Ord. No
116,389, Eff. 6/29/60.)



 



   The provisions of this subdivision shall not apply to lots in the RE
Zone, or to lots in any zone that are also within the “H” Hillside or
Mountainous Area. (Amended by Ord. No. 127,777, Eff. 8/1/64.)



 



   20.   Projections Into Yards.



 



   (a)   A canopy above an entrance and extending over a driveway which
leads to a detached garage or a parking space not abutting a dwelling, for
the temporary shelter of automobiles, commonly referred to as a
porte–cochere, may project into a required side yard, but not nearer than
30 in to any lot line, provided such structure is not more than one story in
height and 20 feet in length, and is entirely open on at least three sides
except for the necessary supporting columns and customary architectural
features. (Amended by Ord. No. 138,685, Eff. 7/10/69.)



 



   (b)   Cornices, belt courses, sills, or other similar architectural
features (not including bay windows or vertical projections), may project
into a required side yard, other than the side yard adjoining the street lot
line of a corner lot, not more than two inches for each one foot of width of
such yard, and may project into a required front yard, rear yard, side yard
adjoining the street lot line of a corner lot, passageway, or other open
space not more than 30 inches, except as provided in Section 12.08.5 C1.(c),
provided the width of a side yard adjoining the street lot line of a corner
lot is not reduced to less than three feet. Eaves may project into a required
side yard, other than the side yard adjoining the street lot line of a corner
lot, not more than four inches for each one foot of width of such side yard,
provided the width of such side yard is not reduced to less than two and
one-half feet. Eaves may also project into a required front yard, rear yard,
side yard adjoining the street lot line of a corner lot, passageway, or other
open space not more than 30 inches, provided the width of a side yard
adjoining the street lot line of a corner lot is not reduced to less than two
and one-half feet. Chimneys may project into a required passageway not more
than one foot and may project into a required front yard, rear yard, side
yard, or other required open space, except as provided in Section 12.08.5
C.1.(c), not more than two feet, provided the width of any required side yard
is not reduced to less than three feet.  (Amended by Ord. No. 138,685, Eff.
7/10/69.)



 



   (c)   Fire escapes may extend or project into any front, side or
rear yard not more than four (4) feet.



 



   (d)   (Amended by Ord. No. 138,685, Eff. 7/10/69.) Except in an RW
Zone, where a required passage may not be reduced in any manner, open,
unenclosed stairways or balconies, not covered by a roof or canopy, may
extend or project into a required rear yard not more than four feet, and such
balconies may extend into a required front yard, passageway, other open
space, or the side yard adjoining the street lot line of a corner lot, not
more than 30 inches, provided the width of a side yard adjoining the street
lot line or a corner lot is not reduced to less than 30 inches.



 



   (e)   Open, unenclosed porches, platforms, or landing places
(including access stairways thereto) not covered by a roof or canopy, which
do not extend above the level of the first floor of the building, may extend
or project into the required front yard, side yard, rear yard, passageway, or
other open space, not more than six feet, provided that in no event shall any
such porch, platform or landing space be more than six feet above the natural
ground level adjacent thereto. (Amended by Ord. No. 138,685, Eff. 7/10/69.)



 



   (f)   Fences and Walls in the A and R Zones.  (Amended by Ord. No.
154,798, Eff. 2/20/81.)



 



   (1)   Fences and Walls.  For the purposes of Article 2 through 6 of
this chapter, the terms “fence” and “wall” shall include latticework,
ornamental fences, screen walls, hedges or thick growths of shrubs or trees.
Fence and wall height shall be measured from the natural ground level
adjacent thereto.



 



   (2)   Front Yards.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,754, Eff. 3/5/01.) 
In the R Zones, fences, walls, and landscape architectural features of guard
railing around depressed ramps, not more than three and one-half feet in
height above the natural ground level adjacent to the feature, railing or
ramp, may be located and maintained in any required front yard.  In the A
Zones (including the RA Zone), a fence or wall not more than six feet in
height may be located and maintained in the required front yard.  In both
the A and R Zones, a fence or wall not more than eight feet in height may be
located and maintained in the required front yard when authorized by a Zoning
Administrator pursuant to Section 12.24 X.7.



 



   In both the A and R zones, an unobstructed chainlink fence not more
than ten feet in height may be located and maintained in all yards when
required by the Department of Building and Safety pursuant to the provisions
of Sections 91.3303 and 91.6103 and Division 89 of Article 1 of Chapter IX of
this Code.



 



   (3)   Side Yards, Rear Yards and Other Spaces.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)  A fence or wall not more than eight feet in
height may be located and maintained within the required side yard, rear yard
or other open space of any lot in an RW Zone and within the required side
yard, rear yard or other open space of a lot within any other A or R zone
which is 40 feet or more in width, provided the lot is not located within the
boundary of a “Hillside Area”, as defined in Section 91.7003 of this Code.



 



   A fence or wall not more than six feet in height may be located and
maintained within the required side yard, rear yard or other open space of
any lot in an A or R Zone, other than an RW Zone, which is less than 40 feet
in width or which is located within the boundary of a “Hillside Area”, as
defined in Section 91.7003 of this Code, except that in either case a fence
or wall not more than eight feet in height may be located in the yards or
other open space when authorized by a Zoning Administrator pursuant to
Section 12.21A2.



 



   In the A Zones (including the RA Zone), a fence or wall not more than
eight feet in height may be located on the side street lot line of any
reversed corner lot; provided, however, that if the lot is located within the
boundary of a “Hillside Area”, as defined in Section 91.7003, the fence
or wall shall not exceed six feet in height.



 



   In the R Zones, other than the RW Zones, a fence or wall located within
five feet of the side street lot line of a reversed corner lot may not exceed
three and one-half feet in height.  In the RW Zones, a fence or wall located
within three feet of the side street lot line of either a corner lot or a
reversed corner lot may not exceed three and one-half feet in height.



 



   (4)   Access Ways.  Access ways shall be maintained in accordance
with the provisions of Section 12.22C20(1).



 



   (5)   Maintenance of Fences and Walls.  Fences shall be maintained
in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.21A9.



 



   (6)   Masonry and Concrete Walls.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492,
Eff. 10/10/00.) A masonry or concrete fence or wall over three and one-half
feet in height shall be built in accordance with the provisions of Section
91.106.1 of this Code.



 



   (7)   Fences and Walls Enclosing Parking Areas.  Fences and walls
enclosing parking areas shall be provided in accordance with the provisions
of Section 12.21A6.



 



   (8)   Fences and Walls Around Pools.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492,
Eff. 10/10/00.) A fence or wall not exceeding four and one-half feet in
height, as required by Section 91.6109 of this Code, may be erected and
maintained to enclose a swimming pool, fish pond or other body of water
existing in a required yard prior to June 1, 1956.



 



   (9)   Fences and Walls Around Schools.  An open mesh type fence to
enclose an elementary or high school site may be located and maintained in
any required yard.



 



   (10)   Fences and Walls Around Tennis Courts.  The provisions of
Section 12.20 C 20(m) shall control with respect to tennis court fences.



 



   (11)   Fences and Walls at Street Intersections.  Fences and Walls
at street intersections shall comply with the provisions of 62.200 of this
Code.



 



   (g)   (None)



 



   (h)   A one–story covered passageway, commonly referred to as a
breezeway, not over five feet in width, extending from a main residential
building to a private garage or other accessory building may be erected and
maintained in a required rear yard. Such passageway shall be located not less
than five feet from all lot lines and shall be unenclosed, except that on a
corner lot there may be a wall or fence not over six feet in height along the
street side of such passageway.



 



   (i)   Landscape features such as trees, shrubs, flowers or plants,
shall be permitted in any required front, side, or rear yard, passageway or
other open space, provided that they do not produce a hedge effect contrary
to the provisions of Paragraphs (f) and (g) above. (Amended by Ord. No.
107,884, Eff. 9/23/56.)



 



   (j)   Name plates, signs, and advertising matter, as permitted by
this article, may be located in any required front yard, side yard, rear
yard, passageway or other open space; provided that the total area of all
identification signs in any required yard, shall not exceed 12 square feet,
and any sign appertaining to the sale of farm products raised or produced on
the premises shall be located at least ten feet from any side lot line. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 107,884, Eff. 9/23/56.)



 



   (k)   Awnings or canopies without enclosing walls or screening may
be attached to the exterior walls of a Group R or Group H Occupancy, provided
that: such awnings or canopies do not extend more than four feet into a
required front yard or building line space at the front of a lot, and have no
vertical support within said yard or space; such awnings or canopies do not
extend more than 30 inches into a required side yard, rear yard, building
line space at the side of a lot, passageway or other open space, but in no
event nearer than 30 inches to an interior lot line; and where such awnings
or canopies project into a required front or side yard, passageway or other
open space, they may extend only over the windows or doors to be protected
and for 12 inches on each side thereof. (Amended by Ord. No. 121,925, Eff.
6/4/62.)



 



   (l)   Notwithstanding the provisions of this subdivision, no
architectural feature, fire escape, porch, balcony, or other projection
permitted in a yard, passageway or other open space, shall be located and
maintained so as to preclude complete access about and on each side of and in
close proximity to main buildings and accessory living quarters at all times.
Where a fence or wall is provided or maintained, a gate or other suitable
opening at least two and one–half feet in width shall be deemed adequate
for access through said fence or wall; provided further that where such fence
or wall is located adjacent to an alley and is over six feet in height,
adequate access shall be provided through such wall or fence onto the
adjacent alley. At least five feet of clear and open space shall be
maintained between any two main buildings, including the projections, on any
one lot.  (Amended by Ord. No. 154,798, Eff. 2/20/81.)



 



   (m)   (Added by Ord. No. 151,466, Eff. 10/27/78.)  Tennis or paddle
tennis courts, including fences and light which are accessory to a primary
residential use on the same lot in the A or R Zones may extend into a portion
of the required rear yard of such lot if such court and its appurtenances
meet all of the following conditions:



 



   (i)   The court surface is not more than 2 feet above the natural
adjacent grade at any point.



 



   (ii)   The court is enclosed with a fence no higher than 10 feet
above the court surface and all portions of such fence above a height of six
feet are an open chain link type fence.



 



   (iii)   Any light standards and fixtures are no higher than 20 feet
above the court surface.



 



   (iv)   The court is located a distance from the rear lot line at
least equal to the width of the side yard required for a one–story main
building in the zone but in no event less than 5 feet.



 



   21.   Lot Widths and Yard Requirements for RE15–H Zones.Lot widths
and yard area requirements for the R1 Zone shall apply to lots in the
RE15–H Zone if said lots are shown as numbered lots on a tentative
subdivision tract map or parcel map approved by the Advisory Agency or the
Director of Planning for the City of Los Angeles prior to January 1, 1967 and
recorded in the Office of the Los Angeles County Recorder prior to July 1,
1967.  (Added by Ord. No. 134,673, Eff. 7/31/67.)



 



   22.   Width and Area Flag Lots in Mountainous Areas.  Where a flag
lot is situated in the "H" Hillside or the Very High Fire Hazard Severity
Zone pursuant to Section 57.4908 of the Municipal Code, the lot width may be
calculated by measuring the width of the main buildable portion of said flag
lot on a straight line parallel to the general direction of the frontage
street and midway between the rear and front lines of the main buildable
portion of the flag lot provided, however, that the main buildable portion
contains the lot width and not less than 90% of the lot area required for
lots in the zone classification in which the flag lot is situated, said lot
area to be calculated exclusive of the area contained within the access strip
portion of the flag lot.  (Amended by Ord. No. 176,943, Eff. 10/5/05.)



 



   23.   (Repealed by Ord. No. 164,145, Eff. 12/8/88.)



 



   24.   Zero Side Yard Lots –  Remain Separate Lots.  If several
lots are developed with building crossing lot lines, as permitted by Section
12.08.3 B.1. of this Code, they shall remain separate lots, notwithstanding
such construction across the lot lines.  (Added by Ord. No. 159,532, Eff.
1/3/85.)



 



   25.   Zero Side and Rear Yard Development in Multiple Residential
Zones.  In the R2, RD, R3, RAS3, R4, RAS4, and R5 Zones, lots may be
developed with either attached dwellings crossing lot lines or detached
dwellings not crossing lot lines.  These dwellings may contain one dwelling
unit on a lot and may observe the lot width, yard, passageway and other
requirements for development in the RZ Zone.  Every lot so developed shall
have a minimum lot area of 2,500 square feet.  No lots may be developed in
accordance with this subdivision unless the lots and uses are approved in
connection with a preliminary parcel map, tentative tract map or modification
approved subsequent to January 1, 1985.  Development so approved shall meet
the density requirement of the zone in which the lots are located.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 174,999, Eff. 1/15/03.)



 



   26.   Yards Required for Historically Significant Buildings. 
Notwithstanding any provision of the Los Angeles Municipal Code to the
contrary, in connection with any change of use in an historically significant
building, the yards required shall be the same as the yards observed by the
existing structures on the site.  An historically significant building is
defined as a structure that is designated on the National Register of
Historic Places, including Contributing Buildings in National Register
Historic Districts, the California Register of Historical Resources, the City
of Los Angeles List of Historic-Cultural Monuments, or a Contributing
Structure in an Historic Preservation Overlay Zone (HPOZ) established
pursuant to Section 12.20.3 of this Code.  (Added by Ord. No. 172,792, Eff.
10/4/99.)



 



   27.   Small Lot Subdivision.  (Amended by Ord. No. 185,462, Eff.
4/18/18.)  The purpose of this provision is to create alternative fee-simple
home ownership within the multi-family and commercial zones.  A small lot
subdivision shall be permitted in the RD, R3, R4, R5, RAS and the P and C
zones pursuant to an approved tract or parcel map.  A subdivision for the
purposes of small lots enables the construction of new small lot homes and
provides opportunities for the preservation of existing residential dwelling
units located on a single lot to be rehabilitated as for-sale dwellings on
individual small lots.



 



   (a)   Construction of New Small Lots.  Notwithstanding any
provisions of this Code relating to minimum lot area, in the RD, R3, R4, R5,
RAS and the P and C zones, parcels of land may be subdivided into lots which
may contain one, two or three dwelling units, provided that the density of
the subdivision complies with the minimum lot area per dwelling unit
requirement established for each zone, or, in the case of a P zone, the
density of the subdivision shall comply with the minimum lot area per
dwelling unit of the least restrictive abutting commercial or multi-family
residential zone(s).



 



   (1)   A parcel map or tract map, pursuant to Section 17.00 et seq.
of this Code, shall be required for the creation of a small lot
subdivision.  The parcel map or vesting tentative tract map must comply with
the Advisory Agency Small Lot Map Standards; and



 



   (2)   For small lot subdivision projects, no demolition, grading,
building permit or certificate of occupancy shall be issued unless the
Director of Planning has reviewed the application and determined that the
small lot subdivision project complies with the City Planning Commission's
Small Lot Design Standards.  The Director of Planning's sign-off as to
compliance with the Commission's Small Lot Design Standards is a ministerial
administrative clearance.



 



   (i)    The Director is authorized to designate one or more members
of the professional staff of the Department of City Planning to perform any
of the Director's duties in this section.  The Director shall establish an
administrative process, guidelines, procedures, requirements, and forms as
may be necessary to conduct the review of the administrative clearance to
determine conformance with the Small Lot Design Standards.



 



   (ii)    The application for this administrative clearance shall be
filed concurrent with the tract or parcel map application and at any time a
subsequent alteration or addition is proposed.



 



   (iii)    As a condition of approval, all small lot subdivisions
shall be required to conform to the plans approved by the Director of
Planning.



 



   (3)   The minimum lot width shall be 18 feet and the minimum lot
area shall be 600 square feet.  The Advisory Agency shall designate the
location of front yards in the subdivision tract or parcel map approval.



 



   (4)   Access shall be provided to a lot containing a dwelling unit
and to its required parking spaces, pursuant to Section 12.21 A.4.(a) by way
of a public or private street, an alley, or an access easement.



 



   (5)   The lot area coverage by all structures shall not exceed 75%
of an approved small lot, unless the tract or parcel map provides an open
space easement equivalent to 25% of the lot area of each lot not meeting this
provision.



 



   (6)   No front, side, or rear yard shall be required between
interior lot lines created within an approved small lot subdivision.



 



   (7)   The provisions of the front yard of the underlying zone shall
apply to the Front Lot Line of the perimeter of the subdivision.



 



   (8)   The following shall apply to the perimeter of the subdivision:



 



   (i)   For any subdivision that shares a property line with an R1 or
more restrictive single family zone, the provisions of the front yard, side
yard and rear yard of the underlying zone shall apply. A minimum five-foot
side yard shall be required.



 



   (ii)   For any subdivision that does not share a property line with
an R1 or more restrictive single family zone,  the following shall apply:



 



   a.   A minimum five-foot yard shall be required along the Side Lot
Line of the perimeter of the subdivision; and



 



   b.   A minimum ten-foot yard shall be required along the Rear Lot
Line of the perimeter of the subdivision, except that where the Rear Lot Line
abuts an alley a minimum five-foot rear yard shall be required along the
perimeter of the subdivision.



 



   (9)   No passageway pursuant to Section 12.21 C.2. of this Code
shall be required.



 



   (10)   In a P zone, lots may be developed as a small lot
subdivision, provided that the General Plan land use designation of the lot
is "commercial" or "multiple family residential".



 



   (11)   A dwelling unit in a small lot subdivision shall not be
required to comply with Paragraphs (a), (b), and (f) of Section 12.21 A.17.
of this Code.



 



   (12)   Fences and walls within the yard setback areas adjacent to a
public right-of-way, except alleys, and along the perimeter of the proposed
subdivision shall be no more than three and one-half feet in height in
accordance with Section 12.22 C.20. of this Code.  Fences and walls within
the yard setback areas along the perimeter, not adjacent to the public
right-of-way, of the proposed subdivision shall be no more than six feet in
height in accordance with Section 12.22 C.20. of this Code.



 



   (13)   Lots created within a small lot subdivision are exempt from
the "frontage" requirement as defined in the definition of "Lot" pursuant to
Section 12.03.



 



   (b)   Small Lot Subdivisions of Existing Dwelling Units.  The
purpose of this Subsection is to further facilitate fee-simple home ownership
opportunities through the preservation of existing housing within the City.



 



   Existing Group Dwellings, Bungalow Courts, and detached single, duplex,
and triplex dwelling structures maintained under a single ownership with an
original building permit issued more than 45 years prior to the date of
submittal of the application for subdivision, or where information submitted
with the subdivision application indicates that the building(s) is/are more
than 45 years old based on the date the application is submitted may be
subdivided into small lots and shall comply with Subparagraphs (1), (2) (4),
and (9) through (13) of Paragraph (a) of this Subdivision.  All existing
structures shall be legally constructed with an issued building permit or
Certificate of Occupancy.



 



   (1)   Notwithstanding any provisions of this Code relating to
minimum lot area to the contrary, in the RD, R3, R4, R5, RAS and the P and C
zones, parcels of land may be subdivided into lots which may contain one, two
or three dwelling units, provided that the density of the subdivision
complies with the minimum lot area per dwelling unit requirement established
for each zone, or in the case of a P zone, the density of the subdivision
shall comply with the minimum lot area per dwelling unit of the least
restrictive abutting commercial or multi-family residential zone(s). 
Bungalow courts and existing structures that are nonconforming as to use,
density, yards, or parking may be subdivided provided that the subdivision
does not further increase the density nor reduce the yards, and that existing
required parking be maintained, respectively.



 



   (2)   A nonconforming building, structure, or improvements may be
maintained or repaired or structurally altered provided it conforms to
Section 12.23 A. of this Code.  However, alterations to existing structures
shall also be in conformance with the "Bungalow Court and Existing Structure"
Small Lot Design Standards adopted by the City Planning Commission.



 



   (3)   All existing dwellings shall provide parking as required on
each dwelling's most recently issued permit.  No additional parking is
required.



 



   (4)   All new dwellings added to the small lot subdivisions of
existing dwelling units shall be subject to subparagraphs (1) through (13) of
Paragraph (a) of this Subdivision, including current setback requirements,
parking, and applicable Small Lot Design Standards.



 



   (c)   Exceptions.  The provisions of this section do not apply to
any of the following projects, which shall comply with the regulations in
effect prior to the effective date of this ordinance, as applicable:



 



   (1)   Any small lot subdivision entitlement application filed and
accepted and deemed complete prior to the effective date of this ordinance as
determined by the Department of City Planning.



 



   (2)   Any project for which the City has approved a small lot
subdivision discretionary land use entitlement as of the effective date of
this ordinance, but that has not yet submitted plans and appropriate fees to
the Department of Building and Safety for plan check, as determined by the
Department of City Planning.



 



 



SEC. 12.22.1.  CITY OF LOS ANGELES SAFER FILMING ORDINANCE.



   (Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 182,607, Eff. 8/6/13.)



 



   (A)   Short Title.  This ordinance shall be known as the City of
Los Angeles Safer Sex in the Adult Film Industry Act.



 



   (B)   Use of Condoms in the Making of Films Involving Exposure to
Blood Borne Pathogens.



 



   (1)   For purposes of this Section, an "Adult Film" is defined as
any film, video, multimedia or other representation made for commercial
purposes of sexual intercourse in which performers actually engage in oral,
vaginal, or anal penetration, including but not limited to, penetration by a
penis, finger, or inanimate object; oral contact with the anus or genitals of
another performer; and/or any other sexual activity that may result in the
transmission of blood and/or any other potentially infectious materials as
defined in California Code of Regulations, Title 8, Section 5193(b).



 



   (2)   For purposes of this Section, "Producer" is defined as any
person or entity that produces, finances, or directs any Adult Film.



 



   (3)   For purposes of this Section, "Filmed" and "Filming" are
defined as the recording of any Adult Film.



 



   (4)   No film permit issued under the authority of the City of Los
Angeles or the Los Angeles Police Department pursuant to Section 12.22 A.13.
of this Code or any other law authorizing the issuance of permits for
commercial filming for the production of any Adult Film shall issue unless
the Producer of such film provides proof of a public health permit obtained
pursuant to Title 11 of Los Angeles County Code, Sections 11.39.005, et al. 



 



   (5)   Any film permit issued under the authority of the City of Los
Angeles or the Los Angeles Police Department pursuant to Section 12.22 A.13.
of this Code or any other law authorizing the issuance of permits for
commercial filming for the production of any film must expressly condition
said permit on compliance with subsection (4) of this section.  Any such
permit shall reference this Section and contain the following language:
"Permitee must abide by all applicable workplace health and safety
regulations, including California Code of Regulations Title 8, Section 5193,
which mandates barrier protection, including condoms, to shield performers
from contact with blood or other potentially infectious material during the
production of films."



 



   (6)   The City may charge, or may direct any other person or entity
contracting with the City to administer the film permitting process to
charge, entertainment industry customers seeking film permits for the
production of adult films a fee sufficient to facilitate compliance with, and
enforcement of, this section.



 



 



SEC. 12.23.  NONCONFORMING BUILDING AND USES.



 



   A building or structure with a nonconforming use and a nonconforming
building or structure may be maintained, repaired or structurally altered and
a nonconforming use may be maintained provided the building or use conformed
to the requirements of the zone and any other land use regulations at the
time it was built or established, except as otherwise provided in this
section.  (Added by Ord. No. 178,599, Eff. 5/26/07.)



 



   A.   Buildings with Nonconforming Area, Height, Encroachment Plane,
Yards or Lot Coverage Regulations.  (Amended by Ord. No. 184,802, Eff.
3/17/17.)



 



   1.   Buildings Nonconforming as to Area or Yard Regulations.  A
building, nonconforming as to area or yard regulations, may be repaired,
altered, or internally remodeled, provided at least 50 percent of the
perimeter length of the existing nonconforming portion of the exterior walls
of the building are retained.  It may be expanded in floor area provided the
expansion conforms to the requirements of this Code, subject to the following
provisions:



 



   (a)   a building, nonconforming only as to yard regulations, may be
added to or enlarged in any manner provided:



 



   (i)   any addition or enlargement that is located in the required
yard that is nonconforming does not encroach into any portion of that
required yard to a greater extent than the existing nonconforming building
encroaches; and



 



   (ii)   in no event shall any addition or enlargement reduce the
width of a side yard or the depth of a front or rear yard to less than 50
percent of that required by the current yard regulations of the zone and
other applicable current land use regulations; and



 



   (iii)   the total of all additions or enlargements, made since the
building became nonconforming as to yard regulations, which encroach into any
required yard, shall not exceed in height or length the height or length of
that portion of the adjoining nonconforming building that extends into the
same required yard.



 



   (iv)   Notwithstanding Sub-subparagraphs (i), (ii) and (iii) of this
Sub-paragraph, a building nonconforming as to the Yard regulations on
properties zoned RA, RE, RS and R1, not including properties in the Coastal
Zone which are not located in a Hillside Area as defined in Section 12.03 of
this Code, shall not be added to or enlarged in any manner unless the
addition or enlargement conforms to all the current regulations of the zone
and other applicable current land use regulations, except as may be approved
or permitted pursuant to a discretionary approval as that term is defined in
Section 16.05 B. of this Code.



 



   (b)   A residential building, nonconforming as to the area
regulations (density), in the OS, A, R, P, PB, C or PF Zones, may be
enlarged, provided that the enlargement does not create any additional
dwelling units or guest rooms.



 



   (c)   Notwithstanding Paragraphs (a) and (b) above and Subdivision
2. of this Subsection, a building, nonconforming as to the Residential Floor
Area regulations on properties zoned RA, RE, RS and R1, not including
properties in the Coastal Zone which are not located in a Hillside Area, as
defined in Section 12.03 of this Code, shall not be added to or enlarged in
any manner unless the addition or enlargement conforms to all the current
regulations of the zone and other applicable current land use regulations,
except as permitted by Section 12.21 C.10.(l) and except as may be approved
or permitted pursuant to a discretionary approval, as that term is defined in
Section 16.05 B. of this Code.  However, alterations, other than additions
or enlargements to existing buildings, may be made provided that at least 50
percent of the perimeter length of the contiguous exterior walls and 50
percent of the roof are retained.



 



   2.   Buildings Nonconforming as to Height or Encroachment Plane.  A
building, nonconforming only as to height or encroachment plane regulations,
may not be added to or enlarged in any manner, unless the additions or
enlargements conform to all the current regulations of the zone and other
applicable current land use regulations, provided that the total aggregate
floor area included in all the separate additions or enlargements shall not
exceed 50 percent of the floor area of the ground floor of the building or
structure.



 



   3.   Buildings Nonconforming as to Lot Coverage.  A building,
nonconforming as to the Lot Coverage regulations on properties zoned RA, RE,
RS, and R1, shall not be added to or enlarged in any manner unless the
addition or enlargement conforms to all the current regulations of the zone
and other applicable current land use regulations, except as may be approved
or permitted pursuant to a discretionary approval, as that term is defined in
Section 16.05 B. of this Code.  However, alterations, other than additions
or enlargements to existing buildings, may be made provided that at least 50
percent of the perimeter length of the contiguous exterior walls and 50
percent of the roof are retained.



 



   4.   Moving Nonconforming Buildings.  A nonconforming building or
structure may not be moved, in whole or in part, to any other location on the
lot unless every portion of the building or structure that is moved is made
to conform to all the current regulations of the zone and other applicable
current land use regulations, except as otherwise permitted by Section 12.22
C.13. of this Code.



 



   5.   Restoration of Damaged Non-conforming Buildings.



 



   (a)   A nonconforming building or structure, which is damaged or
partially destroyed by any fire, flood, wind, earthquake or other calamity or
the public enemy, may be restored and the occupancy or use of the building,
structure or part of the building or structure, which existed at the time of
the damage or destruction, may be continued or resumed, provided that the
total cost of restoration does not exceed 75 percent of the replacement value
of the building or structure at the time of the damage or destruction.  A
permit for restoration shall be obtained within a period of two years from
the date of the damage or destruction.  Except as set forth in Paragraph (b)
below, if the damage or destruction exceeds 75 percent of the replacement
value of the nonconforming building or structure at the time of the damage or
destruction, no repairs or restoration shall be made unless every portion of
the building or structure is made to conform to all regulations for new
buildings in the zone in which it is located, and other applicable current
land use regulations.



 



   (b)   If the damage or destruction of a nonconforming single-family
or two-family dwelling, multiple dwelling or apartment house in the OS, A, R,
P, PB, C, M or PF Zones exceeds 75 percent of its replacement value at the
time of the damage or destruction, the building or structure may be
reconstructed provided:



 



   (i)   that each side yard is no less than one-half the required side
yard for new buildings in the zone in which it is located, or in other
applicable current land use regulations, but in no event less than three
feet; and



 



   (ii)   that the front and rear yards are at least one-half the
required front and rear yards for new buildings in the zone in which it is
located, or in other applicable current land use regulations; and



 



   (iii)   that neither the footing, nor the building or structure
projects into any area planned for widening or extension of existing or
future streets as determined by the Advisory Agency upon the recommendation
of the City Engineer; and



 



   (iv)   that the height shall not exceed the allowable height for new
buildings or structures in the zone in which it is located, or in other
applicable current land use regulations; and



 



   (v)   that a building permit for the reconstruction be obtained
within two years of the damage or destruction from fire, flood, wind,
earthquake, or other calamity or the public enemy.



 



   6.   Replacement of Earthquake Hazardous Buildings. 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this article to the contrary, a
building nonconforming as to height, number of stories, lot area, loading
space or parking, which is demolished as a result of enforcement of the
Earthquake Hazard Reduction Ordinance (Article 1, Chapter IX of this Code),
may be reconstructed with the same nonconforming height, number of stories,
lot area, loading space or parking as the original building, provided,
however, that reconstruction shall be commenced within two years of obtaining
a permit for demolition and completed within two years of obtaining a permit
for reconstruction.  Provided further, that neither the footing, nor any
portion of the replacement building may encroach into any area planned for
widening or extension of existing or future streets as determined by the
Advisory Agency upon the recommendation of the City Engineer.



 



   Additionally, a building nonconforming as to use or yards, which is
demolished as a result of enforcement of the Earthquake Hazard Reduction
Ordinance, may be reconstructed with the same nonconforming use or yards
provided that the approval of a Zoning Administrator is obtained pursuant to
Section 12.24 X.16. of this Code.



 



   B.   Nonconforming Use of Buildings.  (Amended by Ord. No. 178,599,
Eff. 5/26/07.)



 



   1.   Discontinuance of Manufacturing Use in A and R Zones.  In the
A and R Zones, any nonconforming use of a building first permitted in the MR1
or less restrictive zone shall be discontinued within five years from June 1,
1946, or five years from the date the use becomes nonconforming, whichever
date is later.



 



   2.   Discontinuance of Commercial Use in A and R Zones.  In the A
and R Zones, any nonconforming commercial use of a building shall be
discontinued within five years from June 1, 1946, or five years from the date
the use becomes nonconforming, whichever date is later.  However, the Zoning
Administrator may permit its continuation pursuant to the procedures set
forth in Section 12.24 X.27. of this Code.



 



   3.   Authority of Department of Building and Safety to Issue Orders
to Comply.  The Department of Building and Safety shall have the authority
to issue an order to comply to an owner of any building or structure who is
in violation of this subsection and advise the owner of the required
discontinuance of the nonconforming use of the building or structure. 
Included in any order shall be a provision advising the owner of the right to
apply to the Department of City Planning within 90 days for permission to
continue the nonconforming use of the building or structure as provided in
this subsection, but the failure to include that provision shall not nullify
the order or provide a basis for the continued use of the building or
structure.  The Department of Building and Safety shall record a notice of
any order issued pursuant to this subsection with the Office of the Los
Angeles County Recorder, but the failure to so record shall not nullify the
order or provide a basis for the continued use of the building or structure
by any owner, purchaser or lessee who was not aware of the order.



 



   4.   Nonconforming Use in Manufacturing Zones.  In the M Zones:



 



   (a)   A building, nonconforming as to use, which does not contain
any dwelling units or guest rooms, shall not be redesigned or rearranged to
contain dwelling units or guest rooms;



 



   (b)   A building, nonconforming as to use, which contains dwelling
units or guest rooms shall not be redesigned or rearranged to be used for any
other purpose permitted in an R Zone;



 



   (c)   A building, nonconforming as to use, which contains dwelling
units or guest rooms, shall not be redesigned or rearranged so as to increase
the number of dwelling units or guest rooms in the building;



 



   (d)   Residential uses in the M3 Zone, except for caretakers
quarters, shall not be permitted to remain beyond five years from the date
the use became nonconforming.



 



   5.   Expansion of Nonconforming Use.  Except as otherwise provided
in this subsection, a nonconforming use shall not be expanded into any other
portion of the building.



 



   6.   Enlargement of Residential Portion of Buildings Nonconforming
as to Use. The residential portion of a building, nonconforming as to use in
the OS, A, R, P, PB, C, or PF Zones, may be enlarged, provided that the 
enlargement does not create an additional dwelling unit or guest room.



 



   7.   Change of Use.



 



   (a)   Any change of use of a building or a portion of a building
must conform to the current regulations of the zone and other applicable
current land use regulations.



 



   (b)   However, in the R, C, or M Zones, a nonconforming use may be
changed to any use that is permitted in a more restrictive zone than the
current zone.  The sequence of these zones, the first being the most
restrictive and the last being the least restrictive, is as follows:  OS,
A1, A2, RA, RE, RS, R1, RU, RZ, RW1, R2, RD, RMP, RW2, R3, RAS3, R4, RAS4,
R5, CR, C1, C1.5, C4, C2, C5, CM, MR1, M1, MR2, M2, M3 and PF.  When the use
of a nonconforming building is changed to a use that is permitted in a more
restrictive zone, the nonconforming building shall not be occupied by a use
that is permitted only in a less restrictive zone.



 



   8.   Parking.



 



   (a)   Determination of Required Parking.  All currently provided
parking spaces shall be considered as the required parking for an existing
nonconforming use if the parking spaces are less than or equal to the parking
required by current regulations.



 



   (b)   Change of Use or Other Alterations.  For the purpose of
calculating the parking requirements for a change of use or other
alterations, which would require additional parking spaces per this Code,
including, but not limited to, additional dwelling units, seating capacity,
beds for institutions or guest rooms, existing parking must be maintained and
additional parking spaces shall be provided equal to the difference between
the number of required parking spaces for the existing use based on current
parking regulations set forth in this Code and not on the provisions of
Paragraph (a) above, and the number of required parking spaces for the new
use or the new capacity created by the alterations, also based on current
parking regulations.



 



   (c)   Additions to Buildings or Structures.  The parking
requirement for an addition or enlargement to a building or structure that
results in an increase in floor area shall be as set forth in the current
provisions of this Code.  No additional parking spaces shall be required for
the original portion of the building, as determined by Paragraphs (a) and (b)
of this subdivision, only for the additional portion.



 



   9.   Discontinuance of Use.  A building or structure or portion or
a building or structure, which contains a nonconforming use which is
discontinued for a continuous period of one year, shall only be occupied by a
use that conforms to the current use regulations of the zone and other
applicable current land use regulations.



 



   C.   Nonconforming Use Of Land



 



   1.   Discontinuation of Nonconforming Use of Land.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 178,599, Eff. 5/26/07.)



 



   (a)   In the A, R or C Zones, a nonconforming use of land shall be
discontinued within five years from June 1, 1946, or from the date the use
becomes nonconforming, whichever date is later, in each of the following
cases:



 



   (i)   where no buildings are utilized in connection with the use;



 



   (ii)   where the only buildings utilized are accessory or incidental
to the use;



 



   (iii)   where the use is maintained in connection with a conforming
building.



 



   (b)   A nonconforming use of land, which is accessory or incidental
to the nonconforming use of a building, shall be discontinued on the same
date the nonconforming use of the building is discontinued.



 



   2.   Continuation of Nonconforming Use of Land.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 178,599, Eff. 5/26/07.)  Except as provided in Subdivision 1. above, the
nonconforming use of land may be continued, subject to the following
limitations:



 



   (a)   that the use is not expanded or extended in any way either on
the same or adjoining land beyond the limits of what was originally
permitted; and



 



   (b)   that the use is not changed, except to a use that conforms to
the current use regulations of the zone and other applicable current land use
regulations; and



 



   (c)   in the MR or M1 Zone, the use shall be completely enclosed
within a building or within an area enclosed on all sides with a solid wall
or solid fence of a height sufficient to screen the use from public view, but
in no event less than six feet in height, within one year from the date the
use becomes nonconforming; and



 



   (d)   if the use is discontinued for a continuous period of one
year, it shall not be reestablished.



 



   3.   Continuation of Signs.  Any existing nonconforming sign, as
defined in Section 91.6203 of this Code, may be continued, provided that no
structural, electrical or mechanical alterations are made to the sign except
as permitted in Section 91.6206 of this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 178,599,
Eff. 5/26/07.)



 



   4.   Oil Wells.  (Amended by Ord. No. 160,874, Eff. 4/ 6/86.)



 



   (a)   No well for the production of oil, gas or other hydrocarbon
substances, which is a nonconforming use, shall be re-drilled or deepened.



 



   (b)   All such wells, including any incidental storage tanks and
drilling or production equipment, shall be completely removed within 20 years
from June 1, 1946, or within 20 years from date such use became
nonconforming, if said date was subsequent to June 1, 1946; provided,
however, a Zoning Administrator may, upon individual application, allow such
wells to continue to operate after said removal date, if he determines that
such continued operation would be reasonably compatible with the surrounding
area and in connection therewith may impose such conditions, including time
limitations, as he deems necessary to achieve such compatibility.



 



   (c)   Notwithstanding the above, in the Los Angeles City Oil Field
such wells may continue operation provided an application is filed with the
Office of Zoning Administration on or before November 1, 1986 and is
subsequently approved. Any well operator may reapply for Zoning Administrator
approval after November 1, 1986 provided the prior approval has not expired.



 



   5.   Commercial Animal Keeping – The nonconforming keeping,
grazing, breeding, raising or training of livestock, poultry, fowl, rabbits,
chinchillas, fish, frogs or similar animals for commercial purposes in the RA
and R Zones, shall be completely abandoned on or before July 1, 1976 or
within 15 years from the date such use became nonconforming. (Added by Ord.
No. 122,543, Eff. 9/2/72.)



 



   6.   Automobile Dismantling Yards, Junk Yards, and Related Uses. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)



 



   (a)   Any of the uses to which the provisions of Section 12.19 A.4.
of this article are applicable, lawfully existing in the M2 Zone on November
29, 1968, shall be completely removed from the zone within two years unless
the use has been made to comply with the limitations applicable to the use. 
However, upon a showing that substantial compliance with the limitations
applicable to a particular use has been effected, the Director of Planning
may grant an extension of time to complete the work necessary to effect full
compliance.  No extension so granted shall exceed one year in duration nor
shall more than one extension be granted with respect to any individual use.



 



   (b)   Any of the uses to which the provisions of Section 12.20 A.5.
are applicable, lawfully existing in the M3 Zone on November 29, 1968, shall
be completely removed from the zone within two years unless the use has been
made to conform to the limitations applicable to the use.  However, upon a
showing that substantial compliance with the limitations applicable to a
particular use has been effected, the Zoning Administrator may grant an
extension of time to complete the work necessary to effect full compliance. 
The procedure for this extension shall be as set forth in Section 12.24 with
the Zoning Administrator as the initial decision maker and the Area Planning
Commission as the appellate body.  No extension so granted shall exceed one
year in duration nor shall more than one extension be granted with respect to
any individual use.



 



   (c)   The nonconforming use of land for the open storage of
materials and equipment, including used materials and equipment, may be
continued, but shall be subject to the following limitation: it shall be made
to conform to the provisions of this Code on the construction of walls or
fences for the open storage of such used materials and equipment within one
year from the date the use became nonconforming.  The phrase “used
materials and equipment” includes, but is not limited to, vehicles, boats,
or airplanes which are inoperable, wrecked, damaged or unlicensed, i.e., not
currently licensed by the Department of Motor Vehicles.



 



   7.   Discontinuance of Nonconforming Hostels and Transient Occupancy
Residential Structures.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)



 



   (a)   Any hostel or transient occupancy residential structure to
which the provisions of Sections 12.12.2A1(d), 12.13A1.5, and 12.13.5A11, of
this article are applicable, existing in or within 500 feet of an A or R zone
on May 8, 1992, shall be discontinued within 180 days unless the use has been
made to comply with the limitations applicable to that use.  However, upon a
showing that substantial compliance with the limitations applicable to a
particular use has been effected, the Zoning Administrator may grant an
extension of time to complete the work necessary to effect full compliance. 
No extension so granted shall exceed 90 days in duration nor shall more than
one extension be granted with respect to any individual use.  The procedure
for this extension shall be as set forth in Section 12.24 with the Zoning
Administrator as the initial decision maker and the Area Planning Commission
as the appellate body.



 



   D.   Nonconforming Due To Changes – Whenever a building or
structure or a use of a building, structure or land becomes nonconforming
because of a change of zone or change in the regulations, and a period of
time is specified in this section for the removal of such non conforming
building, structure or use, said period of time shall be computed from the
effective date of such change.



 



   This section merely provides for an exception to other sections of the
LAMC; it is not to be regarded as a part of the definition of the offense
created by other sections of the code and need not be negatived by proof or
pleading.



   People v. Webb, CR A 1762.



 



   The existence of nonconforming uses does not necessarily invalidate a
zoning ordinance, and no vested right to violate an ordinance may be acquired
by continued violations.



   Lockard v. The City of Los Angeles, 33 Cal. 2d 453.



   Acker v. Baldwin, 18 Cal. 2d 341.



 



   Uses for commercial purposes in district zoned for residential purposes
if subsequent to enactment of zoning ordinance, confers no vested right for
continuance thereof.



   Burke v. City of Los Angeles, 68 Cal. App. 2d 189.



 



   A nonconforming use cannot be enlarged.



   County of San Diego v. McClurken, 37 Cal. 2d 683.



 



   A nonconforming use is subject to the full exercise of the police power
and may, like all other activities, be subjected to all reasonable
regulations.



   People v. Scheib, CR A 2457.



 



   Under a zoning ordinance authorizing applications to an administrative
body for permission to put land to a nonconforming use, it is not a denial of
an owner’s constitutional right to equal protection of the laws to
discriminate against him by granting such application to some owners and
refusing a grant to him in the same district.



   Otis v. City of Los Angeles, 52 Cal. App. 2d 605.



 



   E.   Use Of Nonconforming Lot. A Nonconforming lot may be occupied
by any use permitted in the zone in which it is located except for those uses
which require a width, area or other lot dimension other than the minimum
specified in the area requirements of said zone. However, no more than two
dwelling units shall be permitted on a lot with an area less than 4,000
square feet, except on lots located in an RW Zone. (Amended by Ord. No.
138,095, Eff. 4/19/69.)



 



   F.   Equine Keeping – Nonconforming Lot In “RA” Zone. 
Equines may be kept and a stable may be erected or maintained on any lot in
an “RA” Zone, provided said lot had the area required for the keeping of
equines at the time the lot was established. (Amended by Ord. No. 157,144,
Eff. 11/22/82.)



 



   G.   Equine - Nonconforming Uses - Non-“K” Equinekeeping Lots. 
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Code to the contrary, equine
uses of the land on non-“K” District lots shall be allowed to be
continued if, after the legal establishment of the equine use, a neighbor is
granted a building permit to construct a dwelling unit within the 75-foot
required distance between an equine use and the neighbor’s dwelling unit. 
If, in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.24X5, the Zoning
Administrator grants permission for a neighbor’s dwelling to be constructed
closer than 35 feet from a legally existing equine enclosure, the equine
enclosure may be considered to be nonconforming if it is relocated not closer
than 35 feet from the habitable rooms attached to any dwelling.  The
nonconforming equine use shall be subject to the following limitations: 
(Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)



 



   1.   The equine enclosure shall not be closer than 35 feet to the
habitable rooms of any dwelling unit.



 



   2.   The subject lot has been designated by an Equine License to
stable at least one licensed equine during the 12 months prior to the
issuance of the building permit for the neighbor’s dwelling unit.



 



   3.   The equine enclosure shall not be expanded, extended, or
relocated in such a manner as to reduce the nonconforming distance between
the enclosure and the habitable rooms of the neighbor’s dwelling unit.



 



   4.   The nonconforming equine use shall be discontinued if, during a
successive 3–year period, no equine is licensed by the Department of Animal
Services to be stabled on the subject lot.  (“Department of Animal
Regulation” renamed “Department of Animal Services” by Ord. No.
174,735, Eff. 9/13/02.)



 



   H.   (Repealed by Ord. No. 171,740, Eff. 10/27/97.)



 



   I.   Equine Nonconforming Uses Adjacent to Residential Buildings. 
Notwithstanding any provisions of this Code to the contrary, if an equine use
not in a “K” District was legally established prior to November 22, 1982,
that use shall be allowed to continue, even though the City issued a building
permit between November 22, 1982 and July 1, 1986, to construct a residential
building on an adjacent lot within the 35-foot required distance between an
equine use and the habitable rooms of a residential building on the adjacent
lot.  This provision shall not apply to building permits authorized by the
Zoning Administrator pursuant to Section 12.24X5.  This nonconforming equine
use shall be subject to the following limitations:  (Amended by Ord. No.
173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)



 



   1.   The subject lot has been designated by an Equine License to
stable at least one licensed equine during the 12 months prior to the
issuance of the building permit for the residential building on an adjacent
lot.



 



   2.   The equine enclosure shall not be expanded, extended, or
relocated in such a manner as to reduce the nonconforming distance between
the enclosure and the habitable rooms of the residential building on an
adjacent lot.



 



   3.   The nonconforming equine use shall be discontinued if, during a
successive 3-year period, no equine is licensed by the Department of Animal
Services to be stabled on the subject lot.  (“Department of Animal
Regulation” renamed “Department of Animal Services” by Ord. No.
174,735, Eff. 9/13/02.)



 



   Nothing in this subsection relieves any person from the obligation to
comply with the requirements of any county or state law.  (Para. Amended by
Ord. No. 173,754, Eff. 3/5/01.)



 



 



SEC. 12.24.  CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS AND OTHER SIMILAR QUASI-JUDICIAL
APPROVALS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)



 



   A.   Applicability.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff.
10/10/00.)  This section shall apply to the conditional use approvals listed
in Subsections U, V and W and to the other similar quasi-judicial approvals
listed in Subsection X.  These procedures apply only to uses in zones when
not permitted by right.



 



   B.   Application for Permit.  (Amended by Ord. No. 183,581, Eff.
7/4/15.)  To apply for a permit, an applicant shall file an application with
the Department of City Planning on a form provided by the Department, and
shall include all information required by the instructions on the application
and the guidelines adopted by the Director of Planning.  Any filing fees
required under Section 19.01 E. shall be included with the application.  The
Director of Planning shall adopt guidelines which shall be used to determine
when an application is deemed complete.



 



   1.   Pre-Application Consultation.  Prior to filing an application
pursuant to Sections 12.24 M., 12.24 W. or 12.24 X. of this Code, an
applicant must consult with the Department for a preliminary review of his or
her project in order to receive an estimate of the fees and approvals
required for a given project.  The applicant shall pay a pre-application fee
at the time of the initial meeting with the Department per Section 19.01. 
The applicant shall then file an application with the Department of City
Planning as required by Subsection B. above.



 



   C.   Initial Decision.  Except as otherwise provided in Charter
Section 564 and Section 12.36 of this Code, the initial decision on an
application shall be made by the Zoning Administrator, the Area Planning
Commission or the City Planning Commission, as prescribed in Subsections U,
V, W and X.



 



   For purposes of this section, the initial decision shall mean approval
in whole or in part with or without conditions, or denial of the application.



 



   D.   Public Hearing and Notice.  Upon receipt of a complete
application, the initial decision-maker shall set the matter for public
hearing at which evidence shall be taken and may conduct the hearing itself
or may designate a hearing officer to conduct the hearing.



 



   The Department shall give notice in all of the following manners:



 



   1.   Publication.  By at least one publication in a newspaper of
general circulation in the City, designated for that purpose by the City
Clerk, no less than 24 days prior to the date of hearing; and



 



   2.   Written Notice.



 



   (a)   By mailing a written notice no less than 24 days prior to the
date of the hearing to the applicant, the owner or owners of the property
involved, and to the owners of all property within and outside of the City
that is within 500 feet of the exterior boundaries of the property involved,
using for the purpose of notification, the last known name and address of
owners as shown on the records of the City Engineer or the records of the
County Assessor.  Where all property within the 500-foot radius is under the
same ownership as the property involved in the application, the owners of all
property that adjoins that ownership, or is separated from it only by a
street, alley, public right-of-way or other easement, shall also be notified
as set forth above; and  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,595, Eff. 4/10/11.)



 



   (b)   By mailing a written notice no less than 24 days prior to the
date of the hearing to residential, commercial and industrial occupants of
all property within 500 feet of the exterior boundaries of the property
involved.  This requirement can be met by mailing the notice to
“occupant”; and



 



   (c)   If notice pursuant to Paragraphs (a) and (b) above will not
result in notice being given to at least 20 different owners of at least 20
different lots other than the subject property, then the 500-foot radius for
notification shall be increased in increments of 50 feet until the required
number of persons and lots are encompassed within the expanded area. 
Notification shall then be given to all property owners and occupants within
the expanded area.



 



   3.   Site Posting.  By the applicant posting notice of the public
hearing in a conspicuous place on the property involved at least ten days
prior to the date of the public hearing.  If a hearing examiner is
designated to conduct the public hearing, then the applicant, in addition to
posting notice of the public hearing, shall also post notice of the initial
meeting of the decision-making body on the matter.  This notice shall be
posted in a conspicuous place on the property involved at least ten days
prior to the date of the meeting.  The Director of Planning may adopt
guidelines consistent with this section for the posting of notices if the
Director determines that those guidelines are necessary and appropriate.



 



   E.   Findings for Approval.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,095, Eff.
5/7/12.)  A decision-maker shall not grant a conditional use or other
approval specified in Subsections U., V., W., or X. of this Section without
finding:



 



   1.   that the project will enhance the built environment in the
surrounding neighborhood or will perform a function or provide a service that
is essential or beneficial to the community, city, or region;



 



   2.   that the project's location, size, height, operations and other
significant features will be compatible with and will not adversely affect or
further degrade adjacent properties, the surrounding neighborhood, or the
public health, welfare, and safety; and



 



   3.   that the project substantially conforms with the purpose,
intent and provisions of the General Plan, the applicable community plan, and
any applicable specific plan.



 



   The decision-maker shall also make any additional findings required by
Subsections U., V., W. and X., and shall determine that the project satisfies
all applicable requirements in those subsections.



 



   F.   Conditions of Approval.  In approving a project, the
decision-maker may impose conditions related to the interests addressed in
the findings set forth in Subsection E.  The decision may state that the
height and area regulations required by other provisions of this Chapter
shall not apply to the conditional use approved.  If the Density Bonus is
increased beyond the maximum allowed as defined in LAMC 12.22 A.25., the
development project must also contain the requisite number of Restricted
Affordable Units as set forth in Section 12.24 U.26.(a)(1) through (5) of the
Los Angeles Municipal Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 185,373, Eff. 2/26/18.)



 



   The Department shall have the authority to conduct inspections to
verify compliance with any and all conditions imposed on any conditional use
or other similar quasi-judicial approval granted pursuant to this section. 
Clearance, monitoring and inspection fees shall be paid by the business
operator or property owner to the Department in accordance with the fee
schedule in Section 19.01 of this Code.



 



   If, upon inspection, the Department finds that the applicant has failed
to comply with conditions of any conditional use or other similar
quasi-judicial approval granted pursuant to this section, the Department
shall give notice to the business operator or property owner to correct the
specific deficiencies and the time in which to complete the correction. 
Evidence of compliance shall be submitted to the Department within the
specified correction period.  If the deficiencies are not corrected within
the time prescribed by the Department, revocation proceedings pursuant to
Subsection Z. of this section may commence.



 



   G.   Time to Act.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.) 
The initial decision shall be made within 75 days of the date the application
is deemed complete, or within an extended period as mutually agreed upon in
writing by the applicant and the decision-maker.  An initial decision shall
not be considered made until written findings are adopted in accordance with
Subsection E.  Upon making its decision, the initial decision-maker shall
transmit a copy of the written findings and decision to the applicant, to all
owners of properties abutting, across the street or alley from, or having a
common corner with the subject property and to all persons who have filed a
written request for the notice with the Department of City Planning.



 



   Notwithstanding any provisions of this section to the contrary, the
initial decision-maker shall make its decision on any application for a
hazardous waste storage, treatment, or disposal facility, as governed by
Subdivisions 10 and 11 of Subsection U of this section, pursuant to the time
limits as set forth in Article 8.7 of the California Health and Safety Code.



 



   H.   Failure to Act - Transfer of Jurisdiction.



 



   1.   If the initial decision-maker fails to act on an application
within 75 days from the date of filing a complete application, or within a
mutually agreed upon extension of time, the applicant may file a request for
a transfer of jurisdiction to the designated appellate body for decision. 
The designated appellate body is the body to whom the matter would normally
be appealable, pursuant to Subsections U, V, W and X.  The Director of
Planning shall prescribe the form and manner of filing requests for transfers
of jurisdiction.



 



   2.   When the designated appellate body receives the applicant’s
request for a transfer of jurisdiction, the initial decision-maker shall lose
jurisdiction.  However, the body to whom the matter is transferred may
remand the matter to the initial decision-maker who shall regain jurisdiction
for the time and purpose specified in the remand action.  In addition, upon
receipt of a written request by the applicant for withdrawal of the transfer
of jurisdiction prior to the matter being heard by the appellate body, the
matter shall be remanded to the initial decision-maker.



 



   3.   If the matter is not remanded, the decision-maker to whom the
matter has been transferred shall consider the application following the same
procedures and subject to the same limitations as are applicable to the
initial decision-maker, except that the body to which the matter has been
transferred shall act within 45 days of the transfer of jurisdiction.  The
Department of City Planning, including the Office of Zoning Administration,
shall make investigations and furnish any reports requested by the body to
which the matter has been transferred.



 



   I.   Appeals.



 



   1.   Effective Date of Initial Decision.  An initial decision
becomes final and effective upon the close of the 15-day appeal period if not
appealed, or as provided in this subsection if appealed.



 



   2.   Filing of an Appeal.  An applicant or any other person
aggrieved by the initial decision of the Zoning Administrator may appeal the
decision to the Area Planning Commission.  An applicant or any other person
aggrieved by the initial decision of the Area Planning Commission or the City
Planning Commission may appeal the decision to the City Council.  The appeal
shall be filed within 15 days of the date of mailing of the initial decision
on forms provided by the Department.  The appeal shall set forth
specifically the points at issue, the reasons for the appeal, and the basis
upon which the appellant claims there was an error or abuse of discretion by
the initial decision-maker.  Any appeal not filed within the 15-day period
shall not be considered by the appellate body.  The filing of an appeal
stays proceedings in the matter until the appellate body has made a
decision.  Once an appeal is filed, the initial decision-maker shall
transmit the appeal and the file to the appellate body, together with any
report if one was prepared by staff responding to the allegations made in the
appeal.



 



   3.   Appellate Decision - Public Hearing and Notice.  Before acting
on any appeal, the appellate body shall set the matter for hearing, giving
the same notice as provided for the original hearing.  When considering an
appeal from the decision of an initial decision-maker, the appellate body
shall make its decision, based on the record, as to whether the initial
decision-maker erred or abused his or her discretion.



 



   4.   Time for Appellate Decision.  The appellate body shall act
within 75 days after the expiration of the appeal period or within any
additional period mutually agreed upon by the applicant and the appellate
body.  The failure of the appellate body to adopt a resolution within this
time period shall be deemed a denial of the appeal.



 



   5.   Appellate Decision.  The appellate body may, by resolution,
reverse or modify, in whole or in part, any decision of the initial
decision-maker.  If the City Council is the appellate body, the resolution
to reverse or modify, in whole or in part, shall only be adopted by at least
a two-thirds vote of the whole Council.  For all appellate bodies, any
resolution to approve must contain the same findings required to be made by
the initial decision-maker, supported by facts in the record.



 



   6.   Procedures and Effective Date of Appellate Decision.



 



   (a)   When a conditional use decision is appealed to the City
Council and the Council either approves the conditional use or denies an
appeal from an earlier approval, the matter together with the files and
reports shall forthwith be transmitted to the Mayor.  The Mayor may approve
or disapprove the conditional use within ten days of its presentation to him
or her.  This action shall be based solely upon the administrative record
and whether the Mayor believes the conditional use conforms with the
requirements for approval set forth in this section.  If the Mayor
disapproves the conditional use, he or she shall return the matter to the
City Clerk for presentation to the Council, together with the objections in
writing.  The Council within 60 days after the matter has been returned to
it may override the disapproval:



 



   (i)   by a two-thirds vote if the Council had not modified the
conditional use as approved by the initial decision-maker, or if the Council
had made the initial approval of the conditional use by reason of the failure
of the initial decision-maker to act; or



 



   (ii)   by a three-fourths vote if the Council had modified and
approved the conditional use or reversed the action of the initial
decision-maker and had approved the conditional use.



 



   If the Council fails to override the Mayor’s disapproval within the
60 days, the Mayor’s disapproval shall constitute a denial of the
conditional use.  If the Mayor fails to return the matter to the City Clerk
within ten days of its presentation to him or her, the approval of the
conditional use shall become final.



 



   (b)   When a conditional use decision of the Zoning Administrator is
appealed to an Area Planning Commission, the appellate decision of the Area
Planning Commission shall be final and effective as provided in Charter
Section 245.



 



   J.   (Deleted by Ord. No. 182,106, Eff. 5/20/12.)



 



   K.   Limitation upon Approval of Planned Residential Developments. 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the approval of any
planned residential development as a conditional use shall not be complete or
effective until the approval and the conditions imposed have been approved by
ordinance.



 



   L.   Existing Uses.  Any lot or portion of a lot which is being
lawfully used for any of the purposes enumerated in this section at the time
the property is first classified in a zone in which the use is permitted only
by conditional use or at the time the use in that zone first becomes subject
to the requirements of this section, shall be deemed to be approved for the
conditional use and may be continued on the lot. Further, the conditions
included in any special district ordinance, exception or variance which
authorized the use shall also continue in effect.



 



   Any lot or portion of a lot in the C2, C3, C4, CM or M1 Zones which was
being used on June 1, 1951, for the temporary storage of abandoned,
dismantled, partially dismantled, obsolete or wrecked automobiles, but not
for the dismantling or wrecking of automobiles nor for the storage or sale of
used parts, may continue to be so used.



 



   Regulations governing yards, accessory buildings, parking, access, or
any other internal features of mobilehome parks shall conform to the
provisions of Title 25 of the California Administrative Code or any
amendments.  If yards, accessory buildings, parking, access, or any other
internal features of mobilehome parks are not regulated by Title 25, they
shall conform to all applicable provisions of this Code or any other
conditions imposed by the City.



 



   Any CM uses lawfully existing prior to March 22, 1981, in any portion
of any building in the C5 Zone shall not be extended beyond that portion of
the building except as provided by Section 12.24W of this Code.



 



   M.   Development of Uses.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,992, Eff.
7/6/01.)



 



   1.   Development of Site.  On any lot or portion of a lot on which
a deemed- approved conditional use is permitted pursuant to the provisions of
this section, new buildings or structures may be erected, enlargements may be
made to existing buildings, and existing uses may be extended on an approved
site, as permitted in Subsection L of this section, provided that plans are
submitted to and approved by the Zoning Administrator, the Area Planning
Commission, or the City Planning Commission, whichever has jurisdiction at
the time. The Zoning Administrator, the Area Planning Commission, or the City
Planning Commission may deny the plans if the Zoning Administrator or the
Commission finds that the use does not conform to the purpose and intent of
the findings required for a conditional use under this section, and may
specify the conditions under which the plans may be approved.



 



   The Area Planning Commission and the City Planning Commission may
delegate to the Director of Planning the authority to approve or disapprove,
on their behalf, plans for the development of an approved or deemed-approved
conditional use site.  The Area Planning Commission and the City Planning
Commission shall establish reasonable guidelines and policies to be followed
in the exercise of the delegated authority.



 



   EXCEPTIONS:



 



   A plan approval shall not be required in the following instances:



 



   (a)   For buildings within mobilehome parks located in the M2 Zone,
which existed in that zone on September 3, 1961, provided that the entire
approval site is retained for mobilehome park use and there is no increase in
the number of mobilehome sites.



 



   (b)   For temporary structures erected on the site of a place of
worship in an A Zone, if:



 



   (1)   the structures are erected and maintained not more than five
days in any one year;



 



   (2)   all structures, including temporary facilities, are located at
least 40 feet from all exterior lot lines;



 



   (3)   the required permits are obtained from the Fire Department,
and all structures are removed from the premises the next day following the
closing of the event;



 



   (4)   no public address system in connection with the event is
installed on the property unless it is modulated so as not to be disturbing
to occupants of nearby dwelling units; and



 



   (5)   any lights used to illuminate the area are arranged to reflect
the light away from any adjacent residentially used premises.



 



   2.   Appeal.  An applicant submitting development plans or any
other person aggrieved by the decision of the Zoning Administrator made
relative to the approval or disapproval of a development plan may appeal the
decision to the Area Planning Commission pursuant to this section and Section
19.00.  An applicant submitting development plans or any other person
aggrieved by the decision of the Area Planning Commission or the City
Planning Commission made relative to the approval or disapproval of a
development plan may appeal the decision to the City Council pursuant to this
section and Section 19.00.



 



   N.   Reduction of Site.  So long as the conditional use is
continued, the entire approved site shall be retained for the conditional
use, and no portion shall be severed from the site or utilized for other
purposes unless the plans for the reduced site are first submitted to and
approved by the initial decision-maker.



 



   The decision of an initial decision-maker on a proposed reduction of
the area of an approved site shall be subject to the same appeal procedures
as is provided for an application to establish the conditional use.



 



   O.   Findings and Conditions of Approval.  In approving any
conditional use plans, the initial decision-maker must find that the use
conforms to the purpose and intent of the findings required for a conditional
use under this section and may impose conditions on the same basis as
provided for in this section for the establishment of new conditional uses. 
The initial decision-maker shall adopt written findings of fact supporting
the decision based upon evidence in the record, including any investigations.



 



   P.   Change of Use.  No conditional use may be changed to a
different type of conditional use unless the new use is authorized in
accordance with the procedure prescribed in this section for the
establishment of a conditional use.



 



   Q.   Discontinuance of Use.  If a conditional use is abandoned, or
is discontinued for a continuous period of one year, it may not be
re-established unless authorized in accordance with the procedure prescribed
in this section for the establishment of a conditional use.



 



   R.   Planned Residential Developments or Housing Projects Approved
as Conditional Uses.  No provision of Section 13.04 of this Code shall be
construed as limiting or modifying the provisions of any conditional use
approval, or any other right already existing, for a housing project or
planned residential development granted prior to the effective date of that
section.  The provisions of this section shall continue to apply to those
developments, and the Commission is authorized to perform all required
administrative acts.  Provided, however, if a conditional use for a housing
project or planned residential development approved prior to the effective
date of Section 13.04 is abandoned, or is discontinued for a continuous
period of one year, it may not thereafter be re-established unless authorized
as a Residential Planned Development Supplemental Use District.  The planned
residential development shall not be divided or separated in ownership unless
authorized under supplemental use district procedures as a residential
planned development.



 



   S.   As part of any conditional use approval, the initial
decision-maker or the appellate body may approve changes to the parking
requirements not to exceed 20% of the requirements otherwise required by the
Code.



 



   T.   Vesting Conditional Use Applications.



 



   1.   Application.  Whenever a provision of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code requires the filing of an application for a conditional use
permit, a vesting conditional use permit may be filed instead, in accordance
with these provisions.  If an applicant does not seek the rights conferred
by this subsection, the filing of a vesting application shall not be required
by the City for the approval of any proposed zone change, conditional use
permit, permit for construction or work preparatory to construction.



 



   2.   Development Rights.



 



   (a)   The approval of a vesting application shall confer a vested
right to proceed with a development in substantial compliance with the rules,
regulations, ordinances, zones and officially adopted policies of the City of
Los Angeles in force on the date the application is deemed complete, and with
the conditions of approval imposed and specifically enumerated by the
decision maker in its action on the vesting application case.  These rights
shall not include exemption from other applications or approvals that may be
necessary to entitle a project to proceed (i.e., subdivision, parcel map,
zone variance, design review, etc.) and from subsequent changes in the
Building and Safety and Fire regulations contained in Chapters V and IX of
the Los Angeles Municipal Code found necessary by the City Council to protect
the public health and safety and which are applicable on a citywide basis and
policies and standards relating to those regulations or from citywide
programs enacted after the application is deemed complete to implement State
or Federal mandates.



 



   (b)   If the ordinances, policies, or standards described in the
preceding paragraph are changed subsequent to the approval or conditional
approval of a vesting application case, the applicant, or his or her
successor or assignee, at any time prior to the expiration of the vesting
application case, may apply, pursuant to Subdivision 4 of this subsection,
for an amendment to the vesting application case to secure a vested right to
proceed with the changed ordinances, policies, or standards.  An application
shall clearly specify the changed ordinances, policies, or standards for
which the amendment is sought.



 



   (c)   Prior to final approval or signoff on a building permit filed
pursuant to a vesting application, the Planning Department shall submit a
copy of the final site plan to the office of the affected council district
for informational purposes only.



 



   3.   Procedures.



 



   (a)   Filing and Processing an Application.  A vesting conditional
use permit application shall be filed on the same form and have the same
contents, accompanying data and reports and shall be processed in the same
manner as set forth in Subsections B through Q for a conditional use permit
except as provided below.  The application shall specify that the case is
for a vesting conditional use permit.  If any rules, regulations or
ordinances in force at the time of filing require any additional approvals
(such as a variance or coastal development permit), the complete application
for these additional approvals shall be filed prior to or simultaneously with
the vesting conditional use permit to be processed pursuant to Section
12.36.  In all vesting conditional use permit cases, a site plan and a
rendering of the architectural plan of the building envelope shall be
submitted with the application.  The plans and renderings shall show the
proposed project’s height, design, size and square footage, number of
units, the location of buildings, driveways, internal vehicular circulation
patterns, loading areas and docks, location of landscaped areas, walls and
fences, pedestrian and vehicular entrances, location of public rights-of-way
and any other information deemed necessary by the Director of Planning.



 



   (b)   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.) Vesting
conditional use permits may be filed for the following conditional uses under
the authority of the City Planning Commission, Area Planning Commission, and
Zoning Administrator as described in Subsections U, V and W:



 



   Airports or heliports in connection with an airport.



 



   Auditoriums, stadiums and arenas with fewer than 25,000 seats in the
MR1 Zone



 



   Buildings over six stories or 75 feet in height within the Wilshire -
Westwood Scenic Corridor Specific Plan Area



 



   Churches/Houses of worship (except rescue missions or temporary
revivals) in the R Zones, C1, C1.5, CM or M Zone



 



   Correctional or penal institutions



 



   Educational Institutions



 



   Electrical power generating sites



 



   Floor area ratio averaging in unified developments



 



   Golf courses and facilities properly incidental to that use



 



   Hazardous waste facilities in the M2 and M3 Zoneswhere the principal
use of the land is for the storage and/or treatment of hazardous waste as
defined in California Health and Safety Code Section 25117.1



 



   Hazardous waste facilities in the M3 Zone where the principal use of
the land is for the disposal of hazardous waste as defined in California
Health and Safety Code Section 25117.1



 



   Hotels and apartment hotels, in the CR, C1, C1.5, C2, C4 and C5 Zones
if within 500 feet of any A or R Zone or in the M1, M2, or M3 Zones when more
than half of the lot is in a C Zone; hotels and motels in the R4 or R5 Zones



 



   Hospitals or sanitariums in the A, R, CR, C1, C1.5, CM or M Zones



 



   Land reclamation projects



 



   “Major” development projects



 



   Mixed Commercial/Residential Use Development



 



   Mixed use developments in the R5 Zone located in an approved
redevelopment project area  (Amended by Ord. No. 186,325, Eff. 11/11/19.)



 



   Motion picture and television studios in the A, R or C Zones



 



   Natural resources development



 



   Various Uses in the OS Open Space Zone



 



   Piers, jetties, man-made islands, floating installations



 



   Various Uses in the PF Zone



 



   Reduced on-site parking for housing developments occupied by persons 62
years of age or older in the RD, R3, R4 or R5 Zones



 



   Research and development centers



 



   Schools: public schools, elementary and high (kindergarten through 12th
grade); private schools, elementary and high (kindergarten through 12th
grade) in the A, RE, RS, R1, RU, RZ, RMP, RW1, R2, RD, RW2, R3, C1, C1.5 or M
Zones; and private schools [other than elementary or high (kindergarten
though 12th grade) or nursery schools] in the A, R, CR, C1 or C1.5 Zones.



 



   Sea water desalinization facilities and sites where the principal use
of the land is for the purposes of a sea water desalinization plant



 



   Notwithstanding the above, hotels and motels with 35 or fewer guest
rooms or any hotel or motel within the boundaries of the Specific Plan for
Conditional Use Approval for Establishments for the Sale of Alcohol which are
generally located in the South Central Area of the City (Ordinance No.
171,681), and stadiums and arenas and auditoriums with more than 25,000
seats, are not eligible for vesting privileges regulated by this subsection.



 



   (c)   Notwithstanding Paragraph 2(a) of this subsection, a vesting
conditional use permit may be conditioned or denied if the decision-maker
determines:  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,095, Eff. 5/7/12.)



 



   (1)   that the condition is necessary in order to make all of the
findings in Section 12.24 E.; or



 



   (2)   that one or more of the findings in Section 12.24 E. cannot be
made.



 



   If the appellate body does not adopt the findings and conditions of the
initial decision maker, the appellate body shall make its own findings.



 



   (d)   (Deleted by Ord. No. 182,106, Eff. 5/20/12.)



 



   4.   Amendment of Vested Project Plans or Amendment of Vested City
Regulations to Comply With Subsequent Regulation Changes.



 



   (a)   One or more of the owners or lessees of the subject property
may file a verified application requesting an amendment of the City
regulations as described in Paragraph 2(a) of this section vested by a
conditional use permit issued pursuant to this subsection.  They shall file
the application with the Department of City Planning upon a form designated
for this purpose, and accompany it with a fee as provided in Section 19.01 A.
of this Code.



 



   (b)   The Area Planning Commission, the City Planning Commission,
the Zoning Administrator or the Area Planning Commission or City Council on
conditional use permit appeals may approve any changes to the set of City
regulations to which the applicant’s project has vested for a conditional
use permit issued pursuant to this subsection.  The Department’s report
shall be made within 40 calendar days of the date of the request or within
any additional time as may be mutually agreed upon by the Department of City
Planning and the applicant.



 



   (c)   The City Council, the Area Planning Commission, the City
Planning Commission, or the Office of Zoning Administration prior to making a
decision pursuant to this subdivision shall hold a public hearing.  Written
notice shall be mailed to the owners or tenants of all property within and
outside of the City that is within 500 feet of the exterior boundaries of the
property involved.



 



   U.   Conditional Use Permits - City Planning Commission With Appeals
to City Council.  The following uses and activities may be permitted in any
zone, unless restricted to certain zones or locations, if approved by the
City Planning Commission as the initial decision-maker or the City Council as
the appellate body.  The procedures for reviewing applications for these
uses shall be those in Subsections B. through Q. in addition to those set out
below.  (First Para. Amended by Ord. No. 173,992, Eff. 7/6/01.)



 



   1.   Airports or heliports in connection with an airport.



 



   2.   Auditoriums, stadiums, arenas and the like.



 



   3.   (Deleted by Ord. No. 176,545, Eff. 5/2/05.)



 



   4.   (Deleted by Ord. No. 176,545, Eff. 5/2/05.)



 



   5.   Correctional or penal institutions.



 



   6.   Educational institutions.



 



   7.   Electric power generating sites, plants or stations, fueled by
any thermal power source or technology, provided that the facilities comply
with all applicable state and federal regulations.



 



   8.   Golf courses and facilities properly incidental to that use.



 



   9.   The following green waste and/or wood waste recycling uses in
the A1 and A2 Zones when conducted in accordance with the limitations after
specified:



 



   (a)   Types of uses:



 



   (1)   Chipping/grinding facility;



 



   (2)   Composting facility;



 



   (3)   Curing facility; and



 



   (4)   Mulching facility;



 



   (b)   Limitations:



 



   (1)   Notwithstanding any provision of Sections 12.05 and 12.06, the
uses set forth in Paragraph (a) of this subdivision shall be conducted wholly
within an enclosed building, or where deemed appropriate by the City Planning
Commission, within an area which is completely enclosed by a solid wall or
solid fence which is at least eight feet in height with necessary solid gates
of like height.



 



   (2)   Where, pursuant to Subparagraph (1) above, the required wall
or fence has been erected in an area which adjoins a street, no material
shall be stored within the enclosed area to a height greater than that of the
wall or fence for a distance of up to 50 feet from such wall or fence, unless
the height of the wall or fence is ten feet or more in height.  When the
height of the wall or fence is ten feet or more, no material shall be stored
within the enclosed area to a height greater than that of the wall or fence
for a distance of 37 feet from the wall or fence.  After the minimum setback
of either 50 feet or 37 feet has been observed, materials may be stored over
the height of the wall or fence as determined by the City Planning Commission.



 



   (3)   The property upon which any use enumerated in this subdivision
is conducted shall be landscaped to a minimum distance of five feet measured
at a right angle from the adjacent street, except for those areas which are
necessary for ingress and egress.



 



   (4)   Hours of operation shall be tailored to and be compatible with
adjoining uses.



 



   (5)   Signs displaying the name of the company and/or operator,
address and hours of operation shall be posted at or near the main entrance
gate to the recycling facility at all times.



 



   (6)   Wood waste and/or green waste recycling activities under this
subdivision shall not exceed the noise level set forth in Section 111.03 of
this Code as measured from any point on adjacent property which is located in
any A, R, C, P or M Zone.



 



   (7)   All wood waste and/or green waste recycling uses shall comply
with all necessary public safety requirements of Los Angeles Municipal Code
Section 57.121. These uses must not emit any odor or smell that is offensive
to adjacent uses and must further satisfy all necessary requirements as set
forth by applicable state and county agencies.



 



   (8)   No standing water shall be allowed to accumulate anywhere on
the site.



 



   (9)   All leachates shall be collected, controlled, disposed of and
shall not be allowed to remain at the site at any time.



 



   (10)   The minimum lot area requirements set forth in Sections 12.05
and 12.06 shall be complied with for any chipping and grinding, composting,
curing or mulching facility located in the A1 or A2 Zone.



 



   (11)   In addition to the findings otherwise required by this
section, before granting an approval the City Planning Commission shall find
that adequate safeguards are provided to control impacts resulting from
residual waste materials, airborne transmission of dust particles, or debris
from stockpiles, storage areas or roadways located on the premises.



 



   10.   Hazardous Waste Facilities in the M2 and M3 Zones where the
principal use of the land is for the storage and/or treatment of hazardous
waste as defined in Section 25117.1 of the California Health and Safety
Code.  In making any finding required pursuant to this section the City
Planning Commission shall consider whether the proposed use is consistent
with the adopted County Hazardous Waste Management Plan and any additional
siting criteria adopted by the City.  In addition, in the case of those
applications which are under the jurisdiction of Section 25199.7 of the
California Health and Safety Code, time limits for City Planning Commission
action shall be set forth in Article 8.7 of the California Health and Safety
Code.



 



   In connection with the implementation of these conditional uses, the
Director of Planning shall issue administrative guidelines for the processing
of these requests, including the levying of additional fees commensurate with
the cost of notification and hiring of independent consultants to review the
project as authorized by Section 25199.7 of the California Health and Safety
Code.



 



   11.   Hazardous Waste Facilities in the M3 Zone where the principal
use of the land is for the disposal of hazardous waste as defined in Section
25117.1 of the California Health and Safety Code.  In making any finding
required pursuant to this section, the City Planning Commission shall
consider whether the proposed use is consistent with the adopted County
Hazardous Waste Management Plan and any additional siting criteria adopted by
the City.  In addition, for those applications which come under the
jurisdiction of Section 25199.7 of the California Health and Safety Code,
time limits for City Planning Commission action shall be as set forth in
Article 8.7 of the California Health and Safety Code.



 



   In connection with the implementation of these conditional uses, the
Director of Planning shall issue administrative guidelines for the processing
of these requests, including the levying of additional fees commensurate with
the cost of notification and the hiring of independent consultants to review
the project as authorized by Section 25199.7 of the California Health and
Safety Code.



 



   12.   Hospitals or sanitariums in the A, R, CR, C4, CM or M Zones,
and in the C1 or C1.5 Zones if not permitted by right.



 



   13.   Land reclamation projects through the disposal of rubbish, as
the term rubbish is defined in Section 66.00 of this Code and operated or
caused to be operated by any city, county, district, or public or municipal
corporation.



 



   14.   “Major” development projects, otherwise permitted by right
in the zone(s) in which they are located and in compliance with the
limitations and regulations of this article.



 



   (a)   Definitions.  (Amended by Ord. No. 176,166, Eff. 10/4/04.) 
For purposes of this Subdivision the following words and phrases are defined
as follows:



 



   Day Laborer means a person who offers himself or herself to be hired as
a laborer for a day, or some other temporary basis.  (Added by Ord. No.
180,174, Eff. 10/5/08.)



 



   Economic Assistance Areas means the existing geographically defined
areas:  State Enterprise Zones, Federal Empowerment Zone, Federal Renewal
Community Zone, Redevelopment Project Areas with Unexpired Community
Redevelopment Plans, and Earthquake Project Areas, and a one-mile buffer
surrounding each of the above-identified zones, as identified by the Economic
& Workforce Development Department and as shown on the "Los Angeles Economic
Assistance Areas" Map, dated January 2004, which is attached to Council File
No. 00-1675 S2 and is on file in the Economic & Workforce Development
Department, and which may be amended from time to time.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 186,325, Eff. 11/11/19.)



 



   Home Improvement Store means a Major Development Project that contains
100,000 square feet or more in a building or structure, including the square
footage of preexisting structures used as a part of the Home Improvement
Store, that sells a large variety of goods, that may include, but are not
limited to, the sale of hardware, lumber, plumbing supplies, electrical
fixtures and supplies, windows, doors, garden supplies, plants and similar
items, used in the maintenance, improvement or expansion of dwellings,
buildings or sites.  (Added by Ord. No. 180,174, Eff. 10/5/08.)



 



   Major Development Project means the construction of, the addition to,
or the alteration of, any buildings or structures, which create or add
250,000 square feet or more of warehouse floor area, 250 or more hotel/motel
guest rooms, a Home Improvement Store, or 100,000 square feet or more of
floor area in other nonresidential or non-warehouse uses in the C2, C4, C5,
CM, M1, M2 and M3 Zones.  (First Sentence Amended by Ord. No. 180,174, Eff.
10/5/08.)  The above definition shall apply to the cumulative sum of related
or successive permits which are part of a larger project, such as piecemeal
additions to a building, or multiple buildings on a lot as determined by the
Director of Planning.  For the purpose of this subdivision, floor area shall
be as defined in Section 12.03 of this Code.



 



   Non-taxable Merchandise means products, commodities, or items not
subject to California state sales tax.  For purposes of this ordinance, the
definition of non-taxable merchandise shall not include, without limitation,
Sales Floor Area devoted to any of the following categories: services,
including the services of a chiropractor, optometrist, optician, physician,
surgeon, podiatrist, dentist, spa, gym, nail salon, and travel accommodation
services; theaters and other entertainment uses; and food products sold
through vending machines.



 



   Sales Floor Area means the interior building space devoted to the sale
of merchandise, but excludes restrooms, office space, storage space,
automobile service areas, or open-air garden sales space.  For the purpose
of determining the total sales floor area of a single business establishment,
the aggregate square footage of all adjacent stores that share common check
stands, management of the business operation of such adjacent stores,
controlling ownership interest in the business operation of such adjacent
stores, warehouses, or distribution facilities shall be considered a single
business establishment.



 



   Superstore means a Major Development Project that sells from the
premises goods and merchandise, primarily for personal or household use, and
whose total Sales Floor Area exceeds 100,000 square feet and which devote
more than 10% of sales floor area to the sale of Non-Taxable Merchandise. 
This definition excludes wholesale clubs or other establishments selling
primarily bulk merchandise and charging membership dues or otherwise
restricting merchandise sales to customers paying a periodic assessment
fee.  This definition also excludes the sale or rental of motor vehicles,
except for parts and accessories, and the sale of materials used in
construction of buildings or other structures, except for paint, fixtures,
and hardware.



 



   (b)   Findings.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,095, Eff. 5/7/12.)  In
addition to the findings set forth in Section 12.24 E., the City Planning
Commission shall find:



 



   (1)   that the project provides for an arrangement of uses,
buildings, structures, open spaces and other improvements that are compatible
with the scale and character of the adjacent properties and surrounding
neighborhood;



 



   (2)   that the project complies with the height and area regulations
of the zone in which it is located; and



 



   (3)   that the project is consistent with the City Planning
Commission's design guidelines for Major Development Projects, if any.



 



   (c)   Projects Exempt From Conditional Use Requirement:



 



   (1)   Notwithstanding any provisions of this article to the
contrary, any development project which received one or more still-valid
discretionary approvals, including but not limited to those listed below,
shall be exempt from the conditional use requirement set forth in this
subdivision:



 



   (i)   zone change;



 



   (ii)   height district change;



 



   (iii)   supplemental use district;



 



   (iv)   conditional use approval;



 



   (v)   variance or adjustment;



 



   (vi)   parcel map;



 



   (vii)   tentative tract map;



 



   (viii)   coastal development permit;



 



   (ix)   development agreement;



 



   (x)   density bonus greater than the minimums pursuant to Government
Code Section 65915;



 



   (xi)   density transfer plan;



 



   (xii)   exception from a geographically specific plan;



 



   (xiii)   project permit pursuant to a moratorium or interim control
ordinance or specific plan;



 



   (xiv)   public benefit projects; or



 



   (xv)   other similar discretionary approvals, as determined by the
Director.



 



   This exemption shall apply only if the applicable decision-making body
determines in writing that the prior discretionary approval, and the required
environmental review, considered significant aspects of the approved
project’s design (such as, but not limited to, building location, height,
density, use, parking access) and that the existing environmental
documentation under the California Environmental Quality Act is adequate for
the issuance of the present permit in light of the conditions specified in
Section 21166 of the California Public Resources Code.  The Department of
City Planning may require supplements to the environmental documentation to
maintain its currentness.  The Director is hereby authorized to establish
procedures to process decisions required under this paragraph.



 



   (2)   Any project within the boundaries of a designated Enterprise
Zone, or Employment in Economic Incentive Zone provided that an Environmental
Impact Report or Environmental Impact Statement was certified as part of the
Zone designation process.  The project shall instead require site plan
review pursuant to Section 16.05.



 



   (d)   Superstores in Economic Assistance Areas.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 186,325, Eff. 11/11/19.)



 



   (1)   Additional Findings.  In addition to the findings otherwise
required by this Section and set forth in Paragraph (b) of this Subdivision,
prior to approval of a Superstore that is located in an Economic Assistance
Area, the City Planning Commission or the City Council on appeal shall find,
after consideration of all economic benefits and costs, that the Superstore
would not materially adversely affect the economic welfare of the Impact
Area, based upon information contained in an economic impact analysis report
submitted by the applicant, any other information received or obtained by the
Economic & Workforce Development Department, a recommendation by the Economic
& Workforce Development Department, pursuant to Subparagraph (3) below, and
any other information received before or at a public hearing required by this
Section.  The phrase "Impact Area" refers to a three mile radius surrounding
the proposed location of the Superstore.



 



   (2)   Procedures.  An application for approval of a Superstore
pursuant to this Paragraph shall follow the procedures for conditional use
permits otherwise required by this Section.  In addition, the applicant
shall prepare and submit the economic impact analysis report referenced in
Subparagraph (1) to the Economic & Workforce Development Department for
review in conjunction with its application to the Department of Planning. 
The economic impact analysis report shall be reviewed by the Department
and/or a consultant, if deemed necessary by the Department and paid for in
full by the applicant.  The Economic & Workforce Development Department
shall complete its review of the report within 60 days after receipt of the
report from the applicant.  The report shall identify whether:



 



   (i)   Efforts to establish a market larger than 20,000 square feet
within the Impact Area have been unsuccessful or whether the proposed use
will have an adverse impact or economic benefit on grocery or retail shopping
centers in the Impact Area;



 



   (ii)   The Superstore would result in the physical displacement of
any businesses, and, if so, the nature of the displaced businesses or would
create economic stimulation in the Impact Area;



 



   (iii)   The Superstore would require the demolition of housing, or
any other action or change that results in a decrease of extremely low, very
low, low or moderate income housing on site;



 



   (iv)   The Superstore would result in the destruction or demolition
of any park or other green space, playground, childcare facility, community
center;



 



   (v)   The Superstore would provide lower in cost and/or higher in
quality goods and services to residents than currently available or that are
currently unavailable from a cost benefit perspective within the Impact Area
in which the Project is proposed to be located;



 



   (vi)   The Superstore would displace jobs within the Impact Area or
provide economic revitalization and/or job creation.  For purposes of
determining this impact, the applicant must identify the number of jobs
displaced or created, the quality of the jobs, whether the jobs are temporary
or permanent, and the employment sector in which the lost jobs are located;



 



   (vii)   The Superstore would have a fiscal impact either positive or
negative on City tax revenue;



 



   (viii)   Any restrictions exist on the subsequent use of the
property on which the Superstore is proposed to be located, including the
provisions of a lease if applicable, which, in the event the owner or
operator of the Superstore vacates the premises, would require the premises
to remain vacant for a significant amount of time;



 



   (ix)   The Superstore will result in any materially adverse or
positive economic impacts or blight on the Impact Area; and



 



   (x)   Any measures are available which will mitigate any materially
adverse economic impacts, if any, identified by the applicant, if necessary.



 



   (3)   Recommendation.  The Economic & Workforce Development
Department, shall review the economic impact analysis report and, after
consideration of economic benefits and costs, make a written recommendation
as to whether the proposed Superstore will result in a materially adverse
economic impact on the Impact Area and, if so, whether conditions are
available which will mitigate the economic impact.  The written
recommendation, including proposed mitigation measures, if any, shall be
submitted to the Department of Planning by the Economic & Workforce
Development Department, in accordance with the written procedures on file
with the Department.



 



   (e)   Home Improvement Stores.  (Added by Ord. No. 180,174, Eff.
10/5/08.)



 



   (1)   The City Planning Commission, or the City Council on appeal,
may require written Day Laborer operating standards in accordance with
Subparagraph (2) of this paragraph to be submitted to the Department for
review and approval within 30 days of the mailing of the determination as a
condition of approval of any Home Improvement Store.  The Day Laborer
operating standards will not be required if the City Planning Commission or
the City Council on appeal makes the following findings:



 



   (i)   There is no existing Day Laborer population in the vicinity of
the site proposed for the Home Improvement Store;



 



   (ii)   A significant number of Day Laborers are not expected to
congregate in and around the Home Improvement Store for the purpose of
seeking employment;



 



   (iii)   The congregation of Day Laborers in and around the Home
Improvement Store will not result in increased trash around the site,
increased noise or impede vehicular and pedestrian access to and from the
site, as well as throughout its parking lot and adjacent sidewalks;



 



   (iv)   The congregation of Day Laborers in and around the Home
Improvement Store will not cause potential adverse traffic, trash and
loitering impacts to the commercial and residential areas surrounding the
site; and



 



   (v)   Public or private security is available or economically
feasible to reduce or eliminate the potential adverse impacts related to the
presence of Day Laborers seeking employment at the Home Improvement Store.



 



   (2)   The written Day Laborer operating standards may include, but
not be limited to, the following:



 



   (i)   A suitable area located on site for Day Laborers seeking
employment with customers at the Home Improvement Store (Day Laborer Site)
that:



 



   (a)   is easily accessible and viewable to Day Laborers seeking
employment, as well as potential employers of these individuals;



 



   (b)   is located so as not to impede or restrict vehicular or
pedestrian access to or from the Home Improvement Store, or throughout the
parking lot and adjacent sidewalks;



 



   (c)   is designed to complement the overall design of structures
located on the site and is integrated into the overall layout of the site;



 



   (d)   is equipped with a minimum level of easily accessible and
convenient amenities, such as sources of drinking water, toilet and trash
facilities, tables and seating, for use by Day Laborers seeking employment;



 



   (e)   is covered to provide adequate shelter from the weather;



 



   (f)   is open during the hours of operation of the Home Improvement
Store.



 



   (ii)   A signage plan, indicating the location of signs at
appropriate locations throughout the site directing Day Laborers either
seeking employment or individuals seeking to employ Day Laborers to the Day
Laborer Site.



 



   (iii)   A security plan, prepared in consultation with the Los
Angeles Police Department.



 



   15.   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,756, Eff. 3/8/01.)  Motion picture
and television studios and related incidental uses that are located on a
motion picture or television studio site, in the A, R, or C Zones, when not
permitted by right.  These incidental uses may include, but are not limited
to, film, video, audio and other media production, recording and
broadcasting, sound labs, film editing, film video and audio processing, sets
and props production, computer design, computer graphics, animation, offices
and ancillary facilities related to those activities.



 



   16.   (Deleted by Ord. No. 173,756, Eff. 3/8/01.)



 



   17.   Natural resources development (except the drilling or
production of oil, gas or other hydrocarbon substances, or the production of
rock and gravel), together with the necessary buildings, apparatus or
appurtenances incident to that use.



 



   18.   Onshore installations required in connection with the drilling
for or production of oil, gas or hydrocarbons when the installations are
permitted by the conditions of the offshore oil drilling district which is to
be served.



 



   19.   In the OS Open Space Zone:



 



   (a)   Recreation centers, senior citizen centers, community centers,
clubhouses, community rooms, playgrounds, beaches, swimming pools, libraries,
tennis courts, game courts, rest rooms, gyms and camping facilities.



 



   (b)   Golf courses.



 



   (c)   Museums.



 



   (d)   Appurtenant structures adjacent to reservoir use, such as
water treatment facilities, pumping facilities, distribution facilities and
water filtration plants.



 



   (e)   Nature preserves, subject to the approval of a detailed site
plan and management program approved by the operating agency and by the City
Planning Commission pursuant to the procedure set forth in Section 12.24M.



 



   (f)   Aquaria, observatories, planetaria and zoos.



 



   (g)   High voltage transmission lines (including towers).



 



   (h)   Any use set forth in Section 12.04.05B1 when located on land
which:



 



   (1)   includes a lake, river or stream; or



 



   (2)   is designated as an historic or cultural landmark.



 



   (i)   Change of use from any of the uses listed above to any use
described in Section 12.04.05B1.



 



   20.   Piers, jetties, man-made islands, floating installations, or
the like in connection with the uses listed in Section 12.20.1B2(a), in the
SL Ocean-Submerged Land Zone.



 



   21.   The following uses in the PF Zone:  (Amended by Ord. No.
173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)  convention and exhibition centers; government
owned parking facilities; flood control facilities; sewage treatment
facilities; covered reservoirs; appurtenant structures adjacent to covered
and uncovered reservoirs, such as water treatment facilities, water pumping
facilities, water distribution facilities, and water filtration plants;
sanitary landfills; and any joint public and private development uses more
intensive than those permitted in the most restrictive adjoining zones.  The
phrase “adjoining zones” refers to the zones of properties abutting,
across the street or alley from, or having a common corner with, the subject
property.  In addition to the findings otherwise required by this
subdivision, for any joint public and private development uses, the
Commission shall find that benefits are provided to the public and that the
benefit accruing from the project, whether as a result of additional taxes of
the provision of public facilities, is sufficient to outweigh any impairment
of the public interest that may be created by the public agencies’ proposed
use of the land.



 



   22.   The following recycling uses in the zones listed below,
subject to the limitations indicated.



 



   (a)   The depositing of glass, cans, papers, plastic, beverage
containers, and similar Recyclable Materials, Recycling Collection or Buyback
Centers, and Mobile Recycling Centers, in the C2, C5, CM, P, PB, MR1, M1, or
MR2 Zones, provided that the facility complies with all of the conditions set
forth in Section 12.21 A.18.(d), except when the conditions are specifically
modified by the City Planning Commission.



 



   (b)   The depositing of glass, cans, papers, plastic, beverage
containers, and similar Recyclable Materials, Recycling Collection or Buyback
Centers, and Mobile Recycling Centers, in the M2 or M3 Zones when the
facility is not in compliance with all of the conditions set forth in Section
12.21 A.18.(d).



 



   (c)   Recycling Materials Processing Facilities in the M2 and M3
Zones when the facility is not in compliance with all of the conditions set
forth in Section 12.21 A.18.(f).



 



   (d)   Recycling Materials Sorting Facilities in the M and MR Zones
when the facility is not in compliance with all of the conditions set forth
in Section 12.21 A.18.(e).



 



   (e)   An application for a conditional use shall be referred
forthwith for review to the City Council member of the district in which the
property is located.  (Amended and former subsec. (f) deleted, Ord. No.
182,095, Eff. 5/7/12.)



 



   23.   Research and development centers for experimental or
scientific investigation of materials, methods or products, except in the RA
and R Zones.



 



   24.   Schools:  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)



 



   (a)   Public schools, elementary and high (kindergarten through 12th
grade);



 



   (b)   Private schools, elementary and high (kindergarten through
12th grade) in the A, RE, RS, RI, RU, RZ, RMP, RW1, R2, RD, RW2, R3, C1,
C1.5, or M Zones;



 



   (c)   Private schools [other than elementary or high (kindergarten
through 12th grade) or nursery schools] in the A, R, CR, C1, or C1.5 Zones.



 



   25.   Sea Water Desalinization Facilities and sites where the
principal use of the land is for the purposes of a sea water desalinization
plant, provided that the facilities comply with all applicable state and
federal regulations.



 



   26.   Density Bonus for a Housing Development Project in Which the
Density Increase Is Greater than the Maximum Permitted in Section 12.22
A.25.  (Amended by Ord. No. 185,373, Eff. 2/26/18.)



 



   (a)   In addition to the findings set forth in Section 12.24 E., the
City Planning Commission shall find that:



 



   (1)   the project is consistent with and implements the affordable
housing provisions of the Housing Element of the General Plan;



 



   (2)   the project contains the requisite number of Restricted
Affordable Units, based on the number of units permitted by the maximum
allowable density on the date of application, as follows:



 



   a.   11% Very Low Income Units for a 35% density increase; or



 



   b.   20% Low Income Units for a 35% density increase; or



 



   c.   40% Moderate Income Units for a 35% density increase in
for-sale projects.



 



   The project may then be granted additional density increases beyond 35%
by providing additional affordable housing units in the following manner:



 



   d.   For every additional 1% set aside of Very Low Income Units, the
project is granted an additional 2.5% density increase; or



 



   e.   For every additional 1% set aside of Low Income Units, the
project is granted an additional 1.5% density increase; or



 



   f.   For every additional 1% set aside of Moderate Income Units in
for-sale projects, the project is granted an additional 1% density increase;
or



 



   g.   In calculating the density increase and Restricted Affordable
Units, each component of any density calculation, including base density and
bonus density, resulting in fractional units shall be separately rounded up
to the next whole number.



 



   (3)   the project meets any applicable dwelling unit replacement
requirements of California Government Code Section 65915(c)(3);



 



   (4)   the project's Restricted Affordable Units are subject to a
recorded affordability restriction of 55 years from the issuance of the
Certificate of Occupancy, recorded in a covenant acceptable to the Housing
and Community Investment Department, and subject to fees as set forth in
Section 19.14 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code; and



 



   (5)   the project addresses the policies and standards contained in
the City Planning Commission's Affordable Housing Incentives Guidelines.



 



   27.   Floor area bonus for a residential (including Apartment Hotel
and mixed-use) building in the Greater Downtown Housing Incentive Area where
the floor area bonus exceeds that permitted pursuant to Section 12.22 A.29.
of this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,095, Eff. 5/7/12.)



 



   In addition to the findings set forth in Section 12.24 E., the City
Planning Commission shall find:



 



   (a)   that the project is consistent with and implements the
affordable housing provisions of the General Plan's Housing Element; and



 



   (b)   that any residential building (including Apartment Hotels and
mixed-use buildings) in the Central City Community Plan Area conforms with
the Urban Design Standards and Guidelines for the Central City Community Plan
Area.



 



   28.   Solid Waste Alternative Technology Processing Facilities in
the M2, M3, and PF Zones.  (Added by Ord. No. 181,272, Eff. 9/28/10.)  In
addition to the other findings required by this section, the City Planning
Commission shall make all of the following findings:



 



   (a)   that the proposed location of the facility will not result in
an undue concentration of solid waste alternative technology processing
facilities in the immediate area, will not create a cumulative impact with
special consideration given to the location of solid waste facilities already
permitted and will support the equitable distribution of these facilities
citywide;



 



   (b)   that an effort was made to locate the facility in close
proximity to existing solid waste facilities, transfer stations, solid waste
resource collection vehicle yards, material recovery facilities and green
waste processing facilities;



 



   (c)   that the facility will not detrimentally affect nearby
residential uses and other sensitive land uses, taking into consideration the
number and proximity of residential buildings, churches, schools, hospitals,
public playgrounds, nursing homes, day care centers, and other similar uses
within a 1,500 foot radius of the proposed site;



 



   (d)   that the facility operator will provide a language appropriate
quarterly newsletter and other benefits to businesses and residents likely to
be impacted by this facility, taking into consideration the location of the
proposed site and nearby uses;



 



   (e)   that the facility and the vehicles serving the facility are
designed, constructed and operated to ensure that they will not create noise,
odor, or visual blight that is detrimental to nearby uses;



 



   (f)   that access to the facility, on-site parking and vehicle
storage will not constitute a traffic hazard or cause significant traffic
congestion or disruption of vehicular circulation on adjacent streets; and



 



   (g)   that hazardous waste and household hazardous waste as defined
in the California Code of Regulations, Title 22, Section 66260.10, universal
waste as defined in the California Code of Regulations, Title 22, Section
66261.9, radioactive waste as defined in Section 114985 of the California
Health and Safety Code and medical waste as defined in Section 117690 of the
California Health and Safety Code, will not be received at the facility.



 



   29.   Petroleum-Based Oil Refineries (production of petroleum-based
fuels, asphalt, coke or similar products) in an M3 Zone:  (Added by Ord. No.
184,246, Eff. 6/4/16.)



 



   (a)   Project Types.



 



   (1)   New refineries;



 



   (2)   Existing refineries expanding operations beyond the current
property lines.



 



   (b)   Requirements.



 



   (1)   Current compliance with all of the required Unified Programs
(Unified Hazardous Waste and Hazardous Materials Management Regulatory
Program). California Environmental Reporting System (CERS) database
submittals may serve as proof of compliance.



 



   (2)   Submittal of a health impact assessment of the project for the
surrounding vicinity identifying pollution and population indicators, such
as, but not limited to, those analyzed in the California Communities
Environmental Health Screening Tool; the number of people affected by the
project; short term or permanent impacts caused by the project; likelihood
that impacts will occur; and recommended mitigation measures.



 



   (3)   Submittal of a truck routing plan that minimizes the incidence
of a commercial truck traveling past residences, churches, schools,
hospitals, public playgrounds, nursing homes, day care centers, and other
similar uses.



 



   V.   Conditional Use Permit – Area Planning Commission with
Appeals to the City Council.  (Amended by Ord. No. 185,373, Eff. 2/26/18.) 
The following uses and activities may be permitted in any zone, unless
restricted to certain zones or locations, if approved by the Area Planning
Commission as the initial decision-maker or the City Council as the appellate
body.  In addition to the requirements set forth below, the decision-maker
shall follow the procedures set forth in Subsections B. through Q.



 



   Mixed Commercial/Residential Use Developments



 



   1.   Findings.  In addition to the findings set forth in Section
12.24 E., the Area Planning Commission shall find that:



 



   (a)   the project is consistent with and implements the affordable
housing provisions of the General Plan's Housing Element;



 



   (b)   the project will further the City's goal of achieving an
improved jobs-housing relationship, which is needed to improve air quality in
the City;



 



   (c)   pursuant to an agreement entered into under Government Code
Sections 65915 - 65918, the project will include the number of Restricted
Affordable Units as set forth in Section 12.24 U.26.(a)(1) through (5) of the
Los Angeles Municipal Code, with any percentage increase in floor area
treated the same as a percentage increase in density for purposes of
calculating the number of Restricted Affordable Units;



 



   (d)   the affordability of all reserved lower income dwelling units
will continue for a minimum of 55 years;



 



   (e)   the construction and amenities provided for the reserved lower
income dwelling units will be comparable to those provided for the market
rate dwelling units in the development, including the average number of
bedrooms and bathrooms per dwelling unit; and



 



   (f)   the approval of a mixed use development on the site will
provide for affordable housing costs in the housing development.



 



   2.   Only residential dwelling units shall be considered a
residential use for purposes of this subdivision's provisions regarding mixed
commercial/ residential use developments.



 



   3.   In approving a mixed commercial/residential use development in
Height District No. 1, the Area Planning Commission may permit a floor area
ratio for the development not to exceed three times the buildable area of the
lot.



 



   4.   In approving a mixed commercial/residential use development,
the Area Planning Commission may permit a floor area ratio for the
development not to exceed twelve times the buildable area of the lot, when
the development is located:



 



   (a)   in Height District Nos. 2, 3 or 4;



 



   (b)   not more than 1,500 feet distant from the portal of a fixed
rail transit or bus station or other similar transit facility; or



 



   (c)   within a Redevelopment Project Plan Area, an Enterprise Zone
or a Centers Study Area, as described in Sections 11.5.14, 12.21.4, and
12.21.5.  (Amended by Ord. No. 186,325, Eff. 11/11/19.)



 



   5.   Any floor area above the maximum allowed in the plan or the
zone, whichever is less, shall be utilized solely for residential development.



 



   6.   The provisions of this subdivision may not be used in
combination with the provisions of Subsection W.15., but may be used in
combination with the provisions of Section 12.22 A.18.



 



   W.   Authority of the Zoning Administrator for Conditional
Uses/Initial Decision.  The following uses and activities may be permitted
in any zone, unless restricted to certain zones or locations, if approved by
the Zoning Administrator as the initial decision-maker or the Area Planning
Commission as the appellate body.  The procedures for reviewing applications
for these uses shall be those in Subsections B through Q in addition to those
set out below. (First Para. Amended by Ord. No. 173,992, Eff. 7/6/01.)



 



   1.   The sale or dispensing for consideration of alcoholic
beverages, including beer and wine, for consumption on the premises or
off-site of the premises in the CR, C1, C1.5, C2, C4, C5, CM, MR1, MR2, M1,
M2 and M3 Zones, or as an incidental business in or accessory to the
operation of clubs, lodges, hotels or apartment hotels, or as an incidental
business in or accessory to a conditional use approved pursuant to the
provisions of this section, provided that:



 



   (a)   Findings.  In addition to the findings otherwise required by
this section, the Zoning Administrator shall make all of the following
findings:



 



   (1)   that the proposed use will not adversely affect the welfare of
the pertinent community;



 



   (2)   that the granting of the application will not result in an
undue concentration of premises for the sale or dispensing for consideration
of alcoholic beverages, including beer and wine, in the area of the City
involved, giving consideration to applicable State laws and to the California
Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control’s guidelines for undue
concentration; and also giving consideration to the number and proximity of
these establishments within a one thousand foot radius of the site, the crime
rate in the area (especially those crimes involving public drunkenness, the
illegal sale or use of narcotics, drugs or alcohol, disturbing the peace and
disorderly conduct), and whether revocation or nuisance proceedings have been
initiated for any use in the area; and



 



   (3)   that the proposed use will not detrimentally affect nearby
residentially zoned communities in the area of the City involved, after
giving consideration to the distance of the proposed use from residential
buildings, churches, schools, hospitals, public playgrounds and other similar
uses, and other establishments dispensing, for sale or other consideration,
alcoholic beverages, including beer and wine.



 



   (b)   Notice to Councilmember.  Whenever an application for a
conditional use has been filed pursuant to this subdivision, the Zoning
Administrator shall give notice of this fact promptly to the councilmembers
whose districts include portions of the area of the City involved.



 



   (c)   Limitations.  The provisions of this subdivision shall not
apply to the sale or dispensing for consideration of alcoholic beverages,
including beer and wine, for consumption off-site of any premises located
within the area of an operative specific plan which provides for conditional
use approval for sale or dispensing.  If that specific plan ceases to be
operative, then a conditional use approval granted pursuant to the provisions
of that specific plan for sale or dispensing may continue subject to the same
rights and limitations as a conditional use granted pursuant to the
provisions of  this section.



 



   (d)   Existing Uses. The use of a lot for an establishment
dispensing, for sale or other consideration, alcoholic beverages, including
beer and wine, for on-site or off-site consumption may not be continued or
re-established without conditional use approval granted in accordance with
the provisions of this section if, after September 13, 1997, there is a
substantial change in the mode or character of operation of the
establishment, including any expansion by more than 20 percent of the floor
area, seating or occupancy, whichever applies; except that construction for
which a building permit is required in order to comply with an order issued
by the Department of Building and Safety to repair or  remedy an unsafe or
substandard condition is exempt from this provision.  Any expansion of less
than 20 percent of the floor area, seating or occupancy, whichever applies,
requires the approval of plans pursuant to Subsection M of this section.



 



   2.   Automotive fueling and service stations, but not including
automobile laundry or wash rack in the C1.5 and C4 Zone, subject to:



 



   (a)   The site shall abut a major or secondary highway;



 



   (b)   No service station activities, other than a public parking
area, shall be located within 20 feet of an A or R Zone;



 



   (c)   The requirements of Paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d) and (g) of
Section 12.14A6 shall apply;



 



   (d)   Driveways shall be located and designed so as to minimize
conflicts with pedestrian and vehicular traffic, and on a corner lot shall be
located 25 feet or more from the intersection of the street lot lines;



 



   (e)   Display of merchandise for sale shall be permitted only within
enclosed buildings, on the pump islands, in the open within three feet of the
exterior walls of the main building, and in not more than two portable or
semi-portable cabinets, provided each of the cabinets does not exceed six
feet in height, nor 40 square feet in base area, and provided further that
these cabinets are located not less than 50 feet from all street lines;



 



   (f)   There shall be no rental of equipment, trailers or vehicles;



 



   (g)   Storage of materials or equipment shall be permitted only
within a completely enclosed building or within an area enclosed on all sides
with a solid wall or fence, not less than six feet in height;



 



   (h)   Not more than two signs which are freestanding or which
project more than two feet above the roof of a building to which they are
attached, and not more than two portable signs, shall be permitted;



 



   (i)   One percent or more of the area of the lot shall be suitably
landscaped and provision shall be made for maintenance of landscaped areas.



 



   3.   Automotive repair in the C4 Zone.



 



   4.   Automotive Uses in the C Zones that Do Not Comply with the
Development Standards and Operating Conditions Enumerated in Sections 12.22
A.28. or in the M Zones that do not comply with Section 12.17.6 of this
Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 178,382, Eff. 3/24/07.)



 



   (a)   Standards.  In making a determination on an application for a
conditional use filed pursuant to this subdivision, a Zoning Administrator
may consider all of the applicable provisions of Section 12.22 A.28. of this
Code as establishing minimum standards for the approval of automotive uses.



 



   (b)   Findings.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,095, Eff. 5/7/12.)  In
addition to the findings set forth in Section 12.24 E., the Zoning
Administrator shall find:



 



   (1)   that project approval will not create or add to a detrimental
concentration of automotive uses in the vicinity of the proposed automotive
use;



 



   (2)   that based on data provided by the Department of
Transportation or a licensed traffic engineer, ingress to, egress from and
associated parking of the automotive use will not constitute a traffic hazard
or cause significant traffic congestion or disruption of vehicular
circulation on adjacent streets;



 



   (3)   that any spray painting will be conducted within a fully
enclosed structure located at least 500-feet away from a school or A or R
zone, and that all spray painting will be conducted in full compliance with
the provisions of Article 7, Chapter 5 of this Code, as well as South Coast
Air Quality Management District Rules 1132 and 1151, regulating these
installations; and



 



   (4)   that the applicant has submitted an appropriate landscape plan
setting forth all plant materials and irrigation systems, and a written
maintenance schedule indicating how the landscaping will be maintained.



 



   5.   Bovine feed or sales yards, riding academies or the commercial
grazing, breeding, boarding, raising or training of domestic animals in the
A1 or A2 Zones; and the raising, grazing, breeding, boarding or training of
equines, riding academies or stables in the RA, MR or M1 Zones.



 



   6.   Cattle or goat dairies in the A1 or A2 Zones.



 



   7.   (Deleted by Ord. No. 186,325, Eff. 11/11/19.)



 



   8.   Chipping and grinding facilities in the M2 Zone where these
facilities are not conducted within a wholly enclosed building.



 



   9.   Churches (except rescue mission or temporary revival) in the A,
RE, RS, R1, RU, RZ, RMP, RW1, R2, RD, RW2, R3, C1, C1.5, CM or M Zones.



 



   10.   Circus quarters or menageries in the A Zones and MR2 Zone.



 



   11.   CM uses in the C1, C1.5, C2, C4, and C5 Zones where located
within the boundaries of a Redevelopment Project Area, as that term is
defined by Section 11.5.14, and when the uses conform to the provisions of
the applicable Redevelopment Plan, as that term is defined by Section
11.5.14.  (Amended by Ord. No. 186,325, Eff. 11/11/19.)



 



   12.   Columbariums, crematories or mausoleums, other than in
cemeteries, in the A, R, C (except CR), M1 and MR2 Zones.



 



   13.   Community antenna facilities franchised by the City of Los
Angeles for cable television or radio service in the A, R, C1 or C1.5 Zones.



 



   14.   Counseling and referral facilities in the R3, R4 and R5 Zones;
provided that, in addition to the findings otherwise required by this
section, the Zoning Administrator shall also specifically find that:



 



   (a)   The facility will serve the immediate neighborhood in which it
is to be located; and



 



   (b)   No commercially zoned property equally accessible to that
neighborhood is reasonably available for the location of the facility.



 



   15.   Developments Combining Residential and Commercial Uses in the
R5 Zone when located outside the Central City Community Plan Area.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 182,452, Eff. 4/4/13.)  Any use or combination of uses in the
CR, C1, C1.5, C2, C4, C5 or R5 Zones may be authorized.  (For mixed use
developments permitted by right, see Section 12.22 A.18. of this Code.)



 



   16.   Drive-in theaters in the A, R or C1 Zones.



 



   17.   Drive-through fast-food establishments in all C Zones, except
the CR Zone, when located on a lot, the lot line of which adjoins, is across
the street from, or separated only by an alley from, any portion of a lot or
lots in a residential zone or use or the RA Zone.  In addition to the
findings otherwise required by this section, the Zoning Administrator shall
also find:



 



   (a)   that residential uses in the vicinity of a proposed
drive-through fast-food establishment will be adequately protected from any
significant noise resulting from outdoor speakers, autos, or other sources of
noise associated with the lot;



 



   (b)   that all stationary light generated on the lot is screened to
avoid any significant adverse impact on nearby residential uses; and



 



   (c)   that trash storage, trash pickup hours, driveways, parking
locations, screening walls, trees and landscaping are provided for and
located so as to minimize disturbance to the occupants of nearby residential
uses, and to enhance the privacy of those uses.



 



   18.   The following entertainment uses in the zones specified:



 



   (a)   Dance Halls in the C2, C4, C5, CM, M1, M2 or M3 Zones.



 



   (b)   Hostess dance halls in the C2, C5, CM, M1, M2 or M3 Zones.



 



   (c)   Massage parlors or sexual encounter establishments as both
terms are defined in Section 12.70 in the C2, C5, CM, M1, M2 or M3 Zones and
which otherwise comply with all requirements of Section 12.70.



 



   19.   Floor area ratio averaging and residential density transfer in
unified developments.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,451, Eff. 4/4/13.)



 



   (a)   Floor Area Ratio Averaging.  The averaging of floor area
ratios may be permitted for buildings which will comprise a unified
commercial, industrial, or mixed-use development in the C or M zones citywide
or in the R5 zone within the Central City Community Plan Area, even if
buildings on each individual parcel or lot would exceed the permitted floor
area ratio.  However, the floor area ratio for the unified development, when
calculated as a whole, may not exceed the maximum permitted floor area ratio
for the height district(s) in which the unified development is located.



 



   (b)   Residential Density Transfer.  The transfer of residential
density may be permitted for buildings which will comprise a unified
mixed-use development in the C zones citywide or in the R5 zone within the
Central City Community Plan Area, even if buildings on each individual parcel
or lot would exceed the permitted density.  However, the number of all
dwelling units and guest rooms for the unified development, when calculated
as a whole, may not exceed the maximum number permitted based on the minimum
lot area per dwelling unit and guest room standards set forth in the zone(s)
in which the unified development is located.



 



   (c)   Definition.  A unified development for purposes of this
subdivision shall mean a development which is:



 



   (1)   a combination of functional linkages, such as pedestrian or
vehicular connections;



 



   (2)   in conjunction with common architectural and landscape
features, which constitute distinctive design elements of the development;



 



   (3)   is composed of two or more contiguous parcels, or lots of
record separated only by a street or alley; and



 



   (4)   when the development is viewed from adjoining streets appears
to be a consolidated whole.



 



   (d)   Finding.  In addition to the findings otherwise required by
this section, before granting an approval, the Zoning Administrator shall
find that the development, although located on separate parcels or lots of
record, is a unified development as defined by this subdivision.



 



   (e)   Procedures.  In addition to the requirements of subsection A.
through Q. of this section, all persons with an ownership interest in the
property requesting floor area ratio averaging, residential density transfer,
or both, and all persons with mortgage interests, including those persons
holding ground leases, must sign the application.  A current title search
shall be submitted with the application to ensure that all persons with an
ownership interest in the property have signed the application.



 



   (f)   Covenant.  If the Zoning Administrator approves the floor
area ratio averaging or residential density transfer, then the applicants
shall file a covenant running with the land with the Department of Building
and Safety prior to the issuance of any building permits:



 



   (1)   guaranteeing to continue the operation and maintenance of the
development as a unified development;



 



   (2)   indicating the floor area and, if applicable, density used on
each parcel and the floor area and, if applicable, density potential, if any,
that would remain;



 



   (3)   guaranteeing the continued maintenance of the unifying design
elements; and



 



   (4)   specifying an individual or entity to be responsible and
accountable for this maintenance and the fee for the annual inspection of
compliance by the Department of Building and Safety, required pursuant to
Section 19.11.



 



   20.   Foundries in the MR1 Zone.



 



   21.   Fraternity or sorority houses in the A, R1, RU, RZ, RMP, RW1,
R2, RD, RW2 or R3 Zones.



 



   22.   Garbage, fat, offal, or dead animal reduction, or renderingin
the M3 Zone, provided the site is located at least 500 feet from a more
restrictive zone.



 



   23.   Heliport incidental to an office building, hospital or
residential use.



 



   24.   Hotels.  (Amended by Ord. No. 185,931, Eff. 7/1/19.)



 



   (a)   Hotels (including motels), apartment hotels, or hostels in the
CR, C1, C1.5, C2, C4, and C5 Zones when any portion of a structure proposed
to be used as a hotel (including a motel), apartment hotel, or hostel is
located within 500 feet of any A or R Zone.



 



   (b)   Hotels (including motels), apartment hotels, or hostels, in
the M1, M2 and M3 Zones when more than half of the lot on which the use is
located is in the CR, C1, C1.5, C2, C4, C5 or CM Zones.  In approving a
request for a use in the M1, M2 and M3 Zones, the Zoning Administrator, in
addition to the findings otherwise required by this section, shall also find
that approval will not displace viable industrial uses.



 



   (c)   Hotels, motels or apartment hotels, in the R4 or R5 Zones,
unless expressly permitted by Sections 12.11 or 12.12.  In the R5 Zone,
incidental business may be conducted, but only as a service to persons living
there, and provided that the business is conducted within the main building,
that the entrance to the business is from the inside of the building and that
no sign advertising the business is visible from outside the building.  If
the proposed use is to be established by the conversion of an existing
residential use, then a relocation assistance plan shall be drawn up and
approved in a manner consistent with Section 12.95.2 G.



 



   (d)   Hotels and motels in the M1 and M2 Zones when expressly
permitted by the applicable community or district plan.



 



   (e)   Transient Occupancy Residential Structures in the R4 and R5
zones as well as the CR, C1, C1.5, C2, C4, and C5 Zones.  Approval of a
partial or complete conversion from another residential use to a Transient
Occupancy Residential Structure under this paragraph shall not be permitted.



 



   25.   Kennels or facilities for breeding and boarding of animals (no
outside keeping of animals - no open runs) in the M Zones where any portion
of the parcel is located within 500 feet of any residential zone.



 



   26.   Miniature or pitch and putt golf courses, golf driving tees or
ranges, and similar commercial golf uses, in the A, R, or C1 Zones.



 



   27.   Mini-Shopping Centers in the C, M1, M2, or M3 Zones and
Commercial Corner Developments in any C or M zone, the lot line of which
adjoins, is separated only by an alley, or is located across the street from
any portion of a lot zoned A or R which:  (1) contain a commercial use not
otherwise subject to conditional use approval which operates between the
hours of 11 p.m. and 7 a.m.; (2) contain an amusement enterprise as
enumerated in Section 12.14 A.3. of this Code; (3) contain an automobile
laundry or wash rack; and/or (4) do not comply with the requirements and
conditions enumerated in Section 12.22 A.23. of this Code.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 175,223, Eff. 6/30/03.) 



 



   (a)   Standards.  In making a determination on an application for a
conditional use filed pursuant to this subdivision, a Zoning Administrator
may consider the provisions of Section 12.22 A.23. as establishing minimum
standards for the approval of a Mini-Shopping Center or Commercial Corner
Development, provided, however, that no building or structure shall exceed
the height requirements set forth in Section 12.22 A.23.(a)(1).



 



   (b)   Findings.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,095, Eff. 5/7/12.)  In
addition to the findings set forth in 12.24 E., the Zoning Administrator
shall find:



 



   (1)   that based on data provided by the City Department of
Transportation or by a licensed traffic engineer, that ingress to and egress
from the project will not create a traffic hazard or cause significant
traffic congestion or disruption of vehicular circulation on adjacent
streets; and



 



   (2)   that project approval will not create or add to a detrimental
concentration of Mini-Shopping Centers or Commercial Corner Developments in
the vicinity of the proposed project.



 



   28.   Two or more development incentives pursuant to Section 13.09
E.4. for a Mixed Use Project in a Mixed Use District.  In addition to the
findings set forth in Section 12.24 E., the Zoning Administrator shall find
that the project provides for an arrangement of uses, buildings, structures,
open spaces and other improvements that are compatible with the scale and
character of the adjacent properties and surrounding neighborhood.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 182,095, Eff. 5/7/12.)



 



   29.   Mortuaries or funeral parlors in the C2, C4, C5, CM or M1
Zones.



 



   30.   Nightclubs or other establishments offering dancing or live
entertainment in conjunction with a restaurant within the area governed by
the Westwood Village Specific Plan.



 



   31.   Nurseries, including accessory buildings, necessary only for
the growing of flowers, shrubs and trees, but not including any store or
office building nor any retail sales on the premises, in the R, C1 and C1.5
Zones.



 



   32.   Outdoor eating areas for ground floor restaurants in the CR,
C1, and C1.5 Zones if not permitted by right.



 



   33.   Pawnshops in the C2, C5, CM, M1, M2 and M3 Zones.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 182,095, Eff. 5/7/12.)



 



   34.   Penny arcades containing five or more coin or slug- operated
or electrically, electronically or mechanically controlled game machines in
the C2, C5, CM, M1, M2 or M3 Zones.



 



   35.   Private clubs in the A, R1, RU, RZ, RMP, RW1, R2, RD, RW2, R3
or R4 Zones.



 



   36.   Professional uses in the R4 or R5 Zones, provided the property
fronts a major or secondary highway as these highways are shown on the
Highways and Freeways Element of the General Plan, and provided further that
these uses shall be conducted within a one or two-family dwelling, the
residential character of which shall not be changed, and that no signs shall
be permitted other than those specifically allowed in the zone or by a Zoning
Administrator.



 



   37.   Public parking areas in the A or R Zones.



 



   38.   Reduced on-site parking for Senior Independent Housing,
Assisted Living Care Housing, and/or a Housing Development Occupied By
Disabled Persons in the RD, R3, RAS3, R4, RAS4, or R5 Zones, CR, C1, C1.5,
C2, C4 or C5 Zones, provided that:  (Amended by Ord. No. 178,063, Eff.
12/30/06.)



 



   (a)   For purposes of this subdivision, a disabled person is a
person who has: (a) physical or mental disabilities, which seriously
restricts that person from operating a motor vehicle; (b) is expected to be
of long, continued and indefinite duration; (c) substantially impedes his or
her ability to live independently; and (d) is of a nature that the ability to
live independently could be improved by more suitable housing conditions.



 



   (b)   Parking spaces may be reduced to 25 percent of the number
otherwise required by Section 12.21 A.4.(u).



 



   (c)   The reduced number of parking spaces provided for each
development shall be determined by a Zoning Administrator on the basis of:



 



   (1)   anticipated parking needs of occupants, employees and
visitors; and



 



   (2)   availability of public transit; and



 



   (3)   access from the site to medical facilities, shopping,
commercial services and community facilities.



 



   (d)   Each application for reduction of parking spaces shall be
referred promptly for review to the Councilmember of the district in which
the property is located.



 



   (e)   When a reduction of parking spaces is approved, the owner of
the land shall furnish and record an agreement in the Office of the County
Recorder of Los Angeles County, California, as a covenant running with the
land for the benefit of the City of Los Angeles, providing that, should the
use change, the owner will develop the parking spaces to meet the
requirements of Sections 12.21 A.4. and 5.



 



   39.   The rental, storage or storage for rental purposes of
household moving rental trucks and utility rental trailers including those
which exceed a registered net weight of 5,600 pounds in the C2, C5, CM and
MR1 Zones.  When acting on an application, a Zoning Administrator shall
consider, among other criteria, the following:



 



   (a)   that its operation would provide an essential service or
retail convenience to the immediate residential neighborhood or a benefit to
the community; and



 



   (b)   that its operation will be reasonably compatible with and not
be detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to the improvements and use
of adjacent properties.



 



   40.   Restaurant (including cafe) for the use of the general public
in the MR1 and MR2 Zones.



 



   41.   The sale of firearms and/or ammunition in the C1, C1.5, C2,
C4, C5, CM, M1, M2 and M3 Zones.  In addition to the findings otherwise
required by this section, the Zoning Administrator shall also consider
whether the proposed use will result in an over-concentration of this use in
the area, and the number of firearms available for sale at the site.



 



   42.   The sale of merchandise:



 



   (a)   From a privately owned vacant lot in the C1, C2, M2, and M3
Zones in the open;



 



   (b)   From a drive-in theater in the M2 and M3 Zones in the open; or



 



   (c)   At an indoor swap meet in the C1, C1.5, C2, C4, C5, M1, M2,
and M3 Zones.  For purposes of this paragraph, the following definitions
shall apply:



 



   (1)   “Indoor swap meet” shall mean any event where new or
secondhand goods are offered or displayed for sale or exchange by ten  or
more independent vendors within a completely enclosed building.  An
independent swap meet vendor is any individual, partnership, corporation,
business association or other person or entity who is not an employee of the
owner or lessee of the subject building; and



 



   (i)   A fee is charged by a swap meet operator for the privilege of
offering or displaying new or secondhand goods for sale or exchange; or



 



   (ii)   A fee is charged to prospective buyers for admission to the
area where new or secondhand goods are offered or displayed for sale or
exchange.



 



   (2)   “Mini-shopping center” shall mean any development,



 



   (i)   with a lot area of less than forty-five thousand square feet,
used for two or more retail sales, services or restaurants, or their
combination;



 



   (ii)   with the structure or structures located in close proximity
to the rear lot line and/or side lot line, and



 



   (iii)   with surface parking situated between the structure or
structures and the street.



 



   (3)   A “shopping center” or “industrial center” is defined
as a unit group of buildings used for commercial and/or industrial purposes
together with open space and vehicle parking areas where the occupants of the
buildings and their customers have a joint right to use the open space and
vehicle parking areas.



 



   EXCEPTIONS:



 



   The provisions of this subdivision shall not apply to a retail store or
shop in a “mini-shopping center”, in a “shopping center” or in an
“industrial center” as defined in Subparagraphs (2) and (3) above, unless
that store or shop is being used as the location of an indoor swap meet as
defined in Subparagraph (1) above.



 



   43.   (Deleted by Ord. No. 186,481, Eff. 12/19/19.)



 



   44.   (Deleted by Ord. No. 186,481, Eff. 12/19/19.)



 



   45.   Stand for display or sale of agricultural and farm products
raised or produced on the same premises in the RA Zone.



 



   46.   Swine keeping, more than five, in the A1 Zone, and swine
keeping in the A2 and RA Zones.



 



   47.   Temporary geological exploratory core holes in all zones
except the M3 Zone.  The Zoning Administrator may approve the use of a site
for a period of time deemed necessary to drill, test and abandon temporary
geological exploratory core hole(s) provided that the time period may not
exceed 200 days unless the Zoning Administrator finds that the drilling
activities cannot be completed within 200 days due to depth, or deviation, or
number of temporary geological exploratory core hole(s) to be drilled. 
However, in no event shall the Zoning Administrator increase the time period
beyond 200 days by more than an additional 165 days.



 



   48.   Temporary storage of abandoned, partially dismantled, obsolete
or wrecked automobiles (not including the dismantling or wrecking of
automobiles or the storage or sale of used parts) in the C2, C4, C5, CM, MR1,
or M1 Zones.



 



   49.   (Amended by Ord. No. 177,120, Eff. 12/26/05.)  Wireless
telecommunication facilities, including radio and television transmitters
citywide, other than wireless antennas and associated equipment cabinets on
the rooftops of buildings in the C and M Zones, including geographic specific
plan areas, which conform to the provisions of Section 12.21 A.21. of this
Code:



 



   (a)   In all zones, except the M1, M2 or M3 Zones;



 



   (b)   In the M1, M2, or M3 Zones when the property containing the
facility is located across the street from, abutting, or adjoining a
residential use or A or R Zone, including the RA Zone, and/or if the facility
cannot meet the Wireless Telecommunication Facilities standards contained in
Section 12.21 A.20. of this Code;



 



   (c)    In geographic specific plan areas, except for those located
within scenic corridors, scenic parkway specific plan areas or upon roadways
designated as scenic highways within specific plan areas, which shall all be
subject to a Specific Plan Exception pursuant to Section 11.5.7 F. of this
Code; and



 



   (d)   On the rooftops of buildings which are designated on the
National Register of Historic Places, including Contributing Buildings in
National Register Historic Districts, the California Register of Historic
Resources, the City of Los Angeles List of Historic-Cultural Monuments, or a
Contributing Structure located in an Historic Preservation Overlay Zone
(HPOZ) that has been established pursuant to Section 12.20.3.



 



   (e)   Findings.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,095, Eff. 5/7/12.)  In
addition to the findings set forth in Section 12.24 E., the Zoning
Administrator shall consider and balance the benefit of the project to the
public with the facility's technological constraints, design, and location,
as well as other relevant factors, and in doing so find that the project is
consistent with the general requirements of the Wireless Telecommunication
Facilities Standards set forth in Section 12.21 A.20. of this Code.



 



   50.   Storage buildings for household goods, including truck
rentals, in the C2, C5 and CM Zones; and in the M1, M2 and M3 Zones when
within 500 or fewer feet from an A or R Zone or residential use, as measured
from the external lot line closest to the A or R Zone.  In addition to the
findings set forth in Section 12.24 E., the Zoning Administrator shall find
that the project provides for an arrangement of uses, buildings, structures,
open spaces and other improvements that are compatible with the scale and
character of the adjacent properties and surrounding neighborhood.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 182,095, Eff. 5/7/12.)



 



   51.   Child care facilities or nursery schools in the A, RE, RS, R1,
RU, RZ, RMP, RW, R2, R3, RAS3, or RD Zones, and in the CM and M Zones when
providing care primarily for children of employees of businesses/industries
in the vicinity.  (Added by Ord. No. 176,545, Eff. 5/2/05.)



 



   52.   Project(s) in Neighborhood Stabilization Overlay (NSO)
Districts in the R2, RD, R3, RAS, R4, R5, CR, C1, C1.5, C2, C4 C5, or CM
zones that create at least one dwelling unit with five or more habitable
rooms.  (Added by Ord. No. 180,219, Eff. 11/16/08.)



 



   (a)   Findings.  In addition to the findings otherwise required
under this section relating to Conditional Use Permits, and the requirements
of Section 12.21 A.4.(a) of this Code relating to Off-Street Automobile
Parking, the Zoning Administrator shall make the following findings:



 



   (1)   That the Project provides additional on-site parking under
Section 13.12 C.2. of this Code;



 



   (2)   That there is no detrimental concentration of large scale,
campus serving housing within a one-thousand-foot radius of the proposed
Project; and



 



   (3)   That the Project conforms to any applicable Historic
Preservation Overlay Zone (HPOZ) or Specific Plan.



 



   53.   Structures solely supporting solar energy systems not
otherwise permitted.  A Zoning Administrator may, upon application, permit
structures that solely support solar energy systems that deviate from any
regulation in the zoning code, such as height, lot coverage, and location. 
(Added by Ord. No. 182,110, Eff. 5/29/12.)



 



   X.   Further Authority of the Zoning Administrator for Other Similar
Quasi-Judicial Approvals.  The following uses and activities may be
permitted in any zone, unless otherwise restricted to certain zones or
locations, if approved by the Zoning Administrator as the initial
decision-maker or the Area Planning Commission as the appellate body.  In
addition to the findings set forth in Section 12.24 E., the Zoning
Administrator shall make all applicable findings set forth below.  Further,
these uses and activities are subject to the procedures, regulations and
limitations set forth below.  (Para. Amended by Ord. No. 182,095, Eff.
5/7/12.)



 



   1.   Adaptive Reuse Projects.  (Amended by Ord. No. 175,588, Eff.
12/1/03.)  A Zoning Administrator may, upon application, permit Adaptive
Reuse Projects pursuant to this subdivision.  Except that, the provisions of
this subdivision shall not apply to those areas set forth in the Adaptive
Reuse Incentive Areas Specific Plan, Ordinance No. 175,038.  Furthermore,
the provisions of this subdivision shall not apply to the M Zones outside the
Downtown Project Area.  The boundaries of the Downtown Project Area are
described in Section 12.22 A.26.(g) of the Code.



 



   In conformance with Paragraph (b) below, the Zoning Administrator may
permit Adaptive Reuse Projects in the M Zones inside the Downtown Project
Area. Outside the Downtown Project Area, the Zoning Administrator may permit
Adaptive Reuse Projects in the C and R5 Zones.



 



   In conformance with Paragraph (c) below, the Zoning Administrator may 
permit Adaptive Reuse Projects in the C and R5 Zones in all or any portion of
a building constructed on or after July 1, 1974, inside the Downtown Project
Area.



 



   In conformance with Paragraph (d) below, the Zoning Administrator may
permit floor area averaging in unified Adaptive Reuse Projects in the C, M
and R5 Zones inside the Downtown Project Area.  Outside the Downtown Project
Area, the Zoning Administrator may permit this floor area averaging in the C
and R5 Zones.



 



   (a)   Definitions.  The definition of “Adaptive Reuse Project”
set forth in Section 12.22 A.26.(c) of the Code shall apply inside the
Downtown Project Area. Outside the Downtown Project Area, the following
definitions shall apply:



 



   Adaptive Reuse Project is any change of an existing Non-Residential Use
to new dwelling units, guest rooms, or joint living and work quarters in all
or any portion of any eligible building.



 



   Non-Residential Use means any use other than dwelling units, guest
rooms, or joint living and work quarters.  Except that, if all the dwelling
units, guest rooms or joint living and work quarters in an eligible building
were completely and continuously unoccupied from March 1, 2002, through and
including the date an application for an Adaptive Reuse Project is filed
pursuant to this subdivision, then those units, rooms or quarters shall be
considered to be a Non- Residential Use.



 



   (b)   C, M and R5 Zones.  The following shall apply to Adaptive
Reuse Projects in the MR1, MR2, M1, M2 and M3 Zones inside the Downtown
Project Area; and to Projects in the CR, C1, C1.5, C2, C4, C5, CM and R5
Zones outside the Downtown Project Area:



 



   (1)   Eligible Buildings.  A Zoning Administrator shall only permit
Adaptive Reuse Projects in the following buildings:



 



   (i)   Buildings constructed in accordance with building and zoning
codes in effect prior to July 1, 1974.  A Certificate of Occupancy, building
permit, or other suitable documentation may be submitted as evidence to
verify the date of construction.



 



   (ii)   Buildings constructed in accordance with building and zoning
codes in effect on or after July 1, 1974, if:  five years have elapsed since
the date of issuance of final Certificates of Occupancy; and the Zoning
Administrator finds that the building is no longer economically viable in its
current use or uses.



 



   In making this finding, the Zoning Administrator shall consider the
building’s past and current vacancy rate, existing and previous uses, and
real estate market information.  The Zoning Administrator may require the
applicant to submit independently verified documentation.



 



   (iii)   Buildings designated on the National Register of Historic
Places, the California Register of Historical Resources, or the City of Los
Angeles List of Historic-Cultural Monuments.  Contributing Buildings in
National Register Historic Districts or Contributing Structures in Historic
Preservation Overlay Zones (HPOZ) established pursuant to Section 12.20.3 of
this Code are also eligible buildings.



 



   (2)   Incentives and Exceptions.  The Zoning Administrator may
grant, modify or deny some or all of the incentives set forth in Section
12.22  A.26.(h), or some or all of the exceptions set forth in Section 12.22
A.26.(j), to Adaptive Reuse Projects proposed pursuant to this subdivision.
Furthermore, the Zoning Administrator shall have the authority to grant any
other incentives or exceptions from the Code required to permit Adaptive
Reuse Projects proposed pursuant to this subdivision, including but not
limited to the authority to permit dwelling units, guest rooms and joint
living and work quarters in Adaptive Reuse Projects, notwithstanding the
nonconforming provisions of Section 12.23 of the Code.



 



   (3)   Findings and Conditions for the C and R5 Zones.  If the
Adaptive Reuse Project is in the CR, C1, C1.5, C2, C4, C5, CM or R5 Zones
outside the Downtown Project Area, then the Zoning Administrator shall find
that the Adaptive Reuse Project complies with the standards for dwelling
units, guest rooms and joint living and work quarters set forth in Section
12.22 A.26.(i).  Exception:  This finding is not required if the Zoning
Administrator does not grant the density incentive set forth in Section 12.22
A.26.(h)(2).



 



   Before approving a reduced parking incentive pursuant to Subparagraph
(2) above, the Zoning Administrator shall also find that the surrounding area
will not be adversely affected by overflow parking or traffic congestion
originating or terminating at the site of the Adaptive Reuse Project.



 



   (4)   Findings and Conditions for the M Zones.  If the Adaptive
Reuse Project is in the MR1, MR2, M1, M2 or M3 Zones inside the Downtown
Project Area, then the Zoning Administrator shall:



 



   (i)   Require that one or more signs or symbols of a size and design
approved by the Fire Department are placed by the applicant at designated
locations on the exterior of each Adaptive Reuse Project to indicate the
presence of residential uses;



 



   (ii)   Limit the occupations permitted in joint living and work
quarters to the following:  accountants; architects; artists and artisans;
attorneys; computer software and multimedia related professionals;
consultants; engineers; fashion, graphic, interior and other designers;
insurance, real estate and travel agents; photographers and similar
occupations;



 



   (iii)   Find that the Adaptive Reuse Project complies with the
standards for dwelling units, guest rooms, and joint living and work quarters
set forth in Section 12.22 A.26.(i);



 



   (iv)   Find that the uses of property surrounding the proposed
location of the Adaptive Reuse Project will not be detrimental to the safety
and welfare of prospective residents; and



 



   (v)   Find that the Adaptive Reuse Project will not displace viable
industrial uses.



 



   (c)   Buildings constructed on or after July 1, 1974.  The
provisions of Section 12.22 A.26. shall apply to Adaptive Reuse Projects in
all or any portion of a building constructed on or after July 1, 1974, in the
CR, C1, C1.5, C2, C4, C5, CM, or R5 Zones inside the Downtown Project Area
if:  five years have elapsed since the date of issuance of final
Certificates of Occupancy; and a Zoning Administrator finds that the building
is no longer economically viable in its current use or uses.



 



   In making this finding, the Zoning Administrator shall consider the
building’s past and current vacancy rate, existing and previous uses, and
real estate market information.  The Zoning Administrator may require the
applicant to submit independently verified documentation.



 



   (d)   Floor Area Averaging.  The following shall apply to
applications to permit floor area averaging in unified Adaptive Reuse
Projects in the CR, C1, C1.5, C2, C4, C5, CM, MR1, MR2, M1, M2, M3, or R5
Zones inside the Downtown Project Area; and to such applications in the CR,
C1, C1.5, C2, C4, C5, CM, or R5 Zones outside the Downtown Project Area.



 



   The Zoning Administrator may permit averaging of floor area in unified
Adaptive Reuse Projects for purposes of determining compliance with the 750
square foot minimum average unit size standard for dwelling units and joint
living and work quarters, as set forth in Section 12.22 A.26.(i).  For
purposes of this subdivision, a unified Adaptive Reuse Project means an
Adaptive Reuse Project composed of two or more buildings, so long as the
Project has all of the following characteristics:  (a) functional linkages,
such as pedestrian or vehicular connections; (b) common architectural and
landscape features, which constitute distinctive design elements of the
Project; and (c) a unified appearance when viewed from adjoining streets. 
Unified Adaptive Reuse Projects may include lots that abut or are separated
only by an alley or are located across the street from any portion of each
other.



 



   Individual buildings may fall below the minimum average unit size
standard, so long as the average size of all the dwelling units and joint
living and work quarters in the unified Adaptive Reuse Project is at least
750 square feet, and no dwelling unit or joint living and work quarters is
less than 450 square feet in area.  The Zoning Administrator shall determine
whether a Project meets the definition of a unified Adaptive Reuse Project as
set forth above.  All owners of the property requesting floor area averaging
must sign the application.  A current title search shall be submitted with
the application to insure that all required persons have signed the
application.



 



   If the Zoning Administrator approves the floor area averaging, then all
owners of the property requesting floor area averaging and all owners of each
lot contained in the unified Adaptive Reuse Project shall execute and record
an affidavit.  A copy of each executed and recorded affidavit shall be filed
with the Office of Zoning Administration.  Each affidavit shall run with the
land, be approved by the Zoning Administrator prior to the issuance of any
building permits, and shall guarantee the following: (1) The use of any floor
area converted to dwelling units or joint living and work quarters shall be
maintained and not changed; and (2) The number of these units or quarters
approved by the Zoning Administrator shall not be increased.



 



   (e)   Procedures.  An application for permission pursuant to this
subdivision shall follow the procedures for adjustments set forth in Section
12.28 C.1., 2., and 3.  However, the Zoning Administrator may waive the
public hearing required in that section if the owners of all properties
abutting, across the street or alley from, or having a common corner with the
building have expressed in writing no objections to the Adaptive Reuse
Project.



 



   2.   Alcoholic Beverages.  A Zoning Administrator may, upon
application, permit a restaurant, with seating on the premises for no more
than 50 persons, to offer for sale or to dispense for consideration alcoholic
beverages, including beer and wine, incidental to meal service.



 



   (a)   Procedures. An application for permission pursuant to this
subdivision shall follow the procedures for variances set forth in Section
12.27 C. except to the extent an additional appeal is permitted to City
Council.  If, however, the applicant submits with its application the
written approval of owners of all properties abutting, across the street or
alley from, or having a common corner with the subject corner, then the
matter does not have to be set for public hearing.



 



   (b)   Findings.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,095, Eff. 5/7/12.)  In
addition to the findings set forth in Section 12.24 E., the Zoning
Administrator shall also find:



 



   (1)   that the restaurant contains a kitchen as defined in Section
12.03;



 



   (2)   that the primary use of the restaurant premises is for
sit-down service to patrons;



 



   (3)   that any take-out service is only incidental to the primary
sit-down use;



 



   (4)   that the restaurant is not located within 600 feet of a
hospital, church, school (including day-care center), public park or
playground, or youth facility; and



 



   (5)   that the hours of operation will not adversely affect the
surrounding neighborhood.



 



   (c)   Conditions.  The Zoning Administrator may impose any
conditions necessary to assure that the premises continue to operate in a
manner consistent with the findings.  In addition, any application approved
pursuant to this subdivision shall be subject to the following conditions and
restrictions:



 



   (1)   Alcoholic beverages, including beer and wine, may be sold or
dispensed for consideration for consumption on the premises only, and only
when served at tables or sit-down counters by employees of the restaurant.



 



   EXCEPTION:



 



   However, beer and wine may be sold or dispensed for consideration for
consumption beyond the premises in a delicatessen (which is a restaurant
having regular take-out service of prepared and unprepared foods), if and
only if the sit-down food and beverage service area of the delicatessen
occupies in excess of 50 percent of the floor area of the premises (exclusive
of the kitchen, restroom, storage and utility areas);



 



   (2)   Dancing or live entertainment shall not be permitted on the
premises;



 



   (3)   A separate cocktail lounge or bar shall not be located on the
premises;



 



   (4)   Alcoholic beverages or beer or wine shall not be served in
conjunction with the operation of any billiard or pool hall, bowling alley,
or adult entertainment business as defined in Section 12.70; and



 



   (5)   Alcoholic beverages shall not be sold, dispensed, or allowed
to be consumed on the premises between the hours of midnight and 6 o’clock
a.m.



 



   3.   Antennas.  A Zoning Administrator may, upon application,
permit amateur radio transmission and receiving antennas on lots in A and R
Zones which exceed the maximum height otherwise permitted by the provisions
of Section 12.21.1.



 



   (a)   Application.  The application shall include a plot plan, an
elevation plan indicating the location and height of the proposed antenna and
measures designed to minimize any adverse visual impacts from the antenna. 
These measures may include the construction of a retractable antenna,
screening, painting or increased setbacks from property lines.  Notice of
the application shall be given to the Fire Department.



 



   (b)   Procedures.  An application for permission pursuant to this
subdivision shall follow the procedures for adjustments set forth in Section
12.28 C.1., 2. and 3.  The Zoning Administrator may waive the public hearing
required in that section if the applicant submits with the application the
written approval of owners of all properties abutting, across the street or
alley from, or having a common corner with the subject property.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 173,992, Eff. 7/6/01.)



 



   (c)   Findings.  In addition to the findings otherwise required by
this section, the Zoning Administrator shall also consider the uses to which
the proposed antenna will be put, and may give special consideration to an
application involving public service uses, such as participation in a radio
amateur emergency network or



 



   4.   (Repealed by Ord. No. 178,382, Eff. 3/24/07.)



 



   5.   Dwelling Adjacent to an Equinekeeping Use.



 



   (a)   Notwithstanding any provision of this Code to the contrary,
the Zoning Administrator shall determine that the City may issue a building
permit for any residential building which has a habitable room closer than 35
feet from a legally established equine use, if the Zoning Administrator
determines that the residential building cannot reasonably be constructed at
a location 35 feet or greater from a legally established equine use.  This
determination may be made after giving consideration to:



 



   (1)   Size and configuration of land parcel;



 



   (2)   Environmental conditions, including but not limited to
topography, geology, drainage and soil;



   (3)   Public facilities and easements that restrict buildable area
location;



 



   (4)   Economic hardship; and



 



   (5)   Feasibility of relocating the equine enclosure.



 



   (b)   Procedures.  An application for permission pursuant to this
subdivision shall follow the procedures for adjustments set forth in Section
12.28 C.1., 2. and 3.  However, notice of the pending application and of the
hearing shall be given by mailing of notice at least five days prior to the
date of the hearing to the owners of all property contiguous to the property
involved in the application using for this purpose the last known name and
address of those property owners as shown upon the records of the City
Engineer or the records of the County Assessor.  Provided, however, that if
the owners of all the private property contiguous to the property involved in
the application sign a waiver of having a public hearing, then no notice or
hearing shall be required.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,595, Eff. 4/10/11.)



 



   6.   Certified Farmers' Markets.  (Amended by Ord. No. 185,514,
Eff. 6/4/18.)  A Zoning Administrator may, upon application, permit the
operation of a Certified Farmers' Market, as defined in Section 1392.2, Title
3, of the California Code of Regulations as that section may be amended from
time to time, on any lot in an R Zone subject to the following:



 



   (a)   Application.  A copy of each application shall be provided to
the Councilmember of the district in which the property is located.  A
Zoning Administrator shall approve an application only if all the following
requirements are met:



 



   (1)   The operation is conducted by one or more certified producers,
by a nonprofit organization or by a local government agency;



 



   (2)   If selling fruits, nuts or vegetables, the producer is
authorized by the County Agricultural Commissioner to sell directly to
consumers these products that are produced upon the land which the certified
producer farms and owns, rents, leases or sharecrops; and



 



   (3)   If selling eggs, honey, fish, and other seafood and freshwater
products, live plants and other agricultural products, the market operator
and producer secure all necessary licenses, certificates and health permits
which are required to sell these products directly to consumers, provided
these products are raised, grown or caught and processed, if necessary, in
California.



 



   (b)   Procedures.  A permit application pursuant to this
subdivision shall follow the procedures for adjustments set forth in Section
12.28 C.1., 2. and 3. of this Code.  A hearing is not required if the
applicant submits with its application the written approval of the owners of
all abutting properties, including properties across the street or alley from
or having a common corner with the subject property, and the written approval
of 60 percent of the owners of properties within a radius of 300 feet of the
subject property.



 



   (c)   Requirements.



 



   (1)   All market activities shall be conducted only between the
hours of 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m., except that necessary preparation of the
site for sales activities and cleanup may be conducted for not more than one
hour before and one hour after this period.  No Certified Farmers' Market
may operate more than twice in the same week;



 



   (2)   Any light used during market activities shall be shielded so
as not to shine directly or indirectly on adjacent property or streets;



 



   (3)   The operator of a Certified Farmers' Market shall provide
trash containers during the hours of operation;



 



   (4)   Signs advertising the market shall conform to Article 4.4 of
this Code;



 



   (5)   The noise level of any activity related to a Certified
Farmers' Market, including noise resulting from the use of amplified sound
equipment, shall not exceed the ambient noise levels applicable to an R Zone
as set forth in Section 111.03 of the Municipal Code;



 



   (6)   Any portion of the lot used for market activities shall be
cleaned at the close of hours of operation.  For purposes of this section
only, "cleaned" shall include, but not be limited to, the removal of stalls,
materials, debris, trash, etc., used in conjunction with market activities;



 



   (7)   The operator of a Certified Farmers' Market shall maintain a
list of vendors participating in the Certified Farmers' Market during the day
of operation;



 



   (8)   Certification of the Certified Farmers' Market and contact
information for the operator shall be posted at the main entry and provided
as part of the application.  The contact person shall be available during
the hours of operation and shall respond to any complaints.  The operator
shall keep a log of complaints with the date and time received, and their
disposition; and



 



   (9)   Electronic Benefit Transfer (EBT) Card payments shall be
accepted at the Certified Farmers' Market.  A Food and Nutrition Service
(FNS) Number issued by the United States Department of Agriculture shall be
provided on the application as proof of EBT card acceptance.



 



   (d)   Violations.  The Zoning Administrator may consider revoking
the grant for failure to maintain the site in a satisfactory manner or
failure to comply with the requirements above.



 



   7.   Fences or Walls in A or R Zones.



 



   (a)   A Zoning Administrator may, upon application, permit fences,
walls or gates not to exceed eight feet in height, including light fixtures,
in the required front yard, side yard or rear yard of any lot or on the side
lot line along the street of a reversed corner lot in the A and R Zones.



 



   (b)   Procedures. (Amended by Ord. No. 173,992, Eff. 7/6/01.)  An
application for permission pursuant to this subdivision shall follow the
procedures for adjustments set forth in Section 12.28 C.1., 2. and 3.  A
public hearing may not be required if the applicant submits with the
application the written approval of the owners of all properties abutting,
across the street or alley from, or having a common corner with the subject
property.  However, for requests for fences in the required front yard,
(except for game court fences) only the written approval of the owners of
properties abutting on the side or across the street from the subject
property need be submitted.



 



   (c)   Findings.  In addition to the findings otherwise required by
this section, the Zoning Administrator shall consider the environmental
effects and appropriateness of materials, design and location of any proposed
fence or wall, including any detrimental effects on the view which may be
enjoyed by the occupants of adjoining properties, and security to the subject
property which the fence or wall would provide.



 



   8.   Fences within 1,000 Feet of Public Beach.



 



   (a)   A Zoning Administrator may, upon application, permit fences,
walls or hedges, not exceeding six feet in height, in the required front
yards of lots within groups of lots, provided all of the lots within a group
are in an R Zone and are within 1,000 feet of a public beach, and further
provided, that all of the lots are affected by the problems of lack of
privacy, dogs being released upon the property by persons utilizing the
public beaches, or refuse being strewn upon the property by persons utilizing
the public beaches.



 



   (b)  Procedures.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,992, Eff. 7/6/01.)  An
application for permission pursuant to this subdivision shall follow the
procedures for adjustments set forth in Section 12.28 C.1., 2. and 3.  A
public hearing may not be required if the applicant submits with the
application the written approval of the owners of all properties abutting,
across the street or alley from, or having a common corner with the subject
property.  However, for requests for fences in the required front yard,
(except for game court fences) only the written approval of the owners of
properties abutting on the side or across the street from the subject
property need be submitted.



 



   9.   Foster Care Homes.  Notwithstanding any other provision of
this chapter, any person may, with the express written permission of a Zoning
Administrator and subject to the following limitations, use a dwelling unit
for the operation of:



 



   (a)   A foster care home occupied by a total of five or six children
in the A, R, CR, C1 or C1.5 Zones; provided that the total number of persons
(including servants) living in any dwelling unit used as a foster care home
shall not exceed eight; or



 



   (b)   Limitations.



 



   (1)   The floor space of any dwelling unit used as a foster care
home shall not be increased for that use and the floor space shall not be
arranged so that it would reasonably preclude the use of the buildings for
purposes otherwise permitted in the zone in which the property is located.



 



   (2)   No permission for the operation of a foster care home shall
become valid unless it is licensed for foster care use by the State of
California, or other agency designated by the State, and the operation shall
not be valid for more than one year.



 



   (c)   Procedures.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,992, Eff. 7/6/01.)  An
application for permission pursuant to this subdivision shall follow the
procedures for adjustments set forth in Section 12.28 C.1., 2. and 3.



 



   10.   Height and Reduced Side Yards.  A Zoning Administrator may,
upon application, permit buildings and structures on a lot or group of lots
in the RA, RE20, RE15, RE11, RE9, RS, R1 and R2 Zones where the lot is not
located in a Hillside Area or Coastal Zone, to exceed the maximum height or
number of stories otherwise permitted by the provisions of Section 12.21.1;
or to reduce the required side yards otherwise required in this Code.



 



   (a)   Findings for Height.  In addition to the findings otherwise
required by this section, a Zoning Administrator shall find:



 



   (1)   that the increase in height shall not result in a building or
structure that exceeds an overall height of 45 feet;



 



   (2)   that the increased height will result in a building or
structure which is compatible in scale with existing structures and uses in
the same zone and vicinity; and



 



   (3)   that the grant is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment
of a substantial property right possessed by other property owners in the
same zone and vicinity.



 



   (b)   Findings for Reduced Yards.  In addition to the findings
otherwise required by this section, a Zoning Administrator shall find:



 



   (1)   that the reduction will not result in side yards of less than
three feet; and



 



   (2)   that the reduction will not be materially detrimental to the
public welfare or injurious to the property or improvements in the same zone
or vicinity in which the property is located.



 



   (c)   Procedures.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,992, Eff. 7/6/01.)  An
application for permission pursuant to this subdivision shall follow the
procedures for slight modifications set forth in Section 12.28 C.1., 2. and 3.



 



   (d)   Fees.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,992, Eff. 7/6/01.)  Fees for
these determinations shall be those provided pursuant to Section 19.01 U of
this Code when a public hearing is required and one-half the amount of that
provided under Section 19.01 U. when the public hearing has been waived
pursuant to Section 12.28 C.2.(a).



 



   11.   Hillside Area.  A Zoning Administrator may, upon application,
permit Buildings and Structures on Lots in the A1, A2, and RD Zones which are
located in a Hillside Area as defined in Section 12.03 of this Code to: 
(Amended by Ord. No. 181,624, Eff. 5/9/11.)



 



   (1)   exceed the maximum 36-foot height limitation required by
Section 12.21 A.17.(c);



 



   (2)   reduce the front or side yards required by Section 12.21
A.17.(a) and (b);



 



   (3)   increase the maximum lot coverage limitations of Section 12.21
A.17.(f); and



 



   (4)   reduce the number of off-street parking spaces otherwise
required by Section 12.21 A.17.(h).  In addition to the findings required by
this subsection, a Zoning Administrator shall find the following:



 



   (a)   Height:



 



   (1)   that the increase in height will not result in a building or
structure which exceeds an overall height of 45 feet; and



 



   (2)   that the increase in height will result in a building or
structure which is compatible in scale with existing structures in the
vicinity; and



 



   (3)   that the grant is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment
of a substantial property right possessed by other property in the area.



 



   (b)   Yards:



 



   (1)   that the reduction in yards will not result in side yards of
less than four feet; and



 



   (2)   that the reduction in yards will not be materially detrimental
to the public welfare or injurious to the adjacent property or improvements.



 



   (c)   Lot Coverage:



 



   (1)   that the increase in lot coverage will not result in a total
lot coverage in excess of 50 percent of the lot area;



 



   (2)   that the increase in lot coverage will result in a development
which is compatible in size and scale with other improvements in the
immediate neighborhood; and



 



   (3)   that the increase in lot coverage will not result in a loss of
privacy or access to light enjoyed by adjacent properties.



 



   (d)   Off-Street Parking:



 



   (1)   that the reduction of the parking requirements will not create
an adverse impact on street access or circulation in the surrounding
neighborhood; and



 



   (2)   that the reduction of the parking requirements will not be
materially detrimental or injurious to the property or improvements in the
vicinity in which the lot is located.



 



   (e)   Procedures.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,992, Eff. 7/6/01.)  An
application for permission pursuant to this subdivision shall follow the
procedures for slight modifications set forth in Section 12.28C1, 2 and 3.



 



   12.   Historic Buildings.  A Zoning Administrator may, upon
application, permit commercial uses in a building and/or permit reduced
parking otherwise required in this Code, for a building that is designated on
the National Register of Historic Places, including Contributing Buildings in
National Register Historic Districts, the California Register of Historical
Resources, the City of Los Angeles List of Historic-Cultural Monuments, or a
Contributing Structure located in an Historic Preservation Overlay Zone
(HPOZ) that has been established pursuant to Section 12.20.3.



 



   If the commercial use and/or reduction in parking involves any changes
to the exterior physical appearance of the building, then the applicant must
submit the following with an application for permission.  If the building is
a Contributing Structure in an HPOZ, an approved Certificate of
Appropriateness must be submitted with the application for permission.  If
the building is a nationally, State or locally designated historically
significant building outside of an HPOZ, written clearance from the General
Manager of the Department of Cultural Affairs, or his or her designee, that
the project complies with the Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for
Rehabilitation must be submitted with the application for permission.



 



   (a)   The Zoning Administrator may permit one or more of the
following commercial uses with reduced parking in the A1, A2, RA, RE, RS, R1,
RU, RZ, RW1, R2, RD, RW2, R3, R4, and R5 Zones:



 



   (1)   Bed and Breakfast Facilities, subject to the following
limitations:



 



   (i)   The owner must reside within the building;



 



   (ii)   Food service shall be limited to registered guests only.  No
restaurant or cooking facilities within guest rooms shall be permitted; and



 



   (iii)   No amplified music, lawn parties, private parties,
receptions, outdoor weddings, or similar activities shall be allowed, unless
specifically permitted by the Zoning Administrator.



 



   (2)   Joint living and work quarters for the following
occupations:  accountants; architects; artists and artisans; attorneys;
computer software and multimedia related professionals; consultants;
engineers; fashion, graphic, interior and other designers; insurance, real
estate, and travel agents; photographers; and other similar occupations as
determined by the Zoning Administrator.



 



   (b)   The Zoning Administrator may permit one or more of the
following commercial uses with reduced parking in the RD, R3, R4, and R5
Zones:



 



   (1)   Full-service restaurants and cafes, subject to the following
limitations:



 



   (i)   Seating capacity is limited to a maximum of 25 persons; and



 



   (ii)   Live entertainment is limited to one unamplified instrument
and no amplification is used in conjunction with the entertainment, unless
specifically permitted by the Zoning Administrator;



 



   (2)   Offices of civic and social organizations and philanthropic
institutions;



 



   (3)   Offices for providers of professional services, including
accountants; architects; attorneys; computer software and multimedia related
professionals; consultants; engineers; fashion, graphic, interior and other
designers; insurance, real estate, and travel agents; photographers; and
other similar occupations as determined by the Zoning Administrator; and



 



   (4)   Retail sales, limited to no more than 800 square feet of floor
area of the following uses on condition that no exterior displays or lawn
sales are permitted:



 



   (i)   Antiques;



 



   (ii)   Art gallery;



 



   (iii)   Collectibles;



 



   (iv)   Florist shops; and



 



   (v)   Rare books, except those regulated under Section 12.70.



 



   (c)   The Zoning Administrator shall have the authority to impose
limitations on hours of operation, deliveries, and other restrictions and
conditions necessary to ensure the compatibility of the commercial use with
the surrounding area or HPOZ, or to protect the historic character of the
building.



 



   The Zoning Administrator may permit no more than one non-illuminated or
non- neon wall sign or projecting sign.  The sign must be made of wood and
shall not exceed six square feet in area.



 



   The Zoning Administrator may reduce or eliminate off-street automobile
parking spaces required by this article if there is no area available for
parking on the site, or if the provision of required parking would harm the
historic character of the building.



 



   (d)   The Zoning Administrator may reduce or eliminate off-street
automobile parking spaces required by this article in connection with a
change of use in the CR, C1, C1.5, C2, C4, C5 or CM Zones if there is no area
available for parking on the site, or if the provision of required parking
would harm the historic character of the building.



 



   (e)   In addition to the findings required by this section, the
Zoning Administrator shall also make the following findings before granting
an application pursuant to this subdivision:



 



   (1)   The commercial use and/or reduced parking is compatible with,
and will not adversely impact property within, the surrounding area or HPOZ;
and



 



   (2)   The commercial use and/or reduced parking is reasonably
necessary to provide for the continued preservation of the historically
significant building and is compatible with its historic character.



 



   For applications for properties within HPOZs, the Zoning Administrator
shall take into consideration the relationship between the approved
Preservation Plan and the proposed commercial use and/or reduced parking.



 



   (f)   When an application for permission pursuant to this
subdivision has been received and deemed complete for a Contributing
Structure in an HPOZ, the Zoning Administrator shall notify the applicable
Historic Preservation Board.  When an application for permission has been
received and deemed complete for a building that is designated on the
National Register of Historic Places, including Contributing Buildings in
National Register Historic Districts, the California Register of Historical
Resources, or the City of Los Angeles List of Historic-Cultural Monuments,
the Zoning Administrator shall notify the Cultural Heritage Commission.



 



   In the following cases, an application for permission pursuant to this
subdivision shall be set for public hearing and notice shall be given in the
same manner as required for a variance which is set for public hearing
pursuant to Section 12.27C except to the extent an additional appeal is
permitted to City Council:



 



   (1)   When it can reasonably be anticipated that approval of the
application could have a significant adverse effect on adjoining properties
or on the immediate neighborhood; or



 



   (2)   When the application is likely to evoke public controversy.



 



   In all other cases an application pursuant to this subdivision may not
be set for public hearing, unless the Chief Zoning Administrator determines
that a hearing would further the public interest.



 



   If the application is for a Contributing Structure in an HPOZ, a public
hearing may not be required if the applicant secures and submits with the
application the written approval of the applicable Historic Preservation
Board.  Alternatively, if the applicant submits with the application the
written approval of owners of all properties abutting, across the street or
alley from, or having a common corner with the subject corner, then the
matter may not be set for public hearing.



 



   13.   Joint Living and Work Quarters.  A Zoning Administrator may,
upon application, permit joint living and work quarters for artists and
artisans, including individual architects and designers, in commercial and
industrial buildings in the CR, MR1, MR2, M1, M2, and M3 Zones, and permit
joint living and work quarters with reduced parking in the C1, C1.5, C2, C4,
C5 and CM Zones.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,133, Eff. 5/11/10.)



 



   (a)   Findings.  In addition to the findings otherwise required by
this section, the Zoning Administrator shall also find:



 



   (1)   that the uses of property surrounding the proposed location of
the joint living and work quarters and the use of the proposed location will
not be detrimental to the health, safety and welfare of prospective residents
of the quarters; and



 



   (2)   that the proposed joint living and work quarters will not
displace viable industrial uses and will not substantially lessen the
likelihood that the property will be available in the future for industrial
uses.



 



   (b)   Requirements.  The Zoning Administrator shall also require:



 



   (1)   that the authorized use shall be of no force and effect unless
and until satisfactory evidence is presented to the Zoning Administrator for
review and attachment to the file that a business tax registration
certificate has been issued to each tenant by the Office of Finance pursuant
to Los Angeles Administrative Code Section 21.03 permitting those persons to
engage in business as artists or artisans; and



 



   (2)   that one or more signs or symbols of a size and design
approved by the Fire Department shall be placed by the applicant at
designated locations on the exterior of each building approved as joint
living and work quarters to indicate that these buildings are used for
residential purposes.



 



   (c)   Zoning Administrator Authority.  The Zoning Administrator has
the authority to:



 



   (1)   Reduce or eliminate yards and setbacks required by this
article if they cannot be provided;



 



   (2)   Reduce or eliminate off-street automobile parking spaces
required by this article if there is no area available for parking on the
site; and



 



   (3)   Waive the public hearing if the owners of all the properties
abutting, across the street or alley from, or having a common corner with the
building have expressed no objections to the quarters in writing.  (Added by
Ord. No. 173,992, Eff. 7/6/01.)



 



   (d)   Procedures.  An application for permission pursuant to this
subdivision shall follow the procedures for adjustments set forth in Section
12.28C1, 2, and 3.  However, the Zoning Administrator may waive the public
hearing required in that section if the owners of all properties abutting,
across the street or alley from, or having a common corner with the buildings
have expressed in writing no objections to the quarters.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 174,315, Eff. 12/20/01.)



 



   14.   Mixed Use Districts.  A Zoning Administrator may, upon
application, permit Projects comprised exclusively of dwelling units on lots
in the CR, C1, C1.5, C2, C4, or C5 Zones within Mixed Use Districts pursuant
to Section 13.09C 3.



 



   (a)   Procedures.  An application made pursuant to this subdivision
shall follow the procedures for variances set forth in Section 12.27C except
to the extent an additional appeal is permitted to City Council.  The Zoning
Administrator may waive the public hearing required in that section if the
applicant submits with the application the written approval of owners of all
properties abutting, across the street or alley from, or having a common
corner with the subject property.



 



   (b)   Findings.  In addition to the findings otherwise required by
this section, a Zoning Administrator shall find that the character of the
Mixed Use District shall not be adversely affected by the proposed Project
and that the Project is appropriately integrated with the surrounding
commercial uses.



 



   15.   Model Dwellings Within Council-Approved Redevelopment Areas. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 173,992, Eff. 7/6/01.)  Prior or subsequent to the
recordation of a final tract map, the Zoning Administrator may, upon
application for a model dwelling, designate certain lots as sites for the
construction of model dwellings, provided that the construction is occurring
within the boundaries of a Council-approved Community Redevelopment Agency
project area.  In no case, however, shall more than 20 lots in a tract be
designated as sites for the construction of models nor shall more than 15% of
the lots in a tract or units and in no case shall more than 20 units in any
proposed building be designated as model sites.



 



   The Zoning Administrator may also permit the operation of one sales
office within any of the designated model dwellings on the proposed site. 
In designating certain proposed lots for use as sites for model dwellings or
sales offices, the Zoning Administrator may impose any conditions specified
in Sections 12.22A10 and 12.22A11 or any other conditions which are
appropriate to the particular model dwelling sites or sales offices being
considered.  In those cases where the Community Redevelopment Agency is the
applicant, there shall be no fee for the designation of a site for the
construction of model dwellings; in all other cases the fee, if any, shall be
as set forth in this Code.



 



   An application made pursuant to this subdivision shall follow the
procedures for adjustments set forth in Subdivisions 1, 2 and 3 of Subsection
C of Section 12.28.



 



   16.   Nonconforming Rights Related to Earthquake Safety Ordinance. 
A Zoning Administrator may, upon application, permit a building,
nonconforming as to use or yards which is demolished as a result of
enforcement of the Earthquake Safety Ordinance (Division 68, Article 1,
Chapter IX of the Los Angeles Municipal Code), to be reconstructed with the
same nonconforming use or yards as the original building.



 



   (a)   Findings.  In addition to the findings otherwise required by
this section, a Zoning Administrator shall require and find the following:



 



   (1)   that neither the footing nor any portion of the replacement
building encroaches into any area planned for widening or extension of
existing or future streets; and



 



   (2)   that reconstruction be commenced within two years of obtaining
a permit for demolition and completed within two years of obtaining a permit
for reconstruction; and



 



   (3)   that the continued nonconforming use of the property or the
continued maintenance of nonconforming yards will not be materially
detrimental to the public welfare and will not have a substantial adverse
impact on or be injurious to the properties or improvements in the vicinity.



 



   (b)   Procedures.  An application pursuant to this subdivision
involving a nonconforming use shall follow the procedures for variances set
forth in Section 12.27 C. of this Code, except to the extent an additional
appeal is permitted to City Council.  The Zoning Administrator may waive the
public hearing if the applicant has secured the approval for the
reconstruction from the owners of all properties abutting, across the street
or alley from, or having a common corner with the subject property.  If that
approval is obtained from the surrounding property  owners, the Zoning
Administrator may waive the public hearing if the administrator makes the
following written findings:  (Amended by Ord. No. 177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.)



 



   (1)   that the nonconforming use will not have a significant adverse
effect on adjoining property or on the immediate neighborhood; and



 



   (2)   that the nonconforming use is not likely to evoke public
controversy.



 



   An application pursuant to this subdivision involving only a
nonconforming yard may be set for a public hearing in accordance with the
same procedures as above, if the Zoning Administrator determines that the
public interest requires a hearing.  However, when a public hearing is held,
the notice shall be given in the same manner as required in Section 12.28C2
for an adjustment.



 



   17.   Parking Requirements for Commercial or Industrial Uses With
Parking Management Alternatives in the C and M Zones.



 



   (a)   Reduced On-Site Parking with Transportation Alternatives.



 



   (1)   Notwithstanding any other provision of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code, the Zoning Administrator may, upon application, authorize
reduced on-site parking for commercial or industrial uses in the C or M
Zones, involving arrivals at the site by at least 100 employees and/or
tenants, if the number of the reduced parking spaces is no less than sixty
percent of the number of parking spaces otherwise required by this Code. 
This authorization shall be known as the “reduced on-site
parking/transportation alternatives authorization”.



 



   (2)   Before approving this authorization, the Zoning Administrator
shall find, based on the Parking Management Program Administrative Guidelines
prepared by the City of Los Angeles and/or other standards acceptable to the
City of Los Angeles Department of Transportation, that the Parking Management
Plan submitted by the applicant pursuant to Subdivision (c) below will result
in:



 



   (i)   Sufficient on-site parking spaces and transportation
alternatives to single- occupant automobiles (including carpools, vanpools,
mass transit systems, buses or bicycles), provided by the owner or lessee for
the employees and/or tenants, to accommodate anticipated parking demand; and



 



   (ii)   No on-street parking created by the use in the area
immediately surrounding the use; and



 



   (iii)   An achievable level of employee and/or tenant use of
transportation alternatives.



 



   (3)   The areas in which the on-site parking spaces referred to in
(i) above are located must be clearly posted for the sole use of employees
and/or tenants of the use.



 



   (4)   The Zoning Administrator may impose additional conditions as
are deemed necessary to protect the public health, safety or welfare of the
adjacent area and to assure compliance with the objectives of this subsection.



 



   (5)   No change in the use of the transportation alternatives
referred to in (i) above may be made until reviewed and approved by the
Zoning Administrator.



 



   (b)   Reduced On-Site Parking with Remote Off-Site Parking.



 



   (1)   Notwithstanding any other provision of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code, the Zoning Administrator may, upon application, authorize
remote off-site parking at distances greater than those authorized by Section
12.21A4(g) and (i) for commercial or industrial uses, in the C or M Zones,
involving arrivals at the site by at least 100 employees and/or tenants, if
the remote off-site parking does not exceed seventy-five percent of the
number of parking spaces otherwise required by this Code.  This
authorization shall be known as the “reduced on-site parking/remote
off-site parking authorization”.



 



   (2)   Before approving the authorization, the Zoning Administrator
shall find, based on the Parking Management Program Administrative Guidelines
prepared by the City of Los Angeles and/or other standards acceptable to the
City of Los Angeles Department of Transportation, that the Parking Management
Plan submitted by the applicant pursuant to Paragraph (c) will provide for:



 



   (i)   Remote off-site parking spaces used solely by the employees
and/or tenants of the commercial or industrial use; and



 



   (ii)   An adequate form of transportation provided by the applicant
or applicant’s successor and used by employees and tenants between the
remote off-site parking location and the commercial or industrial use to a
level sufficient to transport all persons using the remote parking location.



 



   (3)   The Zoning Administrator may impose such additional conditions
as are deemed necessary to protect the public health, safety or welfare of
the adjacent area and to assure compliance with the objectives of this
subsection.



 



   (4)   No change in the use of the form of transportation referred to
in (ii) above may be made until reviewed and approved by the Zoning
Administrator.



 



   (c)   Application.  The application for a reduced on-site
parking/transportation alternative authorization or a reduced on-site
parking/remote off-site parking authorization shall be accompanied by a
parking management plan.  The plan shall include, but not be limited to the
following information:



 



   (1)   The number of parking spaces on-site and the number of
location of spaces off-site proposed to be maintained;



 



   (2)   The number and kinds of transportation alternatives proposed
for the reduced on-site/transportation alternative authorization and the
forms of transportation proposed between the commercial or industrial use and
the remote off-site parking location for the reduced on-site parking/remote
off-site parking authorization; and



 



   (3)   The level of employee and/or tenant use of transportation
alternatives and forms of transportation identified in (2) above expected to
be achieved and maintained.



 



   (d)   Annual Review.  Each year, prior to the anniversary date of
the approval of any authorization received pursuant to this subdivision, the
owner, subsequent owner or lessee shall submit a report and request for
review to the Zoning Administrator containing the information regarding the
implementation of the Parking Management Plan as the Zoning Administrator
shall specify.  Within thirty days of receiving this report, the Zoning
Administrator shall approve, disapprove or conditionally approve the report,
imposing any additional conditions to the authorization as deemed appropriate
in light of information contained in the report.  If the Zoning
Administrator disapproves an annual report, a revised report shall be filed
within thirty days for the Zoning Administrator’s review.  If the revised
report is disapproved, the Zoning Administrator shall set the matter for
revocation hearing in the manner set forth in Paragraph (f) below.



 



   (e)   Limitations.  This subsection is not intended to mean nor
shall be interpreted to authorize any development in excess of the density,
including floor area, floor area ratio, dwelling units or guest rooms,
otherwise permitted by an applicable zone, specific plan or other regulation.



 



   (f)   Procedures.  An application made pursuant to this subdivision
shall follow the procedures for conditional uses set forth in this section.



 



   (g)   Violations.  If the owner, subsequent owner or lessee fails
to submit the annual report and review request as specified in Paragraph (d)
above, or if the Zoning Administrator determines that the owner, subsequent
owner or lessee failed to comply with this subdivision, the Zoning
Administrator may give notice to the owner, subsequent owner, or lessee of
the use affected, to appear at a time and place fixed by the Zoning
Administrator and to show cause why the authorization should not be revoked
and parking developed on or off-site as provided in the site plan
submitted.  After the hearing at which evidence shall be taken, the Zoning
Administrator may revoke the authorization granted pursuant to this
subdivision.  If the authorization is revoked, the owner, subsequent owner,
or lessee shall commence development of the parking spaces required by this
Code within sixty days and proceed diligently to completion in accordance
with the site plan submitted.



 



   18.   Parking Requirements for Showcase Theaters.  Where the
off-street parking requirements of Section 12.21A4(e) and (g) cannot be met,
a Zoning Administrator may, upon application, approve slight modifications
from those paragraphs.



 



   (a)   Slight modifications from the number of parking spaces
required shall not exceed 20 percent of the required parking;



 



   (b)   Procedures.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,992, Eff. 7/6/01.)  An
application made pursuant to this subdivision shall follow the procedures for
slight modifications set forth in Section 12.28C1, 2 and 3.  A $50 filing
fee shall accompany the filing of any application for slight modification.



 



   19.   Reduction in parking.  A Zoning Administrator may, upon
application, permit a reduction in the number of off-street parking spaces
required by Section 12.21A4(e) for any auditorium or similar place of
assembly without fixed seats which is located in the City of Los Angeles
within a park under the control, operation or management of the Board of
Recreation and Park Commissioners.



 



   (a)   Limitations.



 



   (1)   The number of parking spaces shall not be fewer than one
parking space for each 200 square feet of floor area contained in the
auditorium or similar place of assembly;



 



   (2)   Before approving a parking reduction pursuant to this
subdivision, a Zoning Administrator shall find that the surrounding area will
not be adversely affected by overflow parking or traffic congestion
originating or terminating at the park site and that the reduction will not
otherwise be materially detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to the
properties or improvements in the surrounding area.



 



   (b)   Procedures.  In the following cases, an application made
pursuant to this subdivision shall follow the procedures for variances set
forth in Section 12.27C except to the extent an additional appeal is
permitted to City Council.



 



   (1)   When property classified in a multiple-residential zone, or an
area which the Zoning Administrator determines is characterized by traffic or
parking congestion, is located 500 feet or less from the exterior boundary of
the park site within which the auditorium or similar place of assembly is
situated;



 



   (2)   When it can reasonably be anticipated that approval of the
application could have a significant adverse effect on adjoining properties
or on the immediate neighborhood; or



 



   (3)   When the application is likely to evoke public controversy.



 



   (c)   In all other cases, an application pursuant to this
subdivision need not be set for public hearing unless the Zoning
Administrator determines that a hearing would further the public interest.



 



   (d)   A copy of each application shall be promptly transmitted for
review to the Councilmember of the district in which the property is located.



 



   20.   Shared Parking.  A Zoning Administrator may, upon
application, permit two or more uses to share their off-street parking
spaces, if the Zoning Administrator determines that a lower total number of
parking spaces than would otherwise be required will provide adequate parking
for these uses.



 



   (a)   Requirements.  The Zoning Administrator’s determination
shall be based on an analysis of parking demand.  This analysis shall be
conducted on an hourly basis, 24 hours per day, for seven consecutive days. 
The Zoning Administrator shall permit a reduced total parking requirement
according to the greatest parking requirement of the shared uses, under the
following conditions and circumstances:



 



   (1)   The maximum distance between each participating building or
use and the nearest point of the shares parking facility shall be 750 feet,
measured as provided in Section 12.21A4(g).



 



   (2)   The applicant and parties operating the shared parking
facility shall submit written evidence in a form satisfactory to the Office
of Zoning Administration which describes the nature of the uses, hours of
operation, parking requirements, and the allocation of parking spaces, and
which demonstrates that the required parking for each use will be available
taking into account their hours of operation.



 



   (3)   Reserved or otherwise restricted spaces shall not be shared.



 



   (4)   Additional documents, covenants, deed restrictions, or other
agreements shall be executed and recorded as may be deemed necessary by the
Zoning Administrator, in order to assure the continued maintenance and
operation of the shared spaces, under the terms and conditions set forth in
the original shared parking arrangement.



 



   (b)   Procedures.  An application for permission pursuant to this
subdivision shall follow the procedures for variances set forth in Section
12.27. C. except to the extent an additional appeal is permitted to City
Council.



 



   21.   Substandard Hillside Street, Street Access or Grading for
Parking in Hillsides.  (Amended by Ord. No. 174,652, Eff. 7/27/02.)



 



   (a)   Requirements.  If an owner seeks relief, a Zoning
Administrator may permit the Grading and construction of Buildings and
Structures on Lots in the A1, A2 and RD Zones, which:  (Amended by Ord. No.
181,624, Eff. 5/9/11.)



 



   (1)   do not meet the requirements of Section 12.21 A.17.(e)(2),
because they front on a Substandard Hillside Limited Street improved to a
roadway width of less than 20 feet,



 



   (2)   do not meet the requirements of Section 12.21 A.17.(e)(3),
because they do not have vehicular access from streets improved with a
minimum 20 foot wide continuous paved roadway from the driveway apron that
provides access to the main residence to the boundary of the Hillside Area; or



 



   (3)   providing parking in compliance with Section 12.21 A.17.(h)
requires the grading of more than 1,000 cubic yards of earth.



 



   (b)   Findings.  In addition to the findings otherwise required by
this section, a Zoning Administrator shall find:



 



   (1)   that the vehicular traffic associated with the building or
structure will not create an adverse impact on street access or circulation
in the surrounding neighborhood; and



 



   (2)   that the building or structure will not be materially
detrimental or injurious to the adjacent property or improvements; and



 



   (3)   that the building or structure will not have a materially
adverse safety impact on the surrounding neighborhood; and



 



   (4)   that the site and/or existing  improvements make strict
adherence to Section 12.21 A.17.(e) or (h) impractical or infeasible.



 



   (c)   Procedures.  An application for permission pursuant to this
subdivision shall follow the procedures for adjustments set forth in Section
12.28 C.1., 2. and 3.



 



   22.   Transitional Height.



 



   (a)   Requirements.  A Zoning Administrator may, upon application,
permit buildings and structures on lots in C and M Zones to exceed the
maximum heights otherwise permitted by the provisions of Section 12.21.1
A.10.  In addition to the findings set forth in Section 12.24 E., the Zoning
Administrator shall find that the project provides for an arrangement of
uses, buildings, structures, open spaces and other improvements that are
compatible with the scale and character of the adjacent properties and
surrounding neighborhood.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,075, Eff. 5/7/12.)



 



   (b)   Procedures.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,992, Eff. 7/6/01.)  An
application for permission pursuant to this subdivision shall follow the
procedures for adjustments set forth in Section 12.28 C.1., 2. and 3.



 



   23.   (Added by Ord. No. 173,756, Eff. 3/8/01.)  To permit in the
Commercial zones uses which support motion picture and television production
and other entertainment industries and are not on, or integrated with a
motion picture and television studio site.  Support uses may include, but
are not limited to, sound labs, film editing, film video and audio
processing, sets and props production, computer design, computer graphics,
animation, offices and ancillary facilities.



 



   (a)   Findings.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,095, Eff. 5/7/12.)  In
addition to the findings set forth in Section 12.24 E., the Zoning
Administrator shall also find that the use is conducted so that its products
or services are intended to be utilized by the motion picture, television,
video or radio industry or other entertainment industries.



 



   (b)   Procedures.  An application for permission pursuant to this
subdivision shall be set for public hearing; and notice shall be given in the
same manner required for variances which are set for public hearing pursuant
to Section 12.27 of this Code, unless the applicant has secured and submits
with the application the written approval of the owners of all properties
abutting, across the street or alley from, or having a common corner with the
subject property.



 



   24.   Child care facilities.  (Added by Ord. No. 176,545, Eff.
5/2/05.)  A Zoning Administrator may grant an application to permit a child
care facility for 21 to 50 children in the R3 and RAS3 zones.



 



   (a)   Procedures.  An application for permission pursuant to this
subdivision shall follow the procedures for adjustments set forth in Section
12.28 C.1., 2., and 3.  The Zoning Administrator may waive the public
hearing required in that section if the applicant submits with the
application written approval of the proposed child care facility signed by
the owners of all properties abutting, across the street or alley from or
having a common corner with the subject property.



 



   25.   Large Family Day Care Home.  (Added by Ord. No. 176,545, Eff.
5/2/05.)



 



   (a)   Pursuant to Section 12.22 A.3.(b)(3), a Zoning Administrator
may grant an application to permit a Large Family Day Care Home within 300
feet of any existing Large Family Day Care Home.  The application shall
include information to show that the proposed use will meet the following
standards:



 



   (1)   Drop-off and pick-up areas are provided, as are necessary to
avoid interference with traffic and promote the safety of the children; and



 



   (2)   The day care home complies with all applicable State and local
laws and requirements relating to child care facilities; and



 



   (3)   The use does not create an unreasonable level of disruption or
interference with the peaceful enjoyment of the neighboring residents; and



 



   (4)   All play equipment and structures are located in the rear yard
only; and



 



   (5)   No loudspeaker or public address system shall be installed or
operated on any open portion of the premises, and any recorded music used in
connection with any activity shall be significantly modulated to ensure that
the use does not disturb the neighboring residents.



 



   (b)   Procedures.  An application for permission pursuant to this
subdivision shall follow the procedures for adjustments set forth in Section
12.28 C.1., 2., and 3. The Zoning Administrator may waive the public hearing
required in that section if the applicant submits with the application the
written approval of the proposed child care facility signed by the owners of
all properties abutting, across the street or alley from or having a common
corner with the subject property.



 



   26.   Retaining Walls in Hillside Areas.  (Added by Ord. No.
176,445, Eff. 3/9/05.)



 



   (a)   A Zoning Administrator may, upon application, permit retaining
walls that exceed the height or maximum number allowed in Section 12.21
C.8.(a) of this Code.



 



   (b)   Procedures.  An application pursuant to this subdivision
shall follow the procedures for adjustments set forth in Section 12.28 C.1. -
C.5. of this Code.



 



   27.   Continuation of Nonconforming Use of Building.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 182,095, Eff. 5/7/12.)  A Zoning Administrator may, upon
application, permit the continuation of a nonconforming commercial use of a
building or structure in an A or R Zone for an additional period of time as
specified beyond the discontinuance date as established pursuant either to a
previous grant or to Section 12.23 B.2. of this Code.



 



   Any application for a continuation of a nonconforming use of a building
or structure must be filed with the Department of City Planning within 90
days following the service of an order to comply by the Department of
Building and Safety upon an owner of a nonconforming use, or, in those
instances where the Department is unable with reasonable effort to serve the
owner, then within 90 days after the service by the Department of the order
by leaving it with an occupant of the nonconforming use.  If the application
is not filed within 90 days, it shall not be considered pursuant to this
subdivision.



 



   An application pursuant to this subdivision shall be set for public
hearing and notice shall be given in the same manner as required in Section
12.24 of this Code unless the applicant has secured approval for the
continuance of the nonconforming use from the owners of all properties
abutting, across the street or alley from, or having a common corner with the
subject property.  If approval is obtained from the surrounding property
owners, the Zoning Administrator may waive the public hearing if he or she
makes written findings that the nonconforming use will not have a significant
adverse effect on adjoining property or on the immediate neighborhood, and
that the nonconforming use is not likely to evoke public controversy.



 



   The Department of City Planning shall process these applications for
continuation in accordance with Section 12.24 of this Code, except that the
time limits prescribed for the making of a decision by a Zoning Administrator
shall not apply.  Appeals from a Zoning Administrator's decision approving
or disapproving the continuation of a nonconforming use of a building or
structure may be taken to the Area Planning Commission pursuant to Section
12.24 I. of this Code.  No further appeal shall be permitted.



 



   Failure of the Area Planning Commission to act within 60 days of the
filing of an appeal from the Zoning Administrator's decision approving or
disapproving a continuation, or within any additional period as may be
mutually agreed upon by the applicant and the Commission, shall be deemed to
be a denial of the appeal.



 



   No fee shall be required for the initial application for a
continuation.  A fee shall be required for the second and subsequent
requests for continuation pursuant to Section 19.01 F. of this Code.



 



   28.   Single-Family Zones in Hillside Area.  (Added by Ord. No.
181,624, Eff. 5/9/11.)  A Zoning Administrator may, upon application, grant
the deviations outlined in Paragraph (a) of this Subdivision 28. on Lots in
the R1, RS, RE, and RA Zones which are located in a Hillside Area as defined
in Section 12.03 of this Code.



 



   (a)   Zoning Administrator Authority.  If an owner seeks relief, a
Zoning Administrator has the authority to grant the following deviations:



 



   (1)   Setback Requirements.  A reduction of the Front and Side Yard
setback requirements outlined in Paragraph (a) of Subdivision 10. of
Subsection C. of Section 12.21 of this Code for Lots fronting on a
Substandard Hillside Limited Street; however, in no event shall the Side Yard
be less than 4 feet.



 



   (2)   Additions to Structures Existing Prior to August 1, 2010. 
Any additions made after August 1, 2010, to a One-Family Dwelling existing
prior to that date for which permits have been previously obtained which
exceed the requirements of Paragraph (b) of Subdivision 10. of Subsection C.
of Section 12.21 of this Code, provided:



 



   (i)   the total cumulative Residential Floor Area of all such
additions does not exceed 1,000 square feet; and



 



   (ii)   the resulting Building does not exceed the height of the
original Building or the height permitted in Paragraph (d) of Subdivision 10.
of Subsection C. of Section 12.21 of this Code, whichever is greater; and



 



   (iii)   at least two off-street covered parking spaces are provided.



 



   (3)   Height.  Exceed the maximum envelope height requirements
required by Paragraph (d) of Subdivision 10. of Subsection C. of Section
12.21 of this Code; however, the increase in height may not result in a
Building or Structure which exceeds an overall height of 45 feet.  The
overall height shall be measured from the lowest Elevation point, within 5
horizontal feet of the exterior walls of a Building or Structure, to the
highest elevation point of the roof Structure or parapet wall.



 



   (4)   Lot Coverage.  Increase the maximum Lot coverage limitations
as outlined in Paragraph (e) of Subdivision 10. of Subsection C. of Section
12.21 of this Code, up to a maximum of 50% of the Lot area.



 



   (5)   Grading.



 



   (i)   Grading in excess of the maximum "by-right" Grading quantities
listed in Subparagraph (1) of Paragraph (f) of Subdivision 10. of Subsection
C. of Section 12.21 of this Code, but in no event shall the quantities exceed
the true value of 500 cubic yards plus the numeric value equal to 5% of the
total Lot size in cubic yards.



 



   (ii)   For a property which fronts onto a Standard Hillside Limited
Street of Larger, as defined in Section 12.03 of this Code, increase the
maximum quantity of earth import or export greater than 500 cubic yards, and
increase the maximum quantity of export greater than 1,000 cubic yards;
calculated pursuant to Subparagraph (2) of Paragraph (f) of Subdivision 10.
of Subsection C. of Section 12.21 of this Code.



 



   For a property which fronts onto a Substandard Hillside Limited Street,
as defined in Section 12.03 of this Code, increase the maximum quantity of
earth import greater than 375 cubic yards, and increase the maximum quantity
of earth export greater than 750 cubic yards; calculated pursuant to
Subparagraph (2) of Paragraph (f) of Subdivision 10. of Subsection C. of
Section 12.21 of this Code.



 



   (6)   Off-Street Parking.  Reduce the number of off-Street parking
spaces required by Subparagraph (2) of Paragraph (g) of Subdivision 10. of
Subsection C. of Section 12.21 of this Code.



 



   (7)   Street Access.  The construction of Buildings and Structures
on Lots in the R1, RS, RE, and RA Zones which:



 



   (i)   Adjacent Minimum Roadway Width. Do not meet the requirements
of Subparagraph (2) of Paragraph (i) of Subdivision 10. of Subsection C. of
Section 12.21 of this Code because they front on a Substandard Hillside
Limited Street improved to a roadway width of less than 20 feet.



 



   (ii)   Minimum Roadway Width (Continuous Paved Roadway).  Do not
meet the requirements of Subparagraph (3) of Paragraph (i) of Subdivision 10.
of Subsection C. of Section 12.21 of this Code because they do not have
vehicular access from streets improved with a minimum 20-foot wide continuous
paved roadway from the driveway apron that provides access to the main
residence to the boundary of the Hillside Area.



 



   (b)   Findings.  The Zoning Administrator shall find that approval
of any use in this Subsection is in conformity with the public necessity,
convenience, general welfare and good zoning practice and that the action
will be in substantial conformance with the various elements and objectives
of the General Plan, and that the approval is consistent with the following
applicable findings:



 



   (1)   Setback Requirements.  That the reduction in yards will not
be materially detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to the adjacent
property or improvements.



 



   (2)   Additions to Structures Existing Prior to August 1, 2010. 
That the increase in Residential Floor Area will result in a Building or
Structure which is compatible in scale with existing Structures in the
vicinity; and that the approval is necessary for the preservation and
enjoyment of a substantial property right possessed by other property in the
vicinity.



 



   (3)   Height.  That the increase in height will result in a
Building or Structure which is compatible in scale with existing Structures
in the vicinity; and that the approval is necessary for the preservation and
enjoyment of a substantial property right possessed by other property in the
vicinity.



 



   (4)   Lot Coverage.  That the increase in Lot coverage will result
in a development which is compatible in size and scale with other
improvements in the immediate neighborhood; and that the increase will not
result in a loss of privacy or access to light enjoyed by adjacent properties.



 



   (5)   Grading.



 



   (i)   That Grading in excess of the absolute maximum Grading
quantities listed in Subparagraph (1) of Paragraph (f) of Subdivision 10. of
Subsection C. of Section 12.21 of this Code is done in accordance with the
Department of City Planning - Planning Guidelines Landform Grading Manual
(adopted by the City Council on June 1983), and is used to reflect original
landform and result in minimum disturbance to natural terrain.  Notching
into hillsides is encouraged so that projects are built into natural terrain
as much as possible.



 



   (ii)   That the increase in the maximum quantity of earth import or
export will not lead to the significant alteration of the existing natural
terrain, that the hauling of earth is being done in a manner that does not
significantly affect the existing conditions of the Street improvements and
traffic of the Streets along the haul route, and that potentially significant
impacts to the public health, safety, and welfare of the surrounding
community are being mitigated to the fullest extent feasible.



 



   (6)   Off-Street Parking.  That the reduction of the parking
requirements will not create an adverse impact on Street access or
circulation in the surrounding neighborhood; and that the reduction will not
be materially detrimental or injurious to the property or improvements in the
vicinity in which the Lot is located.



 



   (7)   Street Access.



 



   (i)   That the vehicular traffic associated with the Building or
Structure will not create an adverse impact on Street access or circulation
in the surrounding neighborhood; and



 



   (ii)   That the Building or Structure will not be materially
detrimental or injurious to the adjacent property or improvements; and



 



   (iii)   That the Building or Structure will not have a materially
adverse safety impact on the surrounding neighborhood.



 



   (iv)   That the site and/or existing improvements make strict
adherence to Paragraph (i) of Subdivision 10. of Subsection C. of Section
12.21 of this Code impractical or infeasible.



 



   (c)   Procedures.  An application pursuant to this Subdivision 28.
shall follow the procedures set forth in Section 12.28 C.1., 2. and 3. of
this Code.  Except that public hearings for fences, walls, and retaining
walls within required yards may not be required if the applicant submits with
the application the written approval of the owners of all properties
abutting, across the Street or alley from, or having a common corner with the
subject property.



 



   (1)   Import/Export (Haul Route) Review.  Upon filing an
application pursuant to this Subdivision 28. for the import or export of
earth materials pursuant to the authority granted in Subparagraph (5) of
Paragraph (a) of this Subdivision, the Zoning Administrator shall request
that the General Manager of the Department of Transportation investigate the
circumstances of the proposed import or export of earth materials and the
effect thereof upon the public health, safety, and welfare.  The Zoning
Administrator shall request the City Engineer to determine the effect of any
import or export on the structural integrity of the public Streets and to
determine the effect on public safety relative to Street alignment, width,
and Grade.



 



   In taking action on such Zoning Administrator Determination, the Zoning
Administrator shall impose conditions of approval to mitigate any detrimental
effects of the hauling operations necessary to import or export earth,
including but not limited to: limiting truck weight, length and/or speed; and
other conditions of approval as may be necessary to ensure repair of damages
to public Streets along the hauling route that may reasonably be expected to
be caused by hauling operations.  Such additional conditions may include a
condition that the developer shall file a bond for the benefit of the City. 
Any such bond shall be in a form approved by the City Attorney, executed by
the developer and a corporate surety authorized to do business in the State
in an amount sufficient to cover the repair of any damage to the public
Streets reasonably expected to be caused by the hauling operations.  The
conditions of the bond shall guarantee to indemnify the City for all costs
and expense in repairing the damaged Streets or other public facilities.  In
lieu of a surety bond, the developer may file a cash bond with the Department
upon the same terms and conditions and in an amount equal to that which would
be required in the surety bond.  The deposit submitted may be in the form of
cash or negotiable United States securities.  The term of such effect until
the completion of the hauling operations and subsequent inspection of the
affected public Streets by the Department of Public Works.



 



   (d)   Conditions for Approval.  In approving the uses and
activities authorized in this Subdivision, the Zoning Administrator may
impose those conditions he or she deems necessary to remedy a disparity of
privileges and that are necessary to protect the public health, safety or
welfare and assure compliance with the objectives of the General Plan and the
purpose and intent of the zoning.



 



   29.   Historical Vehicle Collection.  (Added by Ord. No. 182,095,
Eff. 5/7/12.)  A Zoning Administrator may allow the maintenance of a
Historic Vehicle Collection as an accessory use.  In addition to the
findings set forth in Section 12.24 E., the Zoning Administrator shall find:



 



   (a)   that all the historic vehicles and parts maintained in outdoor
storage, whether currently licensed or unlicensed, or whether operable or
inoperable constitute an Historic Vehicle Collection;



 



   (b)   the Historic Vehicle Collection occupies less than 50 percent
of the area of the lot for lots comprising 10,000 square feet or less, or 70
percent of the area of the lot for lots comprising more than 10,000 square
feet.



 



   (c)   the Historic Vehicle Collection is fully screened from
ordinary public view by means of a suitable fence, trees, shrubbery, opaque
covering or other appropriate means;



 



   (d)   no portion of the Historic Vehicle Collection is located
within five feet of any building or within any side yards required by this
Code; and



 



   (e)   plans for the maintenance of the Historic Vehicle Collection
have been submitted to and approved by the Zoning Administrator in accordance
with the procedures in Section 12.28 C.1., 2. and 3. and subject to the same
fees as in Section 19.01 E. for relief from fence height limitation.



 



   30.   Reduced Parking in a Modified Parking Requirement (MPR)
District.  (Added by Ord. No. 182,242, Eff. 10/9/12.)  A Zoning
Administrator may, upon application, reduce the number of off-street parking
spaces required by Section 12.21 A.4. of this Code, provided that the project
is located within a Modified Parking Requirement (MPR) District established
through the application of Section 13.15 of this Code, and provided further
that the MPR District authorizes the Zoning Administrator to reduce the
number of off-street parking spaces.



 



   31.   Pet Shops.  (Added by Ord. No. 186,372, Eff. 12/10/19.)



 



   (a)   A Zoning Administrator, upon application, may permit Pet Shops
in the CR, C1, and C1.5 Zones; or Pet Shops in the C2, C4, C5, or CM Zones
that do not meet the development and operation standards in Section 12.14
A.1.(b)(4) of this Code.



 



   (b)   Procedures.  An application pursuant to this subdivision
shall follow the procedures for adjustments set forth in Section 12.28 C.1.,
2., and 3. of this Code.  A hearing is not required if the applicant submits
with the application the written approval of the owners of all properties
abutting, across the street or alley from, or having a common corner with the
subject property.



 



   Y.   Special Permission for Reduction of Off-Street Parking Spaces
by the Director.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.) A reduction
in the number of off-street parking spaces required by Section 12.21 A.4. may
be permitted by the Director as the initial decision-maker or by the Area
Planning Commission as the appellate body.  The procedures for decisions on
these uses shall be the same as those for variances as provided in Section
12.27 B. in addition to those set out below, except that the initial
decision-maker shall be the Director, there is only one level of appeal and
the findings necessary to grant the reduction shall be that the action is in
conformity with the public necessity, convenience, general welfare and good
zoning practice and that the action will be in substantial conformance with
the various elements and objectives of the General Plan.



 



   If the Director finds that a commercial or industrial building is
located on a lot not more than 1,500 feet distant from the portal of a fixed
rail transit station, or bus station, or other similar transit facility, then
the required number of parking spaces for that commercial or industrial
building shall be decreased by ten percent of the number otherwise required
by Section 12.21 A.4.(c).  If the Director makes this finding, then no more
than 90 percent of the parking spaces required by Section 12.21 A.4.(c) of
this subdivision are required to be provided on the lot.  The 1,500-foot
distance shall be measured as specified in Section 12.21 A.4.(g).  A portal
shall be defined as the street-level entrance, exit or escalator of a transit
station.



 



   A station may be used as the basis of a reduction if the Director
decides that it is currently in use; that a full funding contract for a
proposed station’s location and portals have been signed by all funding
partners; or that a resolution to fund a preferred alignment has been adopted
by the Los Angeles County Transportation Commission by a resolution detailing
specific stations and portal locations.  Before approving a parking
reduction application filed pursuant to this subdivision, a Director shall
find that the surrounding area will not be adversely affected by overflow
parking or traffic congestion originating or terminating at the lot, and that
the reduction will not otherwise be materially detrimental to the public
welfare or injurious to the properties or improvements in the surrounding
area.



 



   In the following cases, an application pursuant to this subsection
shall be set for public hearing and notice shall be given pursuant to Section
12.27 C.:



 



   (i)   when it can reasonably be anticipated that approval of the
application could have a significant adverse effect on adjoining properties
or on the immediate neighborhood; or



 



   (ii)   when the application is likely to evoke public controversy. 
In all other cases an application pursuant to this subdivision need not be
set for public hearing, unless the Director determines that a hearing would
further the public interest.



 



   A copy of each application shall be promptly submitted to the
Councilmember of the district in which the property is located.



 



   Z.   Revocation.  (Amended by Ord. No. 183,581, Eff. 7/4/15.)  If
the applicant fails to comply with the conditions of any conditional use or
other similar quasi-judicial approvals granted pursuant to this section, the
Director or the appropriate Area or City Planning Commission (if the approval
or conditional use was granted by an Area or City Planning Commission), upon
knowledge of the fact of non-compliance, may give notice to the record owner
or lessee of the real property affected to appear at a time and place fixed
by the Area or City Planning Commission or Director and show cause why the
decision granting the approval or conditional use should not be repealed or
rescinded.  The City Planning Commission may delegate its authority in this
matter to the Director.



 



   1.   Hearing and Decision.  After the hearing, the Area or City
Planning Commission or the Director may revoke, temporarily suspend or impose
further restrictions on the conditional use or other similar quasi-judicial
approval.  An appeal from this revocation action may be taken to the City
Council in the same manner prescribed in Subsection I.  The City Council's
decision on appeal shall be reviewable as an approval of a conditional use or
other similar quasi-judicial approval in the manner prescribed in Subsection
I.6.



 



   After revocation, the property affected shall be subject to all the
regulations of the zone in which the property is located, as provided in this
article.



 



   2.   Fees.  A fee as set forth in Section 19.01 of this Code shall
be paid to the City within 30 days of the effective date of the decision by
the Director or Area or City Planning Commission.  If an appeal is filed and
the decision of the Director or Area or City Planning Commission is upheld by
the City Council on appeal, then the fee required by this subsection shall be
paid in full within 30 days of the effective date of the final decision. 
However, if the City Council reverses the decision of the Director or Area or
City Planning Commission then no payment of fees other than the appeal fee
specified in Section 19.01 P. shall be required.



 



   AA.   Additional Revocation Authority.  The Director may require
the modification, discontinuance, or revocation of any conditional use or
other similar quasi-judicial approval granted in accordance with the
procedure in this section in the manner prescribed in Section 12.27.1.  In
the event of a revocation, the property affected by the revocation shall be
subject to all the regulations of the zone in which the property is located,
as provided in this article.



 



 



SEC. 12.24.1.  LAND USE DETERMINATION BY CITY PLANNING COMMISSION.



   (Title Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)



 



   A.   Purpose.  The principal objective of the Land Use Element of
the General Plan is to provide for the proper location of all types of land
use. Among those land use categories which are necessary to the public
health, safety, welfare and convenience are Public, Quasi-Public,
Public/Quasi-Public Use, Other Public and Open Space. Physical development in
these areas is intended to be used in a manner consistent with such
designated purposes. This principle also applies to property shown, on the
land use map of the General Plan as having existing lakes, waterways,
reservoirs, debris basins, or similar facilities, or as the location of a
freeway right-of-way; and to any property annexed to the City of Los Angeles
where a Plan amendment was not adopted as part of the annexation proceedings.
Any other use of these parcels requires special consideration as to its
appropriateness in relation to adjacent uses, to the development of the
community, and to the various Elements of the General Plan. Therefore, the
development of such locations shall be regulated by the following provisions
of this section.



 



   B.   Scope.  This section shall apply to any property designated by
the land use map of the applicable Community or District Plan for a land use
category of Public, Quasi-Public, Public/Quasi-Public Use, Other Public, or
Open Space, and to property shown on such map as having existing lakes,
waterways, reservoirs, debris basins, or similar facilities, or as the
location of a freeway right-of-way. This section shall also apply to any
property which was annexed to the City of Los Angeles where a Plan 
amendment was not adopted as part of the annexation proceedings.



 



   Notwithstanding the above, this section shall not apply to any of the
following:



 



   1.   The issuance of a building permit for any alteration,
remodeling or repair of an existing building or structure if such alteration
does not increase the height, floor area, number of occupants, dwelling
units, guest rooms, or parking previously existing for said building or
structure and does not change the use;



 



   2.   A use consisting of one single-family dwelling, including
accessory uses;



 



   3.   A residential use consisting of more than one dwelling units,
including accessory uses, which does not exceed 10% of the density permitted
by the zoning on said lot;



 



   4.   A nonresidential use permitted by the zoning of a lot, provided
that such, use (including all buildings, driveways, roadways, or other paved
or impermeable surfaces) does not cover more than 20% of the lot area, and
that any proposed buildings or structures do not exceed two stories or 25
feet in height;



 



   5.   Any valid conditional use, which has not expired;



 



   6.   Any tentative tract where a determination of consistency with
the General Plan was adopted or approved after January 1, 1979, and has not
expired, provided such action was taken subsequent to the adoption of the
Community or District Plan land use designation for the area involved;



 



   7.   Uses expressly exempted from the provisions of this section by
an ordinance changing the zone classification of a lot;



 



   8.   A use permitted by an ordinance establishing a Supplemental Use
District pursuant to Section 13.00et seq. of this Code;



 



   9.   Developments where a final determination of consistency with
the General Plan was made prior to June 1, 1988, pursuant to Sections 5 or 6
of Ordinance No 159,748, the Interim Permit Consistency Ordinance;



 



   10.   Parks, playgrounds or community centers, owned and operated by
a federal state or local governmental agency;



 



   11.   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.) 
Projects subject to Section 15.00 of this Code;



 



   12.   Property within the boundaries of the adopted Port of Los
Angeles District Plan and subject to the provisions of the adopted Port
Master Plan, which is a local coastal program implementing the provisions of
the California Coastal Act of 1976; and



 



   13.   Property for which a written determination of exception by the
Director of Planning pursuant to Subsection H. of this section has been
obtained.



 



   C.   Authority of City Planning Commission.  (Amended by Ord. No.
173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  If the City Planning Commission finds
that a lot is within the scope of this section, as set forth in Subsection
B., then the City Planning Commission may approve a use permitted by the
zoning of the lot if it finds that the proposed use at the proposed location
will be proper in relation to adjacent uses, desirable to the public
convenience or welfare and that the use and location will be consistent with
the objectives of the various elements of the General Plan.  In making a
determination of consistency, the City Planning Commission shall consider
whether the density, intensity, (i.e., floor area), height and use of the
proposed development are permitted by and compatible with the designated use,
density, intensity, height (or range of uses, densities, intensities or
heights) set forth for adjacent and surrounding properties on the land use
map of the applicable community or district plan and as those designations
are further explained by any footnotes on the map and the text of the plan.



 



   D.   Conditions of Approval.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff.
7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  In granting an approval of a use pursuant to this
section, the City Planning Commission may impose conditions as it deems
necessary to protect the best interests of the surrounding property or
neighborhood, to assure that the proposed use will be compatible with land
uses, zoning classifications, and other restrictions of adjacent and
surrounding properties, and to secure an appropriate development in harmony
with the objectives of the General Plan.



 



   E.   Procedure and Appeal.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff.
7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  The procedures for approval and appeal of any land
use determination pursuant to this section shall be by the City Planning
Commission as the initial decision-maker or the Council as the appellate
body.  The procedures for reviewing deciding on applications shall be those
in Section 12.24 B. through Q. of this Code.  A land use determination made
pursuant to this section shall be deemed a conditional use for and subject to
the provisions of Sections 12.24 U., 12.24 Z., and 12.24 AA. of this Code.



 



   F.   Existing Uses.  For any lot or portion thereof being lawfully
used at the time this section becomes effective, such use shall be deemed to
be an approved use for purposes of this section. Further, the conditions
included in any special district ordinance, exception or variance which
authorizes such use shall also continue in effect.



 



   G.   Development, Change or Discontinuance of Uses.



 



   1.   Development of Site.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff.
7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  On any lot or portion of a lot on which a use is
permitted pursuant to the provisions of this section, new buildings or
structures may be erected, enlargements may be made to existing buildings,
and existing uses may be extended on an approved site, provided plans are
submitted to and approved by the City Planning Commission.



 



   The City Planning Commission may delegate to the Director of Planning
the authority to approve on behalf of the City Planning Commission plans for
the development of an approved use site.  If this authority is delegated,
the City Planning Commission shall establish reasonable guidelines and
policies to be followed in the exercise of this delegated authority. (Para.
Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)



 



   Any person submitting development plans, or any other person aggrieved
by a determination of the Director or his duly authorized representative made
relative to the approval or disapproval of a development plan may appeal said
determination to the City Planning Commission. Such appeal shall be in
writing upon forms provided by the Department of City Planning. Such appeal
shall set forth specifically the basis of the appeal and the reasons why the
determination should be reversed or modified. Such appeal shall be filed
within 15 days from the date of mailing of the director’s determination.



 



   2.   Reduction of Site.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00,
Oper. 7/1/00.)  So long as the use permitted by this section is continued,
the entire approved site shall be retained for that use, and no portion of
the site shall be severed or utilized for other purposes unless the plans for
the reduced site are first submitted to and approved by the City Planning
Commission.



 



   The determination of the City Planning Commission on a proposed
reduction of the area of an approved site shall be subject to the same appeal
as is provided for an application to establish the use.  (Para. Amended by
Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)



 



   3.   Conditions of Approval.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff.
7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  In connection with the approval of use plans, the
City Planning Commission may impose conditions on the same basis as provided
for in this section for the establishment of new uses.



 



   4.   Change of Use. No use approved under this section may be
changed to a different type of use unless the new use is authorized in
accordance with the procedure prescribed in this section for the
establishment of a use.



 



   5.   Discontinuance of Use. If a use is abandoned, or is
discontinued for a period of one year, it may not thereafter be reestablished
unless authorized in accordance with the procedure  prescribed in this
section for the establishment of a use.



 



   H.   Exception. Notwithstanding any provisions of this section to
the contrary, a lot is excepted from the provisions of this section if the
Director of Planning, pursuant to an application therefor, makes the
following findings:



 



   1.   that the General Plan/Zoning Consistency Program has been
completed for the subject property;



 



   2.   that the subject property is designated on the applicable
Community or District Plan land use map as Public, Quasi-Public,
Public/Quasi-Public Use, Other Public, or Open Space; that the density,
intensity (i.e., floor area), height and use of the proposed development are
permitted by and consistent with the designated use, density, intensity,
height set forth for all adjacent and surrounding properties on the land use
map of the applicable Community or District Plan, and as such designations
are further explained by any footnotes on the map and the text of such Plan;
and



 



   3.   that the density, intensity (i.e., floor area), height and use
of the proposed development are permitted by and consistent with the
designated use, density, intensity, height set forth for all adjacent and
surrounding properties on the land use map of the applicable Community or
District Plan, and as such designations are further explained by any
footnotes on the map and the text of such Plan; and



 



   4.   that at the time of the completion of the General Plan/Zoning
Consistency Program, the subject property was not owned or operated by any
federal, state, or local governmental agency.



 



   The Director shall also make a finding as to the use of the subject
property at the time of the completion of the General Plan/Zoning Consistency
Program for the subject property. If the Director finds that the property was
vacant or undeveloped land or was being used for any of the following uses,
then the Director shall disapprove the exception request:



 



   (i)   Park;



 



   (ii)   Recreation Site;



 



   (iii)   School, including College;



 



   (iv)   Golf Course, or Club;



 



   (v)   Natural Resource Preserve;



 



   (vi)   Public or Private Beach;



 



   (vii)   Lake, Waterway, Reservoir; Debris Basin, or Similar
Facilities;



 



   (viii)   Freeway rights-of-way;



 



   (ix)   Street ; or



 



   (x)   Public Utility rights-of-way (not including railroad 
rights-of-way).



 



   I.   Map Symbol.  A pound symbol, “#”, or other appropriate
designation, may be placed on the Zoning Map at the conclusion of the General
Plan/Zoning Consistency Program for a Community or District Plan area. A
pound symbol on the Zoning Map indicates that the Director of Planning has
determined the properties so marked are designated by the land use map of the
applicable Community or District Plan, for Public, Quasi–Public,
Public/Quasi–Public Use, Other Public, or Open Space use. A pound symbol
may also indicate that the Director has determined the properties so marked
are shown on such District or Community Plan maps as being lakes, waterways,
reservoirs, debris basins, or similar facilities, or as the location of a
freeway right-of-way.



 



   The purpose of this symbol is to provide assistance to the public and
appropriate City agencies in the administration of this section. It does not
change the zoning classification of the parcel.



 



   However, if the Director determines that a pound symbol has been placed
on the Zoning Map as a result of an error, then he shall make a written
finding to that effect and authorize such correction to the map as may be
necessary. The fact that a property or use comes within an exception under
Subsection B. of this section does not require the removal of a pound symbol
from the Zoning Map.



 



   A property which is designated on a District or Community Plan in a
manner which causes it to be subject to the provisions of this section shall
be governed by this section whether or not the Zoning Map bears a pound
symbol for that property.



 



 



SEC. 12.25.  TIME LIMITATIONS.



   (Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 182,106, Eff. 5/20/12.)



 



   A.   Utilization of Approvals.



 



   1.   Expiration.  Any approval by the Zoning Administrator,
Director of Planning, an Area Planning Commission, or the City Planning
Commission as initial decision-makers, pursuant to the provisions of Chapter
I of this Code or any ordinance adopted pursuant to Chapter I of this Code,
that has not been utilized within three years of its effective date shall
become null and void.  When approvals are granted as part of a project
requiring multiple approvals, however, the expiration periods set forth in
Section 12.36 of this Code shall govern.



 



   2.   Utilization.  An approval shall be considered utilized when a
valid permit from the Department of Building and Safety has been issued and
construction work has begun and been carried on diligently without
substantial suspension or abandonment of work.  An approval not requiring
permits for construction or alteration from the Department of Building and
Safety shall be considered utilized when operations of the use authorized by
the approval have commenced.



 



   3.   Exceptions.  The following exceptions shall apply:



 



   a.   Religious and Institutional Uses.  Where a lot or lots have
been approved for use as a governmental enterprise, religious use, hospital,
educational institution or private school, including elementary and high
schools, no time limit to utilize the privileges shall apply provided that
all of the following conditions are met:



 



   (1)   The property involved is acquired or legal proceedings for its
acquisition are commenced within one year of the effective date of the
decision approving the conditional use.



 



   (2)   A sign is immediately placed on the property indicating its
ownership and the purpose to which it is to be developed, as soon as legally
possible after the effective date of the decision approving the conditional
use.  This sign shall have a surface area of at least 20 square feet.



 



   (3)   The sign is maintained on the property and in good condition
until the conditional use privileges are utilized.



 



   b.   Approvals With Effective Dates Between July 15, 2005, and
December 31, 2010.  The expiration period of any approval by the Zoning
Administrator, Director of Planning, an Area Planning Commission, or the City
Planning Commission as initial decision-makers (as well as any approval by a
Deputy Advisory Agency acting in the capacity as a Zoning Administrator or as
the Director of Planning's designee), pursuant to the provisions of Chapter I
of this Code or any ordinance adopted pursuant to Chapter I of this Code,
shall automatically be increased by 60 months if the effective date of
approval was July 15, 2005, through December 31, 2007; by 48 months if the
effective date of approval was January 1, 2008, through December 31, 2008;
and 24 months if the effective date of approval was January 1, 2009, through
December 31, 2010, provided that the Director makes a written finding that
the prior discretionary approval and the required environmental review
considered significant aspects of the approved project and that the existing
environmental documentation under the California Environmental Quality Act is
adequate for the issuance of the extension.  This one-time extension of time
supersedes any previous extensions of time granted pursuant to Ordinances
Nos. 180,647 and/or 181,269.



 



   B.   Planning and Zoning Matters in Litigation.  The time limits
set forth in Subsection A. above shall not include any time period during
which the approval or the environmental clearance for the approval is
challenged in court.



 



   C.   California Coastal Commission Approvals.  The time limits set
forth in Subsection A. above shall not include any time period during which
the subdivider or applicant is awaiting a land use approval from the
California Coastal Commission.  The subdivider or applicant shall submit a
written request for a suspension of time and a copy of the submitted
California Coastal Commission application for such approval to the Department
of City Planning within ten days of filing the application with the
California Coastal Commission.  Suspensions of time shall be automatically
granted until the California Coastal Commission has rendered a final decision
on the application, including any appeal period.  The subdivider or
applicant shall submit a copy of the California Coastal Commission's final
action to the Department of City Planning within ten days of the final
decision.



 



 



SEC. 12.26.  DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING AND SAFETY.



 



   A.   Enforcement. The Department is granted the power to enforce the
zoning ordinances of the City.  (First Sentence Amended by Ord. No. 173,268,
Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)



 



   1.   Zoning Information – The Department of Building and Safety
shall maintain a public information bureau relative to zoning matters.



 



   2.   Permits – No permit pertaining to the use of land or
buildings shall be issued by any department, officer, or employee of this
City, vested with such duty, unless the application for the permit has been
approved by the Department of Building and Safety as to conformance of said
use with the provisions of this chapter. Any permit or certificate of
occupancy, issued in conflict with the provisions of this chapter shall be
null and void.



 



   3.   Vesting of Development Plan.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492,
Eff. 10/10/00.) Whenever plans sufficient for a complete plan check are
accepted by the Department of Building and Safety and a fee is paid, a vested
right is granted to the project to proceed with its development in
substantial compliance with the zoning, and development rules, regulations,
ordinances and adopted policies of the City of Los Angeles in force on the
date that the plan check fee is paid as indicated on a valid building permit
application. These rights shall not include exemption from other applications
or approvals that may be necessary to entitle the project to proceed (i.e.,
subdivision, zone variance, design review board review, etc.) and from
subsequent changes in the Building and Safety and Fire regulations found
necessary by the City Council to protect the public health and safety and
which are applicable on a citywide basis, contained in Chapters V and IX of
this Code and policies and standards relating to those chapters or from
citywide programs enacted after the application is deemed complete to
implement State or Federal mandates.



 



   These rights shall end:  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,106, Eff. 5/20/12.)



 



   (a)   18 months after the plan check fee is paid, or if a permit is
issued during that time, when the building permit terminates pursuant to
Section 98.0602;



 



   (b)   when subsequent changes are made to those plans that increase
or decrease the height, floor area, or occupant load of the
proposed-structure by more than five percent;



 



   (c)   when the use of the property is changed;



 



   (d)   when changes exceed or violate the Zoning Code regulations in
force on the date the plan check fee was paid; or



 



   (e)   when the discretionary land use approval for the project
terminates under the provisions of Chapter 1 of this Code or any ordinance
adopted pursuant to Chapter 1 of this Code.



 



   B.   Yard Area Modifications  (Amended by Ord. No. 170,141, Eff.
1/2/95.) - Section 98.0403.1(a)11. of the Los Angeles Municipal Code provides
in part that:



 



   “The Department shall have the power to hear and determine requests
for slight modifications for individual cases in the yard area requirements
of the zoning ordinance, provided that in each such modification, the
Superintendent shall first find that a special, individual reason makes the
strict letter of the ordinance impractical and that the modification is in
conformity with the spirit and purpose of the ordinance involved.  Any
action granting a modification shall be recorded and entered in the files of
the Department.



 



   “For structures and additions constructed after January 1, 1995,
slight modifications from the yard requirements shall be limited to
deviations permitting portions of buildings to extend into a required yard or
other open space a distance of not to exceed 20 percent of the width or depth
of such required yard or open space.  However, for structures and additions
existing prior to January 1, 1995, slight modifications may be granted for
yard deviations slightly over 20 percent.



 



   “Except as expressly provided herein, the Superintendent of Building
shall not grant deviations from the lot area, height, or density
requirements.  Further, the Superintendent shall not grant deviations from
the yard requirements relating to the height of fences and walls, or
including those for tennis or paddle tennis courts and other game courts.



 



   “If the yard regulations cannot reasonably be complied with or it is
difficult to determine their application on lots of peculiar shape or
location, then the regulations may be modified or determined by the
Superintendent of Building.  The Superintendent may also waive all or part
of the required loading space on unusually shaped lots, oddly located lots,
or hillside lots, when such space cannot reasonably be provided or utilized.



 



   “Requests for yard modifications as provided in this subsection shall
be made in accordance with the procedures established in Section 98.0403.2 of
the Los Angeles Municipal Code.”



 



   C.   Parking Facility Modifications.  (Amended by Ord. No. 185,480,
Eff. 5/9/18.)  The Superintendent of Building or the Superintendent's
designee may grant slight modifications in the requirements of Sections 12.21
A.5. and 12.21 A.16. of this Code if it is impractical to apply the design
criteria set forth therein due to the unusual topography, peculiar shape of
location of the lot, or where parking angles are less than 40 degrees.  The
Superintendent of Building may also grant slight modifications in such
requirements where such modifications will improve the design or functioning
of the parking area or garage, or where attendant parking is ensured to his
or her satisfaction.



 



   The power to grant such modifications shall be exercised in accordance
with the procedure established in Section 98.0403 of this Code.



 



   D.   Inspection Of Premises – Whenever it is necessary to make an
inspection to enforce any of the provisions or to perform any duty imposed by
this Code or other applicable law, or whenever the Superintendent of Building
or his authorized representative has reasonable cause to believe that there
exists in any building or upon any premises any violation of the provisions
of this Article or other applicable law, the Superintendent of Building or
his authorized representative is hereby authorized to enter such property at
any reasonable time and to inspect the same and perform any duty imposed upon
the General Manager by this Code or other applicable law, provided that: 
(Amended by Ord. No. 142,306, Eff. 9/13/71, Operative 2/9/72.)



 



   (1)   if such property be occupied, he shall first present proper
credentials to the occupant and request entry explaining his reasons
therefor; and



 



   (2)   if such property be unoccupied, he shall first make a
reasonable effort to locate the owner or other persons having charge or
control of the property and request entry, explaining his reasons therefor.
If such entry is refused or cannot be obtained because the owner or other
person having charge or control of the property cannot be found after due
diligence, the Superintendent of Building or his authorized representative
shall have recourse to every remedy provided by law to secure lawful entry
and inspect the property.



 



   E.   Certificate Of Occupancy.  No vacant land shall be occupied or
used, except for agricultural uses, and no building erected or structurally
altered shall be occupied or used until a certificate of occupancy shall have
been issued by the Superintendent of Building. (Amended by Ord. No. 142,306,
Eff. 9/13/71, Operative 2/9/72.)



 



   1.   Certificate of Occupancy for a Building.



 



   (a)   A certificate of occupancy for a new building or the
enlargement or alteration of an existing building shall be applied for
coincident with the application for a building permit.  The certificate of
occupancy shall be issued after the request for it has been made in writing
to the Superintendent of Building after the erection, enlargement or
alteration of the building or part of the building has been completed in
conformity with the provisions of these regulations.  (First and Second
Sentences Amended by Ord. No. 177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.)  Pending the issuance
of a regular certificate, a temporary certificate of occupancy may be issued
by the Superintendent of Building for a period not to exceed six months,
during the completion of alterations or during partial occupancy of a
building pending its completion. Such temporary certificate shall not be
construed as in any way altering the respective rights, duties, or
obligations of the owners or of the City relating to the use or occupancy of
the premises or any other matter covered by this chapter, and such temporary
certificate shall not be issued except under such restrictions and provisions
as will adequately insure the safety of the occupants.



 



   (b)   Whenever the automobile parking spaces which are required for
a building by the provisions of this Article, are provided on a lot other
than the one on which the building is located, the certificate of occupancy
for said building shall be valid only while such parking spaces are being so
maintained and shall bear a notation to that effect. Said certificate shall
be kept posted in a conspicuous place in the building. The Superintendent of
Building shall keep a record of each lot on which required automobile parking
spaces are provided for a building located on another lot, and whenever he
finds that such automobile parking spaces are no longer so maintained, he
shall notify the persons having custody of the building of that fact. If at
any time such automobile parking spaces are not being maintained, the
certificate of occupancy shall automatically be cancelled and said building
shall not thereafter be occupied or used until the required automobile
parking spaces are again provided and a new certificate is issued.



 



   (c)   Whenever a lot abutting a public alley in the “C” Zone is
developed and used solely for dwelling or apartment house purposes with no
more than 20 dwelling units on the lot and no loading space is provided, the
certificate of occupancy for any building thereon shall be valid only while
all the buildings on said lot are maintained for said use and the certificate
shall bear a notation to that effect. If at any time any of the buildings on
said lot are structurally altered or enlarged, or the use thereof is changed
to a hospital, hotel, institution, commercial or industrial purposes, or a
dwelling or apartment house so as to exceed 20 dwelling units on the lot, the
certificate shall automatically be cancelled and none of the buildings on
said lot shall thereafter be occupied or used until the required loading
space is provided and a new certificate is issued.  (Added by Ord. No.
130,952, Eff. 11/8/65.)



 



   (d)   Wherever authority is granted to permit the sale of a lot in a
residential planned development contingent upon the possession of an interest
in common areas and facilities which are appurtenant to said lot, The
Certificate of Occupancy for buildings on said lot shall be valid only while
said interest is held by the owner. Said interest may be through shares of
stock or voting membership in an owners association. (Added by Ord. No.
141,474, Eff. 2/27/71.)



 



   2.   Certificate of Occupancy for Land — A certificate of
occupancy for the use of vacant land or a change in the character of the use
of land, including the construction of tennis or paddle tennis courts, as
herein provided, shall be applied for before any such land shall be occupied
or used for any purpose except that of tilling the soil and the growing
therein of farm, garden or orchard products; and a certificate of occupancy
shall be issued after the application has been made, provided such use is in
conformity with the provisions of the Municipal Code. (Amended by Ord. No.
151,466, Eff. 10/27/78.)



 



   3.   Certificate of Occupancy - Contents - Filing Fee.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 168,439, Eff. 2/2/93.)  The Certificate of Occupancy shall state
that the building or proposed use of a building or land conforms to the
provisions of this chapter.  A record of all certificates shall be kept on
file in the office of the Superintendent of Building, and copies shall be
furnished, on request, to any person having a proprietary or tenancy interest
in the building or land affected.  A fee shall be charged for each original
certificate of occupancy pursuant to Subdivision 10. of Subsection (b) of
Section 91.0304 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.



 



   No excavation for any building shall be started before application has
been made for a certificate of occupancy.



 



   4.   Plats – All applications for a certificate of occupancy shall
be made on a printed form to be furnished by the Superintendent of Building,
and shall contain accurate information and dimensions as to the size and
location of the lot, the size and location of the buildings or structures on
the lot, the dimensions of all yards and open spaces, and such other
information as may be necessary to provide for the enforcement of these
regulations. Where complete and accurate information is not readily available
from existing records, the Superintendent of Building may require the
applicant to furnish a survey of the lot prepared by a licensed surveyor. The
applications and plats shall be kept in the office of the Superintendent of
Building, and the duplicate copy shall be kept at the building at all times
during construction.



 



   5.   Recorded Agreements.  (Amended by Ord. No. 111,049, Eff.
5/3/58.) Whenever the off-street automobile parking spaces required by this
section are provided on a different lot from that on which the use they are
to serve is located, as a prerequisite to the issuance of the required
building permit or certificate of occupancy, the owner or owners of said lot
on which parking is to be provided shall record an agreement in the Office of
the County Recorder of Los Angeles County, California, as a covenant running
with the land for the benefit of the City of Los Angeles, providing that such
owner or owners shall continue to maintain said parking spaces so long as the
building or use they are intended to serve is maintained.



 



   Whenever the total floor area permitted on a lot is to be included in a
building which will not cover the entire buildable area of the lot, as a
prerequisite to the issuance of the required building permit, the owner or
owners of record of said lot shall record in the office of the County
Recorder of Los Angeles County, California, a covenant running with the land
for the benefit of the City of Los Angeles providing that so long as said
building is maintained on said lot said owner or owners will not erect any
additional buildings on the unoccupied buildable area of the lot.



 



   F.   Auto Dismantling Yards, Junk Yards, Scrap Metal or Recycling
Materials Processing Yards, Recycling Collection and/or Buyback Centers,
Recycling Materials Sorting Facilities and Cargo Container Storage Yards. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 177,244, Eff. 2/18/06.)



 



   1.   Definitions.  As used in this subsection, the following terms
are defined as follows:



 



   (a)   BOARD.  The Board of Building and Safety Commissioners.



 



   (b)   DEPARTMENT.  The Los Angeles Department of Building and
Safety.



 



   (c)   RECYCLING CENTER.  Any recycling collection or buyback site,
recycling sorting facility, or other recycling oriented site which does not
do any processing other than mechanical compaction to reduce the volume of
recyclable containers for economy of storage.



 



   (d)   SUPERINTENDENT.  The Superintendent of Building or his or her
authorized representative.



 



   (e)   YARD.  Any automobile or truck dismantling yard, junk yard,
scrap metal or recycling materials processing yard or cargo container storage
yard or any open storage location where used materials and equipment of any
kind, including vehicles, boats, or airplanes, which are inoperable, wrecked,
damaged, or unlicensed, i.e., not currently licensed by the Department of
Motor Vehicles, are stored or processed.  (Amended by Ord. No. 177,244, Eff.
2/18/06.)



 



   2.   Applicability.  The provisions of this subsection shall apply
to every recycling center or yard operating pursuant to a valid certificate
of occupancy. In addition, these provisions shall be applicable to every
recycling center or yard operating with nonconforming status pursuant to
Section 12.23 of this Code, and as to such recycling centers or yards, any
revocation proceedings authorized by these provisions shall be deemed to be
proceedings to revoke and void any rights otherwise granted by Section 12.23
of this Code.



 



   3.   Annual Inspections.  The Department shall make an inspection
of each recycling center or yard at least once a year to verify compliance
with all applicable provisions of this Code.  An annual inspection fee as
specified in Section 98.0402(e) of the Code shall be paid by each business
operator or property owner to the Department.  The business operator and the
property owner of every site under the jurisdiction of this section shall be
notified of all fees, fines, penalties, costs, or other assessments resulting
from enforcement of this section and are jointly and severally responsible to
ensure that code compliance is maintained, at all times, and that payment of
all fees, fines, penalties, costs, or other assessments due for each
qualifying business as specified by this section, is made to the
Department.  If all fees, fines, penalties, costs or other assessments due
pursuant to this section are not paid, a lien may be placed upon the property
as provided for in Section 98.0402(g) of the Code and Los Angeles
Administrative Code section 7.35.1et seq.  In addition, failure to pay all
fees, fines, penalties, costs or other assessments is sufficient cause to
institute a certificate of occupancy revocation hearing.  An inspection may
also be made whenever a complaint is received by the Department concerning a
violation of this Code or as needed to verify continued compliance with
applicable Code requirements.  Accessory storage only yards, where no
business is conducted, which are nearby but not contiguous with a main yard
may be approved and inspected with an additional fee of one half of the
annual inspection fee for each yard.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,033, Eff.
2/4/10.)



 



   4.   Order to Comply.  If a recycling center or yard that is
inspected is found to be in violation of any provision of this Code, the
Superintendent shall send an Order to Comply ("Order") to the owner of the
property and the operator of the recycling center or yard. The Order shall
clearly state the following:



 



   (a)   The violation must be corrected by a compliance date specified
in the Order, which date shall be no more than 30 days from the date the
Order is mailed;



 



   (b)   The compliance date as specified in the Order may be extended
for an additional period not to exceed 45 days if the owner or operator of
the recycling center or yard presents satisfactory evidence to the
Superintendent that unusual difficulties prevent substantial compliance
without an extension;



 



   (c)   Failure to correct the violation on or before the compliance
date or any authorized extension will lead to commencement of certificate of
occupancy revocation proceedings.  Such proceedings will terminate with a
revocation hearing, which hearing may only be avoided if the violation is
corrected and a fine paid according to the fine schedule in Subdivision 14.
of this subsection.



 



   5.   Re-inspection.  The Superintendent shall reinspect a recycling
center or yard for which an Order was issued pursuant to this subsection
subsequent to the compliance date or any authorized extension thereof.



 



   6.   Citation Authority Prior to Revocation Notice.  An arrest may
be made or citation issued pursuant to Sec. 98.0408 of this Code if the
violations noted in an Order are not corrected on or before the due date
noted upon such notice.  This action does not preclude the commencement of
certificate of occupancy revocation proceedings.



 



   7.   Failure to Correct Violation; Failure to Pay Inspection Fee;
Revocation Proceedings.  If any violation specified in an Order or citation
is not corrected prior to the compliance date or any extension thereof, or if
the annual inspection fee has not been paid within 60 days of assessment,
then certificate of occupancy revocation proceedings shall be commenced by
issuance of a Notice of Intent to Revoke ("Notice"), which shall be sent to
the owner of the property and the operator of the recycling center or yard
subsequent to any re-inspection pursuant to Subdivision 5. of this
subsection.  The Notice shall state the following:



 



   (a)   The date and place of the revocation hearing, which shall be
scheduled at least 15 days and not more than 90 days from the date of
issuance of the Notice.



 



   (b)   A list of all violations uncorrected as of the compliance date.



 



   (c)   Copies of all inspection reports related to these violations,
unless the copies were previously furnished to the owner or operator.



 



   (d)   Termination of revocation proceedings may only be obtained if
each violation noted in the Notice is corrected before the date of the
revocation hearing and if a specified fine is paid, which fine shall be fixed
in accordance with the fine schedule in Subdivision 14. of this subsection.



 



   (e)   The owner or operator is entitled to be represented by legal
counsel at any revocation hearing.



 



   (f)   Each violation of the Code and each day of  operation without
a certificate of occupancy is a misdemeanor.



 



   8.   Termination of Revocation Proceedings.  The Superintendent
shall terminate certificate of occupancy revocation proceedings upon a
finding that each violation of this Code specified in the Notice has been
corrected and the fine specified in such Notice has been paid.  Termination
may only occur on or before the date of the revocation hearing.



 



   9.   Revocation Hearing.  On the date specified in the Notice, a
certificate of occupancy revocation hearing shall be held.  The Board may
appoint a hearing examiner to conduct the hearing, which examiner shall not
be any individual who participated in the issuance of any of the Notices
required by this subsection.  Subpoenas may be issued pursuant to Section
98.0307 of this Code.  The hearing shall be conducted pursuant to the
provisions of Sections 98.0308 and 98.0309 of this Code.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 177,244, Eff. 2/18/06.)



 



   10.   Hearing Examiner's Report.  Within 30 days of the last day of
the revocation hearing, the hearing examiner shall report its findings and
recommendations in writing to the Board.



 



   11.   Board Determination.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,033, Eff.
2/4/10.)  Within 30 days of receipt of the Hearing Examiner's report, the
Board shall determine whether the certificate of occupancy shall be
revoked.  Revocation shall be ordered by the Board if it finds that any
required fees, fines, penalties, costs or other assessments have not been
paid or any of the violations specified in the Order have not been corrected,
except for the circumstances stated below.



 



   The Board may, in its discretion, determine that a certificate of
occupancy should not be revoked if it makes both of the following findings:



 



   (a)   Taken together, the remaining uncorrected violations specified
in the Order, do not have an adverse effect on neighboring properties or on
the general public; and



 



   (b)   The owner or operator of the yard has paid the fine specified
in Subdivision 14. of this subsection with respect to all violations listed
in the Notice of Revocation.



 



   In making its determination, the Board may hear from the owner,
operator, or other interested party.  The determination of the Board is
final.



 



   12.   Loss of Non-Conforming Rights.  Notwithstanding any provision
of this Code to the contrary, where a certificate of occupancy is revoked
pursuant to this subsection, a new certificate of occupancy for the property
may only be issued if all requirements of the Code in effect at the time of
issuance of the new certificate are satisfied.  In the case of a site which
has no valid certificate of occupancy any and all rights which may be granted
by Sec. 12.23 of this Code are revoked.



 



   13.   Appeals.  Notwithstanding any provision of the Code to the
contrary, there shall be no appeal to the Board of Building and Safety
Commissioners from any Order issued or determination made by the
Superintendent pursuant to this Subsection F.



 



   14.   Fine Schedule.  The fine for each violation listed in the
Notice shall be as specified in Section 98.0402(f)2. of the Code.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 181,033, Eff. 2/4/10.)



 



   15.   Repeat Violations.  Notwithstanding any provision of this
subsection to the contrary, if an Order is issued for violation of a
provision of the Code, and after compliance with it, a subsequent Order is
issued for a violation of the same provision occurring within one year of the
date of the initial notice:



 



   (a)   Each violation cited in a subsequent Order shall carry a fine
as specified in Section 98.0402(f)1. of the Code and shall be paid within 15
days of the compliance date of any subsequent order.  (Amended by Ord. No.
181,033, Eff. 2/4/10.)



 



   (b)   The compliance date for any such notice to comply shall be no
more than ten days from the date of mailing of such notice.



 



   (c)   No extension of the compliance date may be granted.



 



   (d)   The amounts set forth in the fine schedule in Subdivision 14
of this subsection shall be doubled if revocation proceedings were started
for any previous Order.



 



   16.   Parking of Vehicles in Custody of Any Yard.  No vehicle or
any part of any vehicle in the custody or possession, for any reason, of a
yard, as defined in this subsection, shall be parked, left standing, placed,
or stored outside of the approved enclosure on the lot on which the yard is
located, except that vehicles and parts may be stored within an approved
auxiliary storage yard.  In addition, all parking spaces on the lot and any
access driveways leading to the parking spaces, which are required by this
code, must be maintained clear and available only for parking of operative
vehicles.  (Added by Ord. No. 181,033, Eff. 2/4/10.)



 



   G.   Building Permits – No tennis or paddle tennis court accessory
to a primary residential use on the same lot in the A or R Zones shall be
constructed until application for a building permit therefor has been filed
with and issued by the Department of Building and Safety. (Added by Ord. No.
151,466, Eff. 10/27/78.)



 



   H.   Issuance of Citations by Designated Employees.  Employees of
the Department of Building and Safety specified in Section 98.0408 of this
Code shall have the powers, duties and immunities as set forth in said
section. (Added by Ord. No. 157,872, Eff. 8/12/83.)



 



   I.   Automotive Repair Garage and Used Vehicle Sales Areas. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 181,033*, Eff. 2/4/10.)



 



*Note: Except as otherwise further amended by Ord. No. 181,033, Subsec. I. is
amended by changing all references to the terms "Automotive Repair" or
"Repair Garage" to the term "Automotive Repair Garage" (see Sec. 6 of this
Ord.).



 



   1.   Definitions.  (Amended by Ord. No. 176,840, Eff. 9/4/05.)  As
used in this subsection, the following terms have the definitions specified
herein:



 



   (a)   Department.  The Department of Building and Safety.



 



   (b)   Board.  The Board of Building and Safety Commissioners.



 



   (c)   Used Vehicle Sales Area.  An area or lot where any type of
used motor vehicle or trailer is displayed for sale.



 



   (d)   Automotive Repair Garage.  All retail or wholesale uses which
are enumerated in the definition for "Automotive Repair" in Section 12.03 of
this Code, and, in addition, includes all testing, installation of vehicle
equipment or accessories, and the application of paint, sprayed coloring, or
other types of covering or the recovering of any part of a vehicle interior
or exterior.  Included in this definition are smog testing shops whether for
test only or for repairs, window tinting or replacement shops, application of
vinyl or similar covering materials, installation of parts or accessories on
the site of a parts store, and all other similar uses.  (Added by Ord. No.
181,033, Eff. 2/4/10.)



 



   2.   Applicability.  (Amended by Ord. No. 176,840, Eff. 9/4/05.)



 



   (a)   The provisions of this subsection shall apply to every
automotive repair garage use in the City of Los Angeles, including those in
existence prior to May 27, 1990, the effective date of Ordinance No. 165,798.



 



   (b)   The provisions of this subsection shall also apply to every
used vehicle sales area in the City of Los Angeles, including those in
existence prior to the effective date of this paragraph.



 



   Exception:  Used car sales areas operated in conjunction with and on
the same lot or on contiguous lots with a new car dealer are exempted from 
yearly inspections.



 



   3.   Minimum Standards.  (Amended by Ord. No. 176,840, Eff. 9/4/05.)



 



   (a)   All automotive repair garages shall comply with the following
minimum standards:



 



   (1)   All body and fender repairing when conducted within 300 feet
of an A or R Zone shall be done within a completely enclosed building or
room.  The doors of such building or room may be open during the following
hours:



 



   (i)   From 7 a.m. until 8 p.m. on Mondays through Fridays;



 



   (ii)   From 9 a.m. until 8 p.m. on Saturdays; and



 



   (iii)   From 11 a.m. until 8 p.m. on Sundays.



 



   At all other times, the doors of such building or room shall be closed,
except at intervals necessary for ingress and egress.



 



   (2)   All body and fender repairing when conducted within 150 feet
of an A or R Zone shall be done within a completely enclosed building or room
with stationary windows.  The doors of such building or room may be opened
only at intervals necessary for ingress and egress, except that garage bay
doors may be open during the hours of operation set forth in Paragraph (1) of
this subdivision, provided:



 



   (i)   A minimum 10-foot-high solid masonry fence or a minimum
10-foot-high intervening commercial or industrial building enclosed on at
least three sides is maintained at the property line adjacent to the A or R
Zone, or;



 



   (ii)   Doors facing a public street shall be closer to the property
line adjacent to the public street than the required yard setback of any
adjacent A or R Zone.



 



   (3)   All automotive spray painting shall be done in full compliance
with the provisions of Article 7 of Chapter 5 of the Code regulating these
installations; provided further, that no spray painting may be done except in
an approved spray booth or room approved for this use that is located within
a wholly enclosed building.  In the M2 or M3 Zone a spray booth approved for
use outside of a building may be utilized if allowed by all other
jurisdictions having authority over spray painting.  (Amended by Ord. No.
181,033, Eff. 2/4/10.)



 



   (4)   Except for allowable outside uses when conducted in the M2 or
M3 Zones, all other operations shall be conducted within a building enclosed
on at least three sides, except for the following, which may be conducted
within the first 18 feet in depth measured perpendicular to the entire length
of the building wall containing a garage bay door; said area shall not
displace any required parking:



 



   (i)   electrical diagnostics;



 



   (ii)   battery charging and changing;



 



   (iii)   tire removal and replacement, provided the vehicle is not
elevated more than 12-inches off the ground measured to the bottom of the
tire.  A portable hoist only, may be used for this purpose.



 



   (5)   If the building is located within 50 feet of a lot in an A or
R Zone with no intervening street, the wall of the building nearest such Zone
shall have no openings other than doors or stationary windows.  Such doors
shall be permitted only if the building is adjacent to an alley and may be
opened only at intervals necessary for ingress or egress.



 



   (6)   Automotive hoists, of any type or size, except as provided in
Paragraph (4)(iii) above or allowed and operated in an M2 or M3 Zone, shall
be located or operated only inside a fully enclosed building.



 



   (b)   All Used Vehicle Sales Areas shall comply with the following:



 



   (1)   All used vehicle sales areas established after January 1,
2005, shall provide supplemental customer parking, on site, of at least one
space for every 2,000 square feet of vehicle sales area.  This parking is in
addition to all other parking required for the lot and shall be conspicuously
posted and used for customer parking only.  There shall be a minimum of two
customer parking spaces provided for any used vehicle sales area.



 



   (2)   All repair work done on site must comply with the provisions
of this subsection whether or not the repairs are done on customer or dealer
owned vehicles.



 



   (3)   All other provisions of the Code which apply to used vehicle
sales must be complied with at all times.



 



   (4)   Exception:  Display of not more than three vehicles for
purposes of sale or trade, at any one time, which is accessory to an approved
use on the same lot and not occupying any required parking spaces, does not
require a separate certificate of occupancy, additional parking, or annual
inspection.



 



   (c)   Nothing in this section shall relieve any person from
complying with any applicable requirements contained in Sections 12.14,
80.73.1, 80.73.2 or any other provision of the Code.



 



   4.   Parking of Cars in Custody of Automotive Repair Garage or Used
Vehicle Sales Area.  (Title Amended by Ord. No. 181,033, Eff. 2/4/10.)  No
vehicle left in the custody or possession, for any reason, of an automotive
repair garage or used vehicle sales area shall be parked, left standing or
stored outside the lot on which the automotive repair garage or used vehicle
sales area is located, except that such vehicles may be stored within an
approved storage yard.  A responsible person shall be on the premises of
each automotive repair garage or used vehicle sales lot during the hours in
which the garage or lot is in operation. This person shall maintain current
records, in a manner that can be immediately supplied to any enforcement
agency upon request, stating the license plate number, vehicle identification
number and registered owner of each vehicle currently in the custody or
possession of the automotive repair garage or used vehicle sales lot for
purposes of repair, sales, trade, shipment or other disposition.  This
subdivision shall not apply to employees' vehicles used daily for
commuting.  (Amended by Ord. No. 176,840, Eff. 9/4/05.)



 



   5.   Annual Inspections.  The Department shall inspect the physical
facilities of each automotive repair garage or used vehicle sales area at
least once a year.  An annual inspection fee as specified in Section
98.0402(e) of the Code shall be paid by the business operator or property
owner to the Department.  The business operator and the property owner of
every site under the jurisdiction of this section shall be notified of all
fees, fines, penalties, costs, or other assessments resulting from
enforcement of this section and are jointly and severally responsible to
ensure that code compliance is maintained, at all times, and that payment of
all fees, fines, penalties, costs, or other assessments due, for each
qualifying business as specified by this section, is made to the
Department.  If all fees, fines, costs, penalties or other assessments due
under this Code are not paid, a lien may be placed upon the property as
provided for in Section 98.0402(g) of the Code and Los Angeles Administrative
Code Section 7.35.1et seq.  In addition, failure to pay all fees, fines,
penalties, costs or other assessments is sufficient cause to institute a
certificate of occupancy revocation hearing.  An inspection may also be made
whenever a complaint or referral is received by the Department concerning a
violation of this Code by an automotive repair garage or used vehicle sales
area or as necessary to verify continued compliance with all applicable Code
requirements.  Accessory storage only yards or buildings, where no business
is conducted, which are nearby but not contiguous with a main automotive
repair garage may be approved and inspected with an additional fee of
one-half of the annual inspection fee for the yard or building.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 181,033, Eff. 2/4/10.)



 



   6.   Order to Comply.  (Amended by Ord. No. 176,840, Eff. 9/4/05;
Renumbered by Ord. No. 181,033, Eff. 2/4/10.)  If the physical facilities of
an automotive repair garage or used vehicle sales area are found by the
Department to be in violation of Subdivision 3. or 4. of this subsection or
of any other provision of this article, the Department shall send an Order to
Comply ("Order") to the owner of the property and the operator of the
automotive repair garage or used vehicle sales area.



 



   The Order shall clearly state the following:



 



   (a)   The nature of the violation and the code section violated.



 



   (b)   That the violation must be corrected by a compliance date
specified in the order or any extension authorized pursuant to Subdivision 7.
of this subsection.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,033, Eff. 2/4/10.)



 



   (c)   That failure to correct the violation on or before the
compliance date or any authorized extension may result in commencement of
proceedings to revoke the certificate of occupancy.  These proceedings may
involve a revocation hearing.  A personal appearance at the hearing may only
be avoided if the violation is corrected and a fine paid according to the
fine schedule in Subdivision 16. of this subsection.  (Amended by Ord. No.
181,033, Eff. 2/4/10.)



 



   (d)   That an appeal may be filed from the order in the manner
provided by Subdivision 15. of this subsection.  (Amended by Ord. No.
181,033, Eff. 2/4/10.)



 



   7.   Time Limits for Compliance with Order.  (Amended by Ord. No.
176,840, Eff. 9/4/05; Renumbered by Ord. No. 181,033, Eff. 2/4/10.)



 



   (a)   The automotive repair garage or used vehicle sales area shall
comply with the Order described in Subdivision 6. of this subsection on or
before the compliance date specified in the order, or any authorized
extension.  The compliance date shall be not more than 30 days from the date
of the order.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,033, Eff. 2/4/10.)



 



   (b)   The Department may grant an extension of the compliance date
specified in the order for an additional period not to exceed 45 days if the
owner or operator of the automotive repair garage or used vehicle sales area
presents satisfactory evidence to the Department that unusual difficulties
would prevent substantial compliance without such extension.



 



   (c)   Upon an appeal, the Board may grant an extension of the
compliance date for an additional period not to exceed 180 days if it finds
that the correction of major code violations requiring extensive building
alterations would create a hardship without such extension.



 



   8.   Re-inspection.  The Department shall re-inspect an automotive
repair garage or used vehicle sales area for which an Order was issued
pursuant to this subsection subsequent to the compliance date or any
authorized extension.  (Renumbered and Amended by Ord. No. 181,033, Eff.
2/4/10.)



 



   9.   Citation authority prior to Revocation Notice.  An arrest may
be made or citation issued pursuant to Sec. 98.0408 of the Code, if the
violations noted in an Order are not corrected on or before the due date
noted upon the order.  This action does not preclude the commencement of
certificate of occupancy revocation proceedings.  (Renumbered and Amended by
Ord. No. 181,033, Eff. 2/4/10.)



 



   10.   Failure to Correct Violations, Failure to Pay Inspection Fee,
Revocation Proceedings.  (Renumbered; Title and First Paragraph Amended by
Ord. No. 181,033, Eff. 2/4/10.)  If any violation specified in the Order is
not corrected prior to the compliance date or any extensions, or if the
annual inspection fee has not been paid within 60 days of assessment,
pursuant to Section 98.0402(e) of the Code, then the Department shall
commence certificate of occupancy revocation proceedings by issuance of a
Notice of Intent to Revoke ("Notice").  This Notice shall be sent to the
owner of the property and the operator of the automotive repair garage or
used vehicle sales area.



 



   The Notice shall state the following:



 



   (a)   The date and place of the revocation hearing, which shall be
scheduled at least 15 days and not more than 90 days from the date of
issuance of the Notice.



 



   (b)   A list of all violations uncorrected as of the compliance date.



 



   (c)   That copies of all inspection reports related to such
violations are available for inspection by the owner or operator.



 



   (d)   That termination of revocation proceedings may be obtained if
the violations noted in the Notice are corrected before the date of the
revocation hearing and only if a specified fine is paid.  This fine shall be
fixed in accordance with the fine schedule in Subdivision 16 of this
subsection.



 



   (e)   That the owner and operator are entitled to be represented by
legal counsel at any revocation hearing.



 



   (f)   That the proceedings may result in the revocation of the
certificate of occupancy.



 



   (g)   That each violation of this Code and each day of operation
without a certificate of occupancy is a misdemeanor.



 



   11.   Revocation Hearing.  On the date specified in the Notice of
Intent to Revoke, a hearing shall be held.  The Board may appoint a Hearing
Examiner to conduct the hearing.  The Examiner shall not be any individual
who participated in the issuance of any of the Notices or Orders required by
this subsection. Subpoenas may be issued pursuant to Section 98.0307 of the
Code.  The hearing shall be conducted pursuant to the provisions of Sections
98.0308 and 98.0309 of the Code.  (Renumbered and Amended by Ord. No.
181,033, Eff. 2/4/10.)



 



   12.   Hearing Examiner’s Report.  Within 30 days of the last day
of the hearing, the Hearing Examiner shall report his findings and
recommendations in writing to the Board.  (Renumbered by Ord. No. 181,033,
Eff. 2/4/10.)



 



   13.   Board Determination.  (Renumbered and Amended by Ord. No.
181,033, Eff. 2/4/10.)  Within 30 days of receipt of the Hearing Examiner's
report, the Board shall determine whether the certificate of occupancy shall
be revoked.



 



   (a)   Revocation shall be ordered by the Board if it finds that:



 



   (i)   Any of the violations specified in the Order have not been
corrected, or that the fines specified in Subdivision 16. of this subsection
have not been paid; and



 



   (ii)   That, taken together, the remaining uncorrected violations
have significant adverse effects on surrounding properties or the health,
peace, or safety of persons residing or working in the surrounding area; and



 



   (iii)   The owner or operator of the automotive repair garage or
used vehicle sales area has failed to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the
Board the ability or willingness to eliminate problems associated with the
automotive repair garage or used vehicle sales area operation.



 



   (b)   The Board may determine that a certificate of occupancy should
not be revoked if it makes the following findings:



 



   (i)   The remaining uncorrected violations specified in the Order do
not have an adverse effect on neighboring properties or on the general
public; and



 



   (ii)   The owner or operator of the automotive repair garage or used
vehicle sales area has paid the fine specified in Subdivision 16. of this
subsection with respect to violations stipulated in the Notice.



 



   In making its determination, the Board may hear from the owner,
operator, or other interested party.  The determination by the Board is
final.



 



   14.   Loss of Non-Conforming Rights.  Notwithstanding any provision
of this Code to the contrary, if a Certificate of Occupancy is revoked
pursuant to this subsection, then a new Certificate of Occupancy for the
property may only be issued if all requirements of the Code in effect at the
time of application for such new Certificate are satisfied.  (Renumbered by
Ord. No. 181,033, Eff. 2/4/10.)



 



   15.   Appeals.  Except for extensions of time granted by the
Department as authorized in Subdivision 7. of this subsection and
notwithstanding any provisions of this Code to the contrary, there shall be
no appeal to the Board from any notice issued or determination made by the
Department pursuant to this subsection.  Appeals may be made from Department
determinations of violations of Subdivisions 3. and 4. of this subsection. 
(Renumbered and Amended by Ord. No. 181,033, Eff. 2/4/10.)



 



   16.   Fine Schedule.  The fine for each violation as specified in
the Notice shall be as specified in Section 98.0402(f)2.B. of the Code. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 176,840, Eff. 9/4/05; Renumbered by Ord. No. 181,033,
Eff. 2/4/10.)



 



   17.   Repeat Violations.  (Amended by Ord. No. 176,840, Eff.
9/4/05; Renumbered by Ord. No. 181,033, Eff. 2/4/10.)  Notwithstanding any
provisions of this subsection to the contrary, if an Order is issued pursuant
to this subsection and after compliance with it a subsequent Order is issued
for a violation of the same provisions occurring within one year of the date
of the initial order:



 



   (a)   Each violation cited in a subsequent Order shall carry a fine
as specified in Section 98.0402(f)1. of the Code and shall be paid within 15
days of the compliance date of the order.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,033,
Eff. 2/4/10.)



 



   (b)   The compliance date for any such Order shall be no more than
ten days from the date of mailing of such notice.



 



   (c)   No extensions of the compliance date shall be granted.



 



   (d)   The amounts set forth in the fine schedule in Subdivision 16
of this subsection shall be doubled if a Notice is issued pursuant to the
subsequent Order.



 



   18.   Fines Distinct from Other Penalties and Fees.  The above
fines are separate and distinct from both the general misdemeanor penalties
provided in the Code and the noncompliance fees authorized in Section 98.0411
of the Code.  (Renumbered and Amended by Ord. No. 181,033, Eff. 2/4/10.)



 



   J.   Transportation Demand Management and Trip Reduction Measures. 
(Added by Ord. No. 168,700, Eff. 3/31/93.)



 



   1.   DEFINITIONS.  For the purpose of this section, certain words
and terms are defined as follows:



 



   Carpool.  A vehicle carrying two to five persons to and from work on a
regular schedule.



 



   Development.  The construction of new non-residential floor area.



 



   Gross Floor Area.  That area in square feet confined within the
outside surface of the exterior walls of a building, as calculated by adding
the total square footage of each of the floors in the building, except for
that square footage devoted to vehicle parking and necessary interior
driveways and ramps.



 



   Preferential Parking.  Parking spaces, designated or assigned through
use of a sign or painted space markings for Carpools or Vanpools, that are
provided in a location more convenient to the entrance for the place of
employment than parking spaces provided for single-occupant vehicles.



 



   Transportation Demand Management (TDM).  The alteration of travel
behavior through programs of incentives, services, and policies, including
encouraging the use of alternatives to single-occupant vehicles such as
public transit, cycling, walking, carpooling/vanpooling and changes in work
schedule that move trips out of the peak period or eliminate them altogether
(as in the case in telecommuting or compressed work weeks).



 



   Trip Reduction.  Reduction in the number of work-related trips made by
single-occupant vehicles.



 



   Vanpool.  A vehicle carrying six or more persons to and from work on a
regular schedule, and on a prepaid basis.



 



   Vehicle.  Any motorized form of transportation, including but not
limited to automobiles, vans, buses and motorcycles.



 



   2.   APPLICABILITY.  This subdivision applies only to the
construction of new non-residential gross floor area.  Prior to the issuance
of a building permit, the owner/applicant shall agree, by way of a covenant
that runs with the land, to provide and maintain in a state of good repair
the following applicable transportation demand management and trip reduction
measures.



 



   3.   REQUIREMENTS:



 



   (a)   Development in excess of 25,000 square feet of gross floor
area.  The owner shall provide a bulletin board, display case, or kiosk
(displaying transportation information) where the greatest number of
employees are likely to see it.  The transportation information displayed
should include, but is not limited to, the following:



 



   (1)   Current routes and schedules for public transit serving the
site;



 



   (2)   Telephone numbers for referrals on transportation information
including numbers for the regional ridesharing agency and local transit
operations;



 



   (3)   Ridesharing promotion material supplied by commuter-oriented
organizations;



 



   (4)   Regional/local bicycle route and facility information;



 



   (5)   A listing of on-site services or facilities which are
available for carpoolers, vanpoolers, bicyclists, and transit riders.



 



   (b)   Development in excess of 50,000 square feet of gross floor
area.  The owner shall comply with Paragraph (a) above and in addition shall
provide:



 



   (1)   A designated parking area for employee carpools and vanpools
as close as practical to the main pedestrian entrance(s) of the
building(s).  This area shall include at least ten percent of the parking
spaces required for the site.  The spaces shall be signed and striped
sufficient to meet the employee demand for such spaces.  The carpool/vanpool
parking area shall be identified on the driveway and circulation plan upon
application for a building permit;



 



   (2)   One permanent, clearly identified (signed and striped)
carpool/vanpool parking space for the first 50,000 to 100,000 square feet of
gross floor area and one additional permanent, clearly identified (signed and
striped) carpool/vanpool parking space for any development over 100,000
square feet of gross floor area;



 



   (3)   Parking spaces clearly identified (signed and striped) shall
be provided in the designated carpool/vanpool parking area at any time during
the building’s occupancy sufficient to meet employee demand for such
spaces.  Absent such demand, parking spaces within the designated
carpool/vanpool parking area may be used by other vehicles;



 



   (4)   No signed and striped parking spaces for carpool/vanpool
parking shall displace any handicapped parking;



 



   (5)   A statement that preferential carpool/vanpool spaces are
available on-site and a description of the method for obtaining permission to
use such spaces shall be included on the required transportation information
board;



 



   (6)   A minimum vertical clearance of 7 feet 2 inches shall be
provided for all parking spaces and accessways used by vanpool vehicles when
located within a parking structure;



 



   (7)   Bicycle parking shall be provided in conformance with Section
12.21A16 of this Code.



 



   (c)   Development in excess of 100,000 square feet of gross floor
area.  The owner shall comply with Paragraphs (a) and (b) above and shall
provide:



 



   (1)   A safe and convenient area in which carpool/vanpool vehicles
may load and unload passengers other than in their assigned parking area;



 



   (2)   Sidewalks or other designated pathways following direct and
safe routes from the external pedestrian circulation system to each building
in the development;



 



   (3)   If determined necessary by the City to mitigate the project
impact, bus stop improvements shall be provided.  The City will consult with
the local bus service providers in determining appropriate improvements. 
When locating bus stops and/or planning building entrances, entrances shall
be designed to provide safe and efficient access to nearby transit
stations/stops;



 



   (4)   Safe and convenient access from the external circulation
system to bicycle parking facilities on-site.



 



   4.   EXCEPTIONS.  The provisions of this subsection shall not apply
to developments for which an application has been deemed complete by the City
pursuant to Government Code Section 65943, or for which a Notice of
Preparation for a Draft Environmental Impact Report has been circulated or
for which plans sufficient for a complete plan check were accepted by the
Department of Building and Safety, on or before the effective date of this
ordinance.



 



   5.   MONITORING.  The Department of Transportation shall be
responsible for monitoring the owner/applicant’s continual implementation
and maintenance of the project trip reduction features required by this
ordinance.



 



   6.   ENFORCEMENT.  Applicants shall execute and record a Covenant
and Agreement that the trip reduction features required by this ordinance
will be maintained, that required material specified in Subdivision 3 (a)
(1)-(5) will be continually posted, and that additional carpool/vanpool
spaces within the designated preferential area will be signed and striped for
the use of ridesharing employees based on demand for such spaces.  The
Covenant and Agreement shall be acceptable to the Department of
Transportation.



 



   7.   HARDSHIP EXEMPTION.  In cases of extreme hardship, duly
established to its satisfaction, the City Council, acting in its legislative
capacity, and by resolution, may grant an exemption from any/or all the
provisions of this ordinance.  In granting such an exemption, the City
Council shall make the following findings:



 



   (a)   Specific features of the development make it infeasible to
satisfy all of the provisions of this subsection; and



 



   (b)   The applicant has committed to provide equivalent alternative
measures to reduce vehicle trips.



 



   K.   Appeals from Building Department Determinations.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 175,428, Eff. 9/28/03.)



 



   1.   Right of Appeal.  The Director of Planning shall have the
power and duty to investigate and make a decision upon appeals from
determinations of the Department of Building and Safety where it is alleged
there is error or abuse of discretion in any order, interpretation,
requirement, determination or action made by the Department of Building and
Safety in the enforcement or administration of Chapter I of this Code and
other land use ordinances in site-specific cases.  This provision shall not
apply to requests for extensions of time to comply with any order issued by
the Department of Building and Safety.  An appeal to the Director of
Planning may only be made after the Department of Building and Safety has
rendered a decision in writing and provided written justification and
findings on an appeal made pursuant to Section 98.0403.2(a) of the Code.



 



   Appeals may be filed by any aggrieved person or by any officer, board,
department or bureau of the City at the public counter of the Department of
City Planning.  The filing of an appeal stays, with respect to that site,
all enforcement proceedings and actions pertaining to Chapter I of this Code
and other land use ordinances pending the Director’s decision.  However,
the filing of an appeal will not prevent the issuance of a building permit or
performance of work authorized by the permit when all Code and other land use
requirements have been met to the satisfaction of the Department of Building
and Safety, and only after consideration of the issues set forth in the
appeal to the Department of Building and Safety made pursuant to Section
98.0403.2(a).  In no case shall the filing of an appeal delay enforcement
proceedings or actions related to the abatement of imminent life safety
hazards.



 



   2.   Filing of an Appeal.  The appeal shall be filed at the public
counter of the Department of City Planning on a form prescribed by the
Department within 15 days after the Department of Building and Safety has
rendered a decision in writing providing justification and findings on the
issues set forth in the appeal made pursuant to Section 98.0403.2(a).  The
appeal to the Director must be accompanied by a written copy of the decision
of the Department of Building and Safety, and any written copy of the
underlying order, interpretation, requirement, determination or action taken
on the matter by the Department of Building and Safety.  The appellant shall
set forth specifically how there was error or abuse of discretion in the
action of the Department of Building and Safety.  Each appeal shall be
accompanied by a filing fee as specified in Section 19.01 B. of this Code. 
(Last Sentence Amended by Ord. No. 181,141, Eff. 5/16/10.)



 



   3.   Procedure.  Upon receipt of an appeal in the Department of
City Planning, the Department shall notify the owner of the subject property
of the filing of the appeal.  The Director shall investigate the matter. 
The Director shall set the matter for hearing if it is likely to be
controversial.  Notice shall be by mail, shall state the time, place and
purpose of the hearing at which evidence will be taken and shall be sent to
the applicant, appellant, the Department of Building and Safety, owners of
all properties abutting, across the street or alley from, or having a common
corner with the subject property, and to all persons known to have an
interest in the matter. The Department shall mail the notice at least 15 days
prior to the hearing.



 



   4.   Decision.  The Director shall make his or her decision within
75 days after the expiration of the appeal period or within an extended
period mutually agreed upon in writing by the applicant and the Director. 
The Director shall determine whether there was error or abuse of discretion
by the Department of Building and Safety.  The Director shall place a copy
of the findings and decision in the file in the City Planning Department, and
furnish a copy of the decision to the applicant, appellant, the Department of
Building and Safety, owners of all properties abutting, across the street or
alley from, or having a common corner with the subject property, and to all
persons known to have an interest in the matter.  The Director, as part of
the determination, shall make a finding regarding whether the matter may have
a Citywide impact.  The Director shall find that there is no Citywide impact
if the matter concerns only the use of the specific property, or
circumstances or issues connected with other zoning matters which are unique
to the affected site and would not generally apply to other sites in the
City, or would not result in changes in the application of Chapter I of this
Code and other land use ordinances to other sites.



 



   5.   Effective Date of Decision.  A decision by the Director
becomes final and effective upon the close of the 15 day appeal period, if no
further appeal is made.



 



   6.   Appeals of Director’s Decision.  An applicant or any other
person aggrieved by a decision of the Director may appeal that decision to
the City Planning Commission on a matter that the Director found may have a
Citywide impact, or may appeal to the Area Planning Commission if the
Director found the matter may not have a Citywide impact.



 



   An appeal shall set forth specifically the points at issue, the reasons
for the appeal, and the basis upon which the appellant claims there was error
or abuse of discretion by the Director.  The appeal shall be filed within 15
days of the date of mailing of the initial decision on forms provided by the
Department.  Any appeal not filed within the 15 day period shall not be
considered by the Area  Commission or the City Planning Commission.  The
filing of an appeal stays, with respect to that site, all enforcement
proceedings and actions pertaining to Chapter I of this Code and other land
use ordinances until a decision by the Area Planning Commission or the City
Planning Commission, except as set forth in Subdivision 1. above.  Once an
appeal is filed, the Director shall transmit the appeal and the file to the
Area Planning Commission or the City Planning Commission.  At any time prior
to the action by the Area Planning Commission or the City Planning Commission
on the appeal, the Director shall submit any supplementary pertinent
information as he or she deems necessary or as may be requested by the Area
Planning Commission or the City Planning Commission.



 



   7.   Appellate Decision – Public Hearing and Notice.  Upon
receipt of the appeal, the Area Planning Commission or the City Planning
Commission shall set the matter for a hearing at which the Commission shall
take evidence.  Notice of the hearing shall be by mail, shall state the
time, place and purpose of the hearing and shall be sent to the appellant,
the applicant, the owner or owners of the property involved, the Director of
Planning, the Department of Building and Safety, and any other interested
party who has requested in writing to be notified.  Notice shall be mailed
at least 24 days prior to the hearing.  When considering an appeal from the
decision of the Director, the Area Planning Commission or the City Planning
Commission shall make its decision setting forth how there was error or abuse
of discretion by the Director.



 



   8.   Time for Appellate Decision.  The Area Planning Commission or
the City Planning Commission shall act within 75 days after the expiration of
the appeal period or within any additional period as may be agreed upon in
writing by the applicant and the Area Planning Commission or the City
Planning Commission.  The failure of the Area Planning Commission or the
City Planning Commission to act within this time period shall be deemed a
denial of the appeal from the Director’s action.



 



   9.   Appellate Decision.  In considering an appeal, the Area
Planning Commission or the City Planning Commission shall be subject to the
same limitations as are applicable to the Director under Subdivision 1. above.



 



   10.   Procedures and Effective Date of Appellate Decision.  If the
Area Planning Commission or the City Planning Commission makes a decision on
an appeal pursuant to this section, the appellate decision shall be final and
effective as provided in Charter Section 245.



 



 



SEC. 12.27.  VARIANCES.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)



 



   Procedure for Variances.



 



   A.   Application for Variance.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff.
10/10/00.)  To apply for a variance, an applicant shall file an application
with the Department of City Planning, on a form provided by the Department,
and include all information required by the instructions on the application
and the guidelines adopted by the Chief Zoning Administrator.  The Chief
Zoning Administrator shall adopt guidelines for determining when an
application is complete and that date shall be deemed the submission date. 
All owners and lessees of the property involved shall verify that the
information in the application is true.



 



   B.   Initial Decision.  Except as otherwise provided in Charter
Section 564 and Section 12.36 of this Code, the initial decision on a
variance application shall be made by the Zoning Administrator,.  For
purposes of this Code section, the initial decision shall mean approval in
whole or in part with or without conditions, or denial, of the application.



 



   C.   Public Hearing and Notice.  An application for a variance
shall be set for public hearing unless the Chief Zoning Administrator or, in
his or her absence, an Associate Zoning Administrator performing his or her
functions, makes written findings, a copy of which shall be attached to the
file, that the requested variance:



 



   (i)   will not have a significant effect on adjoining properties or
on the immediate neighborhood; or



 



   (ii)   is not likely to evoke public controversy.



 



   An application requesting relief from density or height requirements
shall follow the procedures for public hearing and notice as set forth in
Section 12.28 C.2.  All other applications shall follow the procedures set
forth below.  (First Para. Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)



 



   The Zoning Administrator may set the variance for hearing even though a
public hearing is not otherwise required, if the Zoning Administrator
determines that it would be in the public interest.  In that event,
notwithstanding the notice requirements below, notice of the public hearing
shall be mailed to the owners of all properties abutting, across the street
or alley from or having a common corner with the subject property.



 



   When a public hearing is required by this Code for an application for a
variance, evidence shall be taken at that hearing and notice of the time,
place, and purpose of the hearing shall be given:



 



   1.   by mailing a written notice at least 24 days prior to the date
of the hearing to the owner or owners of the property involved, and to the
owners of all property within and outside of the City that is within 500 feet
of the exterior boundaries of the property involved, using for the purpose of
notification, the last known name and address of owners as are shown on the
records of the City Engineer or the records of the County Assessor; and 
(Amended by Ord. No. 181,595, Eff. 4/10/11.)



 



   2.   by mailing a written notice no less than 24 days prior to the
date of the hearing to residential, commercial and industrial occupants of
all property within 500 feet of the exterior boundaries of the property
involved.  This requirement can be met by mailing the notice to
“occupant”.  If this notice provision will not result in notice being
given to at least 20 different owners of at least 20 different lots other
than the subject property, then the 500-foot radius for notification shall be
increased in increments of 50 feet until the required number of persons and
lots are encompassed within the expanded area.  Notification shall then be
given to all property owners and occupants within that area; and



 



   3.   by the applicant posting notice of the public hearing in a
conspicuous place on the property involved at least ten days prior to the
date of the public hearing.



 



   D.   Findings for Approval.  The decision of the Zoning
Administrator shall be supported by written findings of fact based upon
evidence taken, written or oral statements and documents presented, which may
include photographs, maps and plans, together with the results of any staff
investigations.



 



   Consistent with Charter Section 562, no variance may be granted unless
the Zoning Administrator finds all of the following:



 



   1.   that the strict application of the provisions of the zoning
ordinance would result in practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships
inconsistent with the general purposes and intent of the zoning regulations;



 



   2.   that there are special circumstances applicable to the subject
property such as size, shape, topography, location or surroundings that do
not apply generally to other property in the same zone and vicinity;



 



   3.   that the variance is necessary for the preservation and
enjoyment of a substantial property right or use generally possessed by other
property in the same zone and vicinity but which, because of the special
circumstances and practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships, is denied
to the property in question;



 



   4.   that the granting of the variance will not be materially
detrimental to the public welfare, or injurious to the property or
improvements in the same zone or vicinity in which the property is located;
and



 



   5.   that the granting of the variance will not adversely affect any
element of the General Plan.



 



   A variance shall not be used to grant a special privilege or to permit
a use substantially inconsistent with the limitations upon other properties
in the same zone and vicinity.  The Zoning Administrator may deny a variance
if the conditions creating the need for the variance were self-imposed.



 



   Upon making a decision, the Zoning Administrator shall transmit a copy
of the written findings and decisions to the applicant, the Director of
Planning, the Department of Building and Safety, owners of all properties
abutting, across the street or alley from, or having a common corner with the
subject property and to all persons who have filed written requests for this
notice with the Office of Zoning Administrator.  The Zoning Administrator
shall also place a copy of the findings and decision in the file.



 



   E.   Conditions of Approval.  In approving a variance, the Zoning
Administrator may impose those conditions it deems necessary to remedy a
disparity of privileges and that the Zoning Administrator finds are necessary
to protect the public health, safety or welfare and assure compliance with
the objectives of the General Plan and the purpose and intent of the zoning.



 



   F.   Time to Act.  The initial decision shall be made within 75
days of the submission of a complete application, or within an extended
period as mutually agreed upon in writing by the applicant and the Zoning
Administrator.  An initial decision shall include the written findings made
in accordance with Subsection D.



 



   G.   Failure to Act -Transfer of Jurisdiction.



 



   1.   If the Zoning Administrator fails to act on an application for
a variance within the time provided in Subsection F, the applicant may file a
request for a transfer of jurisdiction to the Area Planning Commission for
decision.  The Director of Planning shall prescribe the form and manner of
filing requests for transfers of jurisdiction.  When an applicant requests
that a matter be transferred, the Zoning Administrator may file with the Area
Planning Commission a statement of facts pertaining to the matter, and shall
transmit to the Area Planning Commission the files in the case.



 



   2.   When the Area Planning Commission receives the applicant’s
request for a transfer of jurisdiction, the Zoning Administrator shall lose
jurisdiction; provided, however, that the Area Planning Commission may remand
the matter to the Zoning Administrator, or may accept the applicant’s
request for withdrawal of the transfer of jurisdiction, in which case the
Zoning Administrator shall regain jurisdiction for the time and purposes
specified by the Area Planning Commission.



 



   3.   If no remand or request for withdrawal of the transfer occurs,
the Area Planning Commission shall consider the application following the
same procedures and subject to the same limitations as are applicable to the
Zoning Administrator, except that the Area Planning Commission shall act
within 45 days of the transfer of jurisdiction.  The Department of City
Planning, including the Office of Zoning Administration, shall make
investigations and furnish any reports the Area Planning Commission may
request.



 



   H.   Filing of an Appeal.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff.
10/10/00.)  Any person aggrieved by an initial decision of the Zoning
Administrator concerning a variance, may appeal the decision to the Area
Planning Commission by filing an appeal with the Planning Department within
15 days of the date of mailing of the Zoning Administrator’s decision. 
The appeal shall be filed in the Department of City Planning on a form
provided by the Department, and shall set forth specifically the points at
issue, the reasons for the appeal, and the basis upon which the appellant
claims there was an error or abuse of discretion by the Zoning
Administrator.  The Area Planning Commission shall not consider any appeal
not filed within the 15-day period.  The filing of an appeal stays
proceedings in the matter until the Area Planning Commission has made a
decision.  Once an appeal is filed, the Office of Zoning Administration
shall transmit the appeal and the Zoning Administrator file to the Area
Planning Commission.  At any time prior to the action of the Area Planning
Commission on the appeal, the Zoning Administrator shall submit any
supplementary pertinent information he or she deems necessary or as the Area
Planning Commission may request.



 



   I.   Appellate Decision - Public Hearing and Notice.  Before acting
on the appeal, the Area Planning Commission shall set the matter for hearing,
giving notice by mail of the time, place and purpose of the hearing to the
appellant, to the applicant, to the owner or owners of the property involved,
to the Zoning Administrator, and to any interested party who has requested in
writing to be so notified.  The notice shall be mailed at least 24 days
prior to the hearing.  If the appeal is from the grant or denial of a use
variance, the Area Planning Commission shall give the same notice of the
hearing as required for the original hearing on the matter.  Upon the date
set for the hearing, the Area Planning Commission shall either hear the
appeal or if there is cause to do so, continue the matter to another date. 
No notice of continuance need be given if the continuance is announced at the
time for which the hearing was set.



 



   J.   Time for Appellate Decision.  The Area Planning Commission
shall make its decision within 75 days after the expiration of the appeal
period.  The 75 day time limit to act on an appeal may be extended by mutual
written consent of the applicant and the Area Planning Commission.  If the
Area Planning Commission fails to act within this time limit, the action of
the Zoning Administrator on the matter shall be final, except as provided in
Subsection N. below.  (Amended by Ord. No. 177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.)



 



   K.   Record on Appeal.  The Area Planning Commission shall base its
decision only upon:



 



   1.   evidence introduced at the hearing or hearings, if any, before
the Zoning Administrator, on the issue; and



 



   2.   the record, findings, and decision of the Zoning Administrator;
and



 



   3.   the consideration of arguments, if any, presented to the Area
Planning Commission orally or in writing.



 



   If any applicant or aggrieved person wishes to present any new evidence
in connection with the matter, he or she shall file with the Area Planning
Commission a written summary of that evidence, together with a statement as
to why that evidence could not reasonably have been presented to the Zoning
Administrator.  If the Area Planning Commission determines that the evidence
could not reasonably have been presented to the Zoning Administrator and the
evidence is of such a nature as might reasonably have led to a different
decision by the Zoning Administrator, the Area Planning Commission shall
remand the matter to the Zoning Administrator.  The Zoning Administrator
shall reopen the matter only for receipt of the evidence summarized to the
Area Planning Commission, and evidence from other parties relevant to the
newly presented evidence, and within 55 days (or within an extension of that
time agreed upon by the applicant and the Area Planning Commission) make a
new order, requirement, interpretation or other decision in the matter.



 



   L.   Appellate Decision.  The Area Planning Commission may reverse
or modify the ruling or decision appealed from only upon making written
findings setting forth specifically the manner in which the action of the
Zoning Administrator was in error or constituted an abuse of discretion. 
Upon making a decision, a copy of the findings and decision shall forthwith
be placed on file in the City Planning Department, and copies of the decision
shall be sent to the applicant, the appellant, the Department of Building and
Safety, the Director of Planning and the Office of Zoning Administration.



 



   In considering appeals, the Area Planning Commission shall be subject
to the same limitations regarding findings and conditions as are applicable
to a Zoning Administrator under Subsections D and E.



 



   M.   Date of Final Decision.  Because no further appeals are
permitted, a denial of a variance by an Area Planning Commission on appeal
shall become final upon the date it was mailed to the applicant.  However, a
decision by the Area Planning Commission granting or confirming the grant of
a variance shall become final after 15 days from the date it was mailed to
the applicant, unless an appeal is filed with the Council within that
period.  The filing of an appeal stays proceedings in the matter until the
Council makes a decision on the matter.  The Council shall not consider any
appeal not filed within the fifteen day period.



 



   N.   Failure to Act - Transfer of Jurisdiction.



 



   1.   If the Area Planning Commission fails to act on an appeal of a
grant of a variance within the time provided in Subsection J, the appellant
may file a request for a transfer of jurisdiction to the Council for
decision.  The Director of Planning shall prescribe the form and manner of
filing requests for transfers of jurisdiction.  When a matter is requested
to be transferred, the Zoning Administrator and the Area Planning Commission
may file with the Council a statement of facts pertaining to the matter, and
shall transmit to the Council the files in the case.



 



   2.   When the Council receives the appellant’s request for a
transfer of jurisdiction, the Area Planning Commission shall lose
jurisdiction; provided, however, that the Council may remand the matter to
the Area Planning Commission, or may accept the appellant’s request for
withdrawal of the transfer of jurisdiction, in which case the Area Planning
Commission shall regain jurisdiction for the time and purposes specified by
the Council.



 



   3.   If no remand or request for withdrawal of the transfer occurs,
the Council shall consider the application following the same procedures and
subject to the same limitations as are applicable to the Area Planning
Commission, except that the Council shall act within 45 days of the transfer
of jurisdiction.  The Department of City Planning, including the Office of
Zoning Administration, shall make investigations and furnish any reports as
the Council may request.



 



   O.   Appeal to City Council.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,754, Eff.
3/5/01.)  An appeal from a decision of the Area Planning Commission granting
or affirming the grant of a variance may be filed by the applicant or any
person aggrieved by the decision.  The appeal shall set forth in writing
specifically the manner in which the appellant believes there was error or
abuse of discretion on the part of the Area Planning Commission.  The appeal
shall be filed in the Department of City Planning upon forms provided by the
Department.  Upon the filing of the appeal, the Area Planning Commission
Secretary shall transmit the Area Planning Commission file and the Zoning
Administrator file on the matter to the City Council together with any
reports prepared on this matter by the Zoning Administrator or Commission.



 



   P.   Action by Council and Mayor.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,754,
Eff. 3/5/01.)



 



   1.   When considering an appeal from an Area Planning Commission
decision granting or affirming the grant of a variance, the Council shall be
subject to the same limitations regarding findings and conditions as are
placed on the Area Planning Commission by this section.  The Council, by
resolution, may affirm, reverse or modify, in whole or in part, the decision
of the Area Planning Commission by a majority vote.  Failure of the Council
to act within 90 days from the expiration of the appeal period, or within any
additional period as may be agreed upon by the applicant and the Council
shall be deemed to be a denial of the appeal.



 



   2.   When a variance decision is appealed to the City Council and
the Council either approves the variance or denies an appeal from an earlier
approval, the matter together with the files and reports shall forthwith be
transmitted to the Mayor.  The Mayor may approve or disapprove the variance
within ten days of its presentation to him or her.  This action shall be
based solely upon the administrative record and whether the Mayor believes
the variance conforms with the requirements for approval set forth in this
section.  If the Mayor disapproves the variance, he or she shall return the
matter to the City Clerk for presentation to the Council, together with the
objections in writing.  The Council within 60 days after the matter has been
returned to it may override the disapproval by a two-thirds vote.



 



   3.   If the Council fails to override the Mayor’s disapproval
within the 60 days, the Mayor’s disapproval shall constitute a denial of
the variance.  If the Mayor fails to return the matter to the City Clerk
within ten days of its presentation to him or her, the approval of the
variance shall become final.



 



   Q.   (Deleted by Ord. No. 182,106, Eff. 5/20/12.)



 



   R.   Continuance of Variance or Exception.  Except as provided in
Subsection T of this subsection with respect to variances or exceptions which
have never been or are not being utilized, no provision of this article shall
be interpreted or construed as limiting or interfering with the rights
established by any variance or exception granted prior to the effective date
of this article by:



 



   (a)   ordinance pursuant to the provisions of Ordinances Nos. 42,666
(N.S.), 66,750, 74,140 or Chapter I of the Los Angeles Municipal Code;



 



   (b)   decision of the Administrator or the former Board of Zoning
Appeals pursuant to the provisions of Chapter I of this Code; or



 



   (c)   former decision of the Board of City Planning Commissioners
pursuant to the provisions of Ordinance No. 74,145 or Chapter I of this Code.



 



   Not withstanding any of the provisions of the ordinance granting a
variance or exception, the Administrator shall have jurisdiction to perform
all administrative acts with which the Board of City Planning Commissioners,
City Council or its Planning Committee were formerly charged with under the
ordinance, such as approving plans, signs, types of use, and the like.  The
use of any building, structure or land existing at the time this article
became effective, by virtue of any exception from the provisions of former
Ordinance No. 33,761 (N.S.), may be continued provided no new building or
structure is erected, no existing building or structure is enlarged, and no
existing use of land is extended.



 



   S.   Discontinuance of Variance or Exception - Revocation. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)  If the use authorized by any
variance granted by ordinance, or by decision of the Zoning Administrator,
the Area Planning Commission, City Planning Commission or the City Council is
or has been abandoned or discontinued for a period of six months, or the
conditions of the variance have not been complied with, the Director, upon
knowledge of this fact, may give notice to the record owner or lessee of the
real property affected to appear at a time and place fixed by the Director
and show cause why the ordinance or decision granting the variance should not
be repealed or rescinded, as the case may be.  (First Sentence Amended by
Ord. No. 177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.)  After the hearing, the Director may
revoke the variance, or if an ordinance is involved, recommend to the City
Council that the ordinance be repealed.  The decision of the Director shall
become final after 15 days from the date of mailing of the decision to the
owner or lessees of the real property affected, unless an appeal to the
Council is filed within that 15-day period.  An appeal may be taken to
Council in the same manner as described in Subsections O and P of this
section.  After revocation or repeal, the property affected shall be subject
to all the regulations of the zone in which the property is located, as
provided in this article.



 



   T.   Failure to Utilize Variance or Exception - Repeal.  The
procedure for repeal of variances that have been abandoned or discontinued as
set forth in Subsection S shall not apply to those exceptions or conditional
variances granted by ordinance and which were once utilized, but the
authorized use or development had been discontinued or removed from the site
for at least one year and the ordinance has been repealed.  If the rights
established by any ordinance previously adopted authorizing an exception or
conditional variance from the provisions of Chapter I of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code, or Ordinances No. 42,666 (N.S.) 66,750 and 74,140, have never
been executed or utilized, or, if once utilized, the use or development
authorized has been discontinued or removed from the site for a period of
least one year, that exception or conditional variance shall no longer be of
any force or effect and the respective ordinance granting the exception or
conditional variance is hereby repealed.



 



   U.   Plan Approvals.



 



   1.   Development of Site.  On any lot or portion of a lot on which
a use is permitted pursuant to a variance, new buildings or structures may be
erected, enlargements may be made to existing buildings, and existing uses
may be extended if plans for those changes are submitted to and approved by a
Zoning Administrator.  A Zoning Administrator shall not approve any use,
single deviation or combination or series of deviations from the zoning
regulations which was not approved as part of the original variance, or which
would result in an increase in size or bulk of buildings exceeding 20 percent.



 



   Any person submitting development plans, or any other person aggrieved
by a decision of a Zoning Administrator made relative to the approval or
disapproval of a development plan may appeal that decision to the Area
Planning Commission.  The appeal shall be in writing upon forms provided by
the Department of City Planning.  The appeal shall set forth specifically
the basis of the appeal and the reasons why the decision should be reversed
or modified.  The appeal shall be filed within 15 calendar days from the
date of mailing of the Zoning Administrator’s decision and shall include a
filing fee pursuant to Section 19.01B of this Code.  No fee shall be
required for the filing of appeals by other aggrieved persons.



 



   2.   Reduction of Site.  So long as the use approved by variance is
continued, the entire approved site shall be retained for the approved use,
and no portion of the site shall be severed or utilized for other purposes
unless the plans for the reduced site are first submitted to and approved by
a Zoning Administrator.  The decision of a Zoning Administrator on a
proposed reduction of the area of an approved site shall be subject to the
same appeal as is provided for an application to establish the use.



 



   3.   Conditions of Approval.  In connection with the approval of
such plans, a Zoning Administrator may impose conditions on the same basis as
provided for in this section in connection with the original variance.



 



   4.   Change of Use.  No use approved by variance may be changed in
a different use for which a variance is otherwise required unless the new use
is authorized in accordance with the procedure prescribed in this section for
the establishment of a use by variance.



 



 



SEC. 12.27.1.  ADMINISTRATIVE NUISANCE ABATEMENT PROCEEDINGS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 180,409, Eff. 1/18/09.)



 



   A.   Purpose.  It is the intent of this section to consolidate a
number of existing code provisions relating to the administrative abatement
of public nuisances, and revocations, rescissions, discontinuances or
modifications of discretionary zoning approvals.  In addition, this section
also sets forth procedures allowing the Director to modify or remove
conditions imposed as a result of nuisance abatement proceedings; to enforce
conditions imposed as part of any discretionary zoning approval; and to
require that the cost of a proceeding instituted pursuant to this section be
paid by those responsible for the maintenance and operation of the subject
use.



 



   These provisions allow the City's zoning authorities to protect the
public peace, health and safety from any land use which becomes a nuisance;
adversely affects the health, peace or safety of persons residing or working
in the surrounding area; or violates any land use related condition imposed
pursuant to this chapter or other provision of law, while protecting the
constitutional rights of the parties involved.



 



   B.   Authority.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code
to the contrary, the Director may require the modification, discontinuance or
revocation of any land use or discretionary zoning approval if it is found
that the land use or discretionary zoning approval as operated or maintained:



 



   1.   Jeopardizes or adversely affects the public health, peace, or
safety of persons residing or working on the premises or in the surrounding
area; or



 



   2.   Constitutes a public nuisance; or



 



   3.   Has resulted in repeated nuisance activities, including, but
not limited to, disturbances of the peace, illegal drug activity, public
drunkenness, drinking in public, harassment of passersby, gambling,
prostitution, sale of stolen goods, public urination, theft, assaults,
batteries, acts of vandalism, loitering, excessive littering, illegal
parking, excessive loud noises (especially in the late night or early morning
hours), traffic violations, curfew violations, lewd conduct, or police
detentions and arrests; or



 



   4.   Adversely impacts nearby uses; or



 



   5.   Violates any provision of this chapter; or any other city,
state, or federal regulation, ordinance, or statute; or



 



   6.   Violates any condition imposed by a prior discretionary land
use approval including approvals granted pursuant to Sections 12.24, 12.27,
12.28, 12.32 or 14.00 of this Code; or an approval initiated by application
of a property owner or owner's representative related to the use of land
including, but not limited to, parcel map, tentative tract map, coastal
development permit, development agreement, density transfer plan, exception
from a specific plan, and project permit pursuant to a moratorium or an
interim control ordinance.



 



   C.   Procedures:  Notice, Hearings and Appeals.  The Director
shall give notice to the record owner and lessee(s) of the real property
affected to appear at a public hearing at a time and place fixed by the
Director and show cause why the land use or discretionary zoning approval
should not be modified, discontinued, or revoked.



 



   1.   Notice.  A written notice shall be mailed not less than 24
calendar days prior to the date of hearing to the owner and lessee(s) of the
property involved, and to the owners of all property within and outside of
the City that is within 500 feet of the exterior boundaries of the property
involved, using for the purpose of notification the last known name and
address of the owners, as shown in the City Clerk's records or in the records
of the County Assessor.  If all property within the 500-foot radius is under
the same ownership as the property involved in the proceeding, then the
owners of all property which adjoins that ownership shall be included in this
notification.  Written notice shall also be mailed to residential,
commercial and industrial occupants of the property involved, and all
property within 500 feet of the exterior boundaries of the property
involved.  This requirement can be met by mailing the notice to
"occupant".  If this notice provision will not result in notice being given
to at least 20 different owners of at least 20 different lots other than the
subject property, then the 500-foot radius for notification shall be
increased in increments of 50 feet until the required number of persons and
lots are encompassed within the expanded area.  Notification shall then be
given to all property owners and occupants within the expanded area.



 



   Notwithstanding the above 24-calendar day notification period and the
500-foot notification radius, only 15 calendar days and a 500-foot radius
shall be required for any hearing conducted on the same site for a land use
or discretionary zoning approval for which a previous final decision pursuant
to this section has been made by the City.



 



   2.   Hearing and Decision.  The matter may be set for public
hearing before the Director.  After the conclusion of a public hearing, the
Director may require the modification, discontinuance or revocation of the
land use or discretionary zoning approval, as the case may be.  As part of
the action, the Director may impose conditions of operation as he or she
deems appropriate, including those necessary to protect the best interests of
the surrounding property or neighborhood; to eliminate, lessen, or prevent
any detrimental effect on the surrounding property or neighborhood; or to
assure compliance with other applicable provisions of law or conditions of an
earlier discretionary approval.  Conditions imposed may include the
establishment of amortization schedules, the closure or removal of buildings
or structures, and affect the establishment, maintenance, or operation of the
subject use, and related land uses, buildings, or structures.



 



   Whenever the Director initiates an action pursuant to this section he
or she shall impose a condition requiring payment of the fee set forth in
Section 19.01 P. of this Code (fee condition) to cover the City's costs in
processing the matter.  A fee is not required if the Director finds that the
operation of the land use does not create a nuisance or that the property
owner, business operator or person in control, is in substantial compliance
with the conditions of operation.  The fee condition shall further provide
that if the decision is not appealed, then the fee shall be paid in full to
the City with confirmation of the payment being provided to the Director
within 30 days of the decision date.  If an appeal is filed and the decision
of the Director is upheld on appeal, then the fee shall be paid in full with
confirmation made to the Director within 30 days of the effective date of the
decision.  If the Council reverses in total the decision of the Director,
then no payment of fees other than the appeal fee specified in Section 19.01
P. shall be required.



 



   Any determination shall be supported by written findings, including a
finding that the Director's determination does not impair the constitutional
rights of any person.  The written determination shall also state that
failure to comply with any or all conditions imposed may result in the
issuance of an order to discontinue or revoke the land use or discretionary
zoning approval.  The Director may require the discontinuance or revocation
of a land use or discretionary zoning approval only upon finding that:



 



   (a)   prior governmental efforts to cause the owner or operator to
eliminate the problems associated with the land use or discretionary zoning
approval have failed (examples include formal action, such as citations,
orders or hearings by the Police Department, Department of Building and
Safety, the Director, a Zoning Administrator, the City Planning Commission,
or any other governmental agency); and



 



   (b)   the owner or operator has failed to demonstrate, to the
satisfaction of the Director, the willingness or ability to eliminate the
problems associated with the land use or discretionary zoning approval.



 



   If the Director discontinues or revokes any land use or discretionary
zoning approval pursuant to this section, the full cost of the abatement,
including the cost of inspection, shall become the personal obligation of the
business operator, property owner, or person in control.  If confirmed by
the Council, a lien may be placed against the property in accordance with the
procedures described in Administrative Code Sec. 7.35.3.



 



   3.   Compliance Review.  Upon any finding of nuisance or
non-compliance with existing conditions imposed on the land use or
discretionary zoning approval, the Director's determination shall impose a
condition requiring the business operator or property owner to file a Plan
Approval application for Review of Compliance with Conditions within two
years of the effective date.  At the discretion of the Director, the due
date for the Plan Approval application can be set for 90 days, 180 days, one
year, 18 months or two years from the effective date of the Director's
determination or the Council action on appeal.



 



   4.   Appeals.  An appeal from the decision of the Director may be
taken to the Council in the same manner as prescribed in Section 12.24 I.



 



   An appeal fee shall be charged pursuant to Section 19.01 P.  The
Council's decision on appeal shall be processed in the manner prescribed in
Section 12.24 I.6.



 



   Further, if it is determined by the Council that the decision of the
Director impairs the constitutional rights of any person, then it shall
modify the action accordingly, or refer the matter back to the Director for
further action.



 



   5.   Violations.  It shall be unlawful to violate or fail to comply
with any requirement or condition imposed by the Director or the Council
pursuant to this section.  Violation or failure to comply shall constitute a
violation of this chapter and shall be subject to the same penalties as any
other violation of this chapter. In the event of a violation of an order to
discontinue or revoke a land use or discretionary zoning approval pursuant to
this section, the Department of Building and Safety shall order the owner to
vacate and secure the property, premises, buildings or portion of any
property, premises or building pursuant to Section 91.9003 of this Code. 
The Department of Building and Safety shall institute enforcement as provided
in Section 91.9003.3 of this Code.  The Director shall cause the
determination or revocation to be recorded.



 



   D.   Residential Uses.  This subsection shall apply to all
single-family and multi-family residential uses, including residential hotels
as defined in Section 47.73 T. of this Code.  This subsection shall not
apply to hotels or motels that are not residential hotels. Nothing in this
section or Section 91.9001 et seq. of this Code is intended to supersede or
abrogate the rights of tenants provided by State statute or by the Los
Angeles Housing Code and Rent Stabilization Ordinance, or by any other
provision of this Code.



 



   1.   The Director, as the initial decision maker, or the Council on
appeal, shall ask the City Attorney to initiate the process of having the
residential use placed in receivership pursuant to California Civil Code
Section 3479 and Code of Civil Procedure Section 564(b)(9), upon finding that:



 



   (a)   prior governmental efforts to cause the owner or operator to
eliminate the problems associated with the land use or discretionary zoning
approval have failed (examples include formal action, such as citations,
orders or hearings by the Police Department, Department of Building and
Safety, the Director, a Zoning Administrator, the City Planning Commission,
or any other governmental agency); and



 



   (b)   that the owner or operator has failed to demonstrate, to the
satisfaction of the Director, the willingness or ability to eliminate the
problems associated with the land use or discretionary zoning approval.



 



   2.   If the residential use is not placed in receivership and the
Director, as the initial decision maker, or the Council on appeal,
discontinues or revokes the land use or discretionary zoning approval,
resulting in the displacement of tenants then the following provisions shall
apply:  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,718, Eff. 10/30/13.)



 



   (a)   The Housing and Community Investment Department shall identify
each tenant who was displaced and is eligible for relocation assistance, and
shall issue an order requiring the owner to pay relocation benefits in the
amounts specified in Section 151.09 G. of this Code.



 



   (b)   If the owner fails to pay relocation benefits to an eligible
tenant as required by this subsection, the Housing and Community Investment
Department may advance relocation benefits to the tenant in the amount set
forth in Section 151.09 G. of this Code.



 



   (c)   If the owner fails to comply with an order of the Housing and
Community Investment Department to pay relocation benefits, the owner shall
be liable to the City for any relocation payments advanced, and the Housing
and Community Investment Department may obtain a lien upon the property
pursuant to Los Angeles Administrative Code Section 7.35.3 to recover the
amount advanced and associated costs.



 



   (d)   Relocation benefits shall not be payable to any tenant who has
caused or substantially contributed to the condition giving rise to an order
to vacate issued pursuant to Section 91.9003.1 of this Code.  The Director
shall determine whether a tenant has caused or substantially contributed to
the condition giving rise to the order to vacate.



 



   (e)   The Housing and Community Investment Department shall inform
each eligible tenant of his/her right to re-rental of the same unit, or
comparable unit, if the owner, or subsequent owner, re-establishes the
residential use.  The Housing and Community Investment Department shall
inform the eligible tenant that he/she must advise the owner in writing of
his/her interest in re-renting and must provide the owner with an address to
which the owner can direct an offer.



 



   (f)   When the residential use is re-established, the accommodations
shall be offered, and rented or leased at the lawful rent in effect at the
time the residential use was discontinued or revoked, plus annual adjustments
available under Section 151.06 of this Code.



 



   (g)   The Director's determination or the Council's action shall
include the provisions of this subsection and shall be recorded by the
Director as a covenant with the Office of the County Recorder.



 



   E.   Modification of Administrative Decisions.  Any administrative
nuisance abatement decision made pursuant to this chapter, any conditions
imposed by that decision, or any decisions on a discretionary zoning approval
pursuant to this section may be modified pursuant to the provisions of this
subsection.  Upon application by the business operator, property owner or
lessee(s), the Director may modify or eliminate the conditions of a prior
decision.  An application shall be made on official forms provided by the
Department of Planning and shall be accompanied by a filing fee as specified
in Section 19.01 P.



 



   An application may be considered if a time period of at least one year
has passed from the date the conditions were originally imposed; or if there
have been substantial changes in the nature and operation of the land use or
discretionary zoning approval; or if there has been a change in circumstances
such that the continued enforcement of the previously imposed conditions is
no longer reasonable or necessary.  All applications shall include a radius
map, a list of property owners and occupants within 500 feet, and plot plan
drawn to scale.



 



   An application shall be set for public hearing.  The Director may
grant or deny the requested application, or modify the prior decision,
including imposing new or different substitute conditions as the Director
deems appropriate.  No modification shall be approved pursuant to this
subsection unless the Director finds each of the following:



 



   1.   That the requirements for consideration of the application
under this subsection have been met; and



 



   2.   That due consideration has been given to the effects of the
modification on surrounding properties.



 



   An appeal from the decision of the Director may be taken to the Council
in the same manner as prescribed in Subsection C. of this section.



 



   When the Director orders the discontinuance or revocation of a land use
or discretionary zoning approval and the applicant files for re-instatement
of the land use pursuant to this subsection, the Director may re-instate the
land use if all findings of this subsection are met.  The applicant will not
be issued a new certificate of occupancy.



 



   Subsequent applications for reconsideration may be filed in accordance
with this subsection.  If the application is denied with prejudice, a
subsequent application for reconsideration shall not be filed within one year
from the reconsideration decision date, and then only if a property owner,
business operator or lessee(s) shows that the circumstances involving the
land use or discretionary zoning approval have substantially and materially
changed since the last reconsideration.



 



   F.   Continuation of Prior Decisions.  Prior administrative
nuisance abatement decisions regarding land uses and discontinuances,
revocations, rescissions or modifications of discretionary zoning approvals
made by the Zoning Administrator, City Planning Commission or the Council
shall remain in full force and effect.  Further, it shall continue to be
unlawful to violate or fail to comply with any prior requirement or condition
imposed by the Zoning Administrator, the former Board of Zoning Appeals, the
City Planning Commission, or the Council.  Violation or failure to comply
shall constitute a violation of this chapter and shall be subject to the same
penalties as any other violation of this chapter.  In the event of a
violation of an order of discontinuance or revocation, the Department of
Building and Safety shall order the business operator, property owner or
lessee(s) to vacate and secure the property, premises, buildings or portion
thereof pursuant to Section 91.9003 of this Code.  The Department of
Building and Safety shall institute enforcement as provided in LAMC Sec.
91.9003.4 of this Code.



 



 



SEC. 12.28.  ADJUSTMENTS AND SLIGHT MODIFICATIONS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)



 



   A.   Adjustments.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,624, Eff. 5/9/11.) 
The Zoning Administrator shall have the authority to grant adjustments in the
Yard, area, Building line and height requirements of Chapter 1 of this
Code.  An adjustment shall not be permitted for relief from a density (Lot
area per unit) or height requirement, excluding fences and hedges, if the
request represents an increase of 20 percent or more than what is otherwise
permitted by this Code.  A request for an increase of 20 percent or more
shall be made as an application for a variance pursuant to Section 12.27 of
this Code, except as may be permitted by other provisions of Chapter 1 of
this Code.



 



   The Zoning Administrator shall also have the authority to grant
adjustments in Residential Floor Area of no more than a ten percent increase
beyond what is otherwise permitted by Chapter 1 of this Code.  A request for
an increase in Residential Floor Area greater than ten percent shall be made
as an application for a variance pursuant to Section 12.27 of this Code,
except as may be permitted by other provisions of Chapter 1 of this Code.



 



   B.   Slight Modifications - Authority of Zoning Administrator.  The
Zoning Administrator shall have the authority to grant slight modifications
in the yard and area requirements of Chapter 1 of this Code where
circumstances make the literal application of the yard and area requirements
impractical.  Slight Modifications from the yard and area requirements shall
be limited to:



 



   1.   deviations permitting portions of buildings to extend into a
required yard or other open space a distance of no more than 20 percent of
the width or depth of the required yard or open space only when the request
is filed incidental to another application or appeal within the jurisdiction
of the Zoning Administrator; and



 



   2.   deviations of no more than ten percent from the required lot
area regulations.  In those cases, the procedures for notice, hearing, time
limits and appeals shall be the same as those applicable to the underlying
application or appeal.  In granting a slight modification, a Zoning
Administrator may impose conditions related to the interests addressed in the
findings set forth in Subdivision 4. of Subsection C. below.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 182,095, Eff. 5/7/11.)



 



   C.   Procedures for Slight Modifications and Adjustments.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.) The initial decision-maker for
adjustments or slight modifications shall be the Zoning Administrator and the
appellate body shall be the Area Planning Commission.  Procedures for slight
modifications and adjustments shall be as set forth in Section 12.24B through
J, except as otherwise provided here.



 



   1.   Applications for a Slight Modification or Adjustment.  An
application for an adjustment or a slight modification shall be filed
pursuant to this section, upon forms provided by the Department of City
Planning and accompanied by applicable fees.  Each application shall be
verified by the owner or lessee of the property involved.  In the case of a
slight modification of the area requirements, the verification of the
application may be waived.



 



   2.   Public Hearing and Notice.  The following are exceptions to
the public hearing and notice requirements in Section 12.24.



 



   (a)   An application for an adjustment shall be set for public
hearing unless the Zoning Administrator makes written findings in the record
that the requested adjustment:



 



   (1)   will not have a significant effect on adjoining properties or
on the immediate neighborhood; or



 



   (2)   is not likely to evoke public controversy.



 



   (b)   The Zoning Administrator may set an application for an
adjustment or slight modification for public hearing, even though a public
hearing is not otherwise required, if the Zoning Administrator determines
that it would be in the public interest.  In that event, written notices of
the public hearing shall be mailed to the owners of all properties abutting,
across the street or alley from or having a common corner with the subject
property.  When a public hearing is scheduled pursuant to this section,
written notices shall be mailed at least 24 days prior to the date of the
hearing.  The last known names and addresses of the owners as shown on the
records of the City Engineer or the records of the County Assessor.  Notice
of the public hearing shall be posted, by the applicant in a conspicuous
place on the property involved at least ten days prior to the date of the
public hearing.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,595, Eff. 4/10/11.)



 



   (c)   An application for an adjustment to permit a game court,
including a tennis or paddle tennis court, accessory to a primary residential
use on the same lot, or to permit the erection of light standards in
conjunction with that use shall be set for public hearing and notice shall be
given in the same manner required for adjustments unless the applicant has
secured the approval of the owners of all properties abutting, across the
street or alley from or having a common corner with the subject property.



 



   (d)   For R1, RS, RE and RA Zoned properties the Zoning
Administrator must conduct a public hearing for any Adjustment or Slight
Modification requests.  (Amended by Ord. No. 184,802, Eff. 3/17/17.)



 



   3.   Initial Decision by Zoning Administrator.  Decisions by a
Zoning Administrator shall be supported by written findings of fact based
upon written or oral statements and documents presented to him or her which
may include photographs, maps, and plans, together with the result of his or
her investigations.  Upon making a determination pursuant to an application
for an adjustment or slight modification, the Zoning Administrator shall
place a copy of the determination and any written findings in the file and
furnish a copy to the Department of Building and Safety.  Furthermore, with
respect to adjustments, whether or not set for public hearing and with
respect to slight modifications which have been set for public hearing, a
copy of the determination shall be mailed to the applicant, and to the owners
of all properties abutting, across the street or alley from, or having a
common corner with the subject property and to all persons who have filed
written requests for notice with the Office of Zoning Administration.



 



   With respect to slight modifications which have not been set for public
hearing, a copy of the determination shall be mailed to the applicant, to the
owner of the subject property if other than the applicant, and to all persons
who have filed written requests for notice with the Office of Zoning
Administration.



 



   4.   Findings for Approval of Adjustments.  (Amended by Ord. No.
182,095, Eff. 5/7/12.)  The Zoning Administrator shall not grant an
application for an adjustment unless he or she finds:



 



   (a)   that while site characteristics or existing improvements make
strict adherence to the zoning regulations impractical or infeasible, the
project nonetheless conforms with the intent of those regulations;



 



   (b)   that in light of the project as a whole, including any
mitigation measures imposed, the project's location, size, height, operations
and other significant features will be compatible with and will not adversely
affect or further degrade adjacent properties, the surrounding neighborhood,
or the public health, welfare, and safety; and



 



   (c)   that the project is in substantial conformance with the
purpose, intent and provisions of the General Plan, the applicable community
plan and any applicable specific plan.



 



   5.   Conditions for Approval.  In approving an adjustment or slight
modification, the Zoning Administrator may impose those conditions he or she
deems necessary to remedy a disparity of privileges and that are necessary to
protect the public health, safety or welfare and assure compliance with the
objectives of the General Plan and the purpose and intent of the zoning.



 



   D.   Discontinuance of Adjustment - Revocation.  (Added by Ord. No.
173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.) The revocation procedures that apply to variances in
Section 12.27S shall also apply to adjustments.



 



   E.   Adjustment - Plan Approvals.  (Added by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff.
10/10/00.) The plan approval procedures that apply to variances in Section
12.27U shall also apply to adjustments.



 



 



SEC. 12.29.  VIOLATION OF CONDITIONS – PENALTY.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)



 



   A variance, conditional use, adjustment, public benefit or other
quasi-judicial approval, or any conditional approval granted by the Director,
pursuant to the authority of this chapter shall become effective upon
utilization of any portion of the privilege, and the owner and applicant
shall immediately comply with its conditions.  The violation of any valid
condition imposed by the Director, Zoning Administrator, Area Planning
Commission, City Planning Commission or City Council in connection with the
granting of any action taken pursuant to the authority of this chapter, shall
constitute a violation of this chapter and shall be subject to the same
penalties as any other violation of this Code.



 



 



SEC. 12.30.  BOUNDARIES OF ZONES.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)



 



   A.   Purpose.  It is intended that zone and height district
boundaries coincide with street, alley, or lot lines, unless otherwise shown
on the zoning map.  However, under certain conditions, zone boundaries do
not precisely coincide with street, alley, or lot lines and in those cases,
the Director shall make adjustments pursuant to this section.  Boundary
adjustments are normally requested in contemplation of more extensive
development of the property involved.  In connection with those plans,
standard street dedication is essential.  Therefore, the following procedure
is necessary to be established so that standard dedication and improvement of
streets and alleys abutting the subject property may be required, where
reasonable, as a prerequisite to the approval of the zone boundary adjustment.



 



   B.   Street, Alley or Lot Lines.  The zone boundaries shall be
either street, alley or lot lines unless otherwise shown on the zoning map,
and where the indicated boundaries on the zoning map are approximately
street, alley or lot lines, the street, alley or lot lines shall be construed
to be the boundaries of those zones.



 



   C.   Scale on Map.  Where the zone boundary lines are not
approximately street alley or lot lines, or where property indicated on the
zoning map is acreage and not subdivided into lots and blocks, the zone
boundary lines on the zoning map shall be determined by the scale contained
on the map.



 



   D.   Symbol for Zone.  Where one symbol is used on the zoning map
to indicate the zone classification of an area divided by an alley or alleys,
that symbol shall establish the classification of the whole of that area.



 



   E.   Street or Right of Way - Allocation or Division.  A street,
alley, railroad or railway right-of-way, watercourse, channel or body of
water, included on the zoning map shall, unless otherwise indicated, be
included within the zones of adjoining property on either side of the street,
alley, railroad or railway right-of-way, watercourse, channel or body of
water; and where the street, alley, right-of-way, watercourse, channel or
body of water, serves as a boundary between two or more different zones, a
line midway in the street, alley, right-of-way, watercourse, channel or body
of water, and extending in the general direction of its long dimension shall
be considered the boundary between zones.



 



   F.   Vacated Street or Alley.  In the event a dedicated street or
alley shown on the zoning map is vacated by ordinance, the property formerly
in the street or alley shall be included within the zone of the adjoining
property on either side of the vacated street or alley.  In the event the
street or alley was a zone boundary between two or more different zones, the
new zone boundary shall be the former center line of the vacated street or
alley.



 



   G.   Individual Adjustments.  The Director may, upon written
request and after notice and hearing to the owners of the property affected
by the proposed decision, make minor adjustments in the location of zone
boundaries to carry out the intent of this section when:



 



   1.   Property as shown on the zoning map was in acreage but has been
subsequently divided or approved for division into parcels or lots and blocks
by a parcel map or final tract map and the parcel or lot and block
arrangement does not conform to that anticipated when the zone boundaries
were established;



 



   2.   Property was redivided or approved for redivision by a parcel
or final tract map into a different arrangement of lots and blocks than
indicated on the zoning map; or



 



   3.   A lot which was of record in the Los Angeles County
Recorder’s Office on July 30, 1962, and which was on that date and is, at
the time the request is made, in two different zones as determined by scaling
the zoning map and where there is nothing apparent on the map to indicate
that the zone boundary line should be retained in its scaled location. 
Where uncertainty exists in applying the provisions of this section or where
revision is necessary to correct dimensional or mapping errors the Director
may, upon his or her own initiative, or upon the request of the Planning
Department staff, determine the location of the zone boundary lines by
written decision.  Zone boundary adjustments permitted pursuant to this
subsection shall be limited to a distance of no more than 50 feet.  When the
adjustment is requested prior to recordation because of a situation arising
as described in Subdivisions 1 and 2 of this subsection the Director’s
decision shall not become effective until after the parcel map or final tract
map has been recorded with the Office of the County Recorder.



 



   H.   Director Decision.  Whenever the public necessity,
convenience, general welfare or good zoning practice justify the action, the
Director may approve, conditionally approve or deny any zone boundary
adjustment.  The Director may impose any conditions he or she deems
appropriate to mitigate the negative impacts created by the development made
possible by a zone boundary adjustment.  One of the conditions may require
that the abutting streets, alleys or highways be dedicated and improved in
conformance with the standards for improvement of streets, alleys and
highways, if the Director determines that traffic on the abutting streets,
alleys or highways will be increased or impeded as a result of the zone
boundary adjustment.  However, an offer to dedicate and/or filing of a bond
in conformance with the procedures set forth in Section 12.37C and D of this
Code shall be construed as compliance with these requirements.  The zoning
map in the City Planning Department shall be made to conform with the
Director’s decision after the conditions imposed, if any, by the Director
have been fulfilled.



 



   I.   Maps.  A reproducible map shall accompany each application for
boundary adjustments.  This map shall be legibly drawn using a scale of 100
feet or 200 feet to the inch and in addition to data the Director may require
in order to make a proper decision on the request for boundary adjustment,
the map shall clearly show the following:



 



   1.   The dimensions and legal description of the parcel, the
existing zone lines and the distance from the parcel to the nearest cross
street; and



 



   2.   The abutting streets, alleys and highways and their dedicated
width.



 



   J.   Height Districts.  The procedure provided for in this section
for the decisions on boundaries of zones shall also be followed in deciding
boundaries of height districts.



 



   K.   Adjustment of C or M and P or PB Zone Boundaries.



 



   1.   Where a combination of C or M and P or PB Zones has been
established on a lot, the Director may, upon written request from the owner
of the property involved, adjust the boundary between the C or M Zone and the
P or PB Zone, provided that the C or M Zone is not increased in area and that
no portion of the C or M Zone is adjusted to within 50 feet of a street,
center line of an alley or an A or R Zone, except that the C or M Zone may be
as close to any particular street, alley center line or lot line in an A or R
Zone as it was prior to the adjustment of the boundary.  This exception
shall not apply to a lot or portion of a lot in the C or M Zone which is less
than 250 square feet.



 



   2.   Appeal - Form and Contents - Filing Fee.  An applicant or any
other person aggrieved by a decision of the Director of Planning made
relative to the boundaries of these zones, may appeal the decision to the
Area Planning Commission.  That appeal shall be in writing upon forms
provided by the Department of City Planning and shall be accompanied by a fee
as set forth in Section 19.01B.  The appeal shall set forth specifically the
basis of the appeal and the reasons why the decision should be reversed or
modified.  The appeal shall be filed within 15 days from the date of mailing
of the Director’s decision.



 



 



SEC. 12.31.  INTERPRETATION – PURPOSE – CONFLICT.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 141,821, Eff. 5/24/71.)



 



   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, they shall
be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public
health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. It is not intended
by this chapter to interfere with or abrogate or annul any easement, covenant
or other agreement between parties. Where this chapter imposes a greater
restriction upon the use of buildings or land, or upon the height of
buildings, or requires larger open spaces than are imposed or required by
other ordinances, rules, regulations or by easements, covenants or
agreements, the provisions of this chapter shall control. Provided, that such
provisions shall not apply to any variance or exception granted prior to the
effective date of this article: (a) by ordinance pursuant to the provisions
of Ordinances Nos. 42,666 (N.S.), 66,750, 74,140 or Chapter I of the Los
Angeles Municipal Code, and which variance or exception has been utilized and
not repealed by Section 12.27-B, 6 of this chapter; (b) by determination of
the Administrator or Board pursuant to the provisions of Chapter I of said
Code; and (c) by determination of the former Board of City Planning
Commissioners pursuant to the provisions of Ordinance No. 74,145 or Chapter I
of said Code. Provided, further, that such provisions shall not be
interpreted or construed as interfering with the continuation of those
existing specific uses which heretofore were required by Ordinance to be
located in the following special districts:



 



   (a)   Cemetery Districts – Ordinance No. 19,534 (N.S.);



 



   (b)   Undertaking Districts – Ordinance No. 31,746 (N.S.);



 



   (c)   Public Camp Districts – Ordinance No. 44,434 (N.S.);



 



   (d)   Mental Sanitarium Districts – Ordinance No. 58,647; and



 



   (e)   Rabbit and Poultry Slaughter House District – Ordinance No.
65,050.



 



   In no case, however, shall any of the above uses be extended or
expanded  onto property not so used at the time this article became
effective.



 



 



SEC. 12.32.  LAND USE LEGISLATIVE ACTIONS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)



 



   A.   Initiation.  The City Council, the City Planning Commission or
the Director of Planning may initiate consideration of a proposed land use
ordinance.  Any initiation by the Council or the City Planning Commission
shall be by majority vote.  The Council or the City Planning Commission
shall forward the proposed ordinance to the Director of Planning for a report
and recommendation.



 



   B.   Application.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,374, Eff. 8/3/00.)  An
owner of property may apply for a proposed land use ordinance if authorized
to do so by Subsections F through S relative to that owner’s property. 
The applicant shall complete the application for that proposed land use
ordinance, pay the required fee and file the application with the Department
of City Planning on a form provided by the Department.



 



   C.   Action on the Initiation or Application.



 



   1.   Authority.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.) 
The City Planning Commission may recommend approval or disapproval in whole
or in part of an application for or initiation of a proposed land use
ordinance.  These recommendations shall be made to the City Council for its
action pursuant to the procedures set forth in this section.



 



   Except as set forth elsewhere in this section, the Area Planning
Commissions shall hear and make recommendations only on applications for or
initiations of a land use ordinance involving a proposed zone or height
district change, if the proposed zone or height district change involves:



 



   (a)   Any development project which creates or results in fewer than
50,000 gross square feet of nonresidential floor area;



 



   (b)   Any development project which creates or results in fewer than
50 dwelling units, guest rooms or combination of dwelling units or guest
rooms; or



 



   (c)   Any application without a proposed project description,
involving a lot with fewer than 65,000 square feet of lot area.



 



   The Area Planning Commission may recommend approval or disapproval in
whole or in part of an application for a land use ordinance where permitted
in this section.  These recommendations shall be made to the City Council
for its action pursuant to the procedures set forth in this section.



 



   The City Planning Commission shall hear all other applications or
initiations of proposed land use ordinances.  Notwithstanding the above, the
City Planning Commission, rather than the Area Planning Commission, shall
have the authority to make recommendations on any application for or
initiation of a proposed land use ordinance when it is being considered in
conjunction with an initiated General Plan amendment.



 



   Unless otherwise specified, further references in this subsection to
“Planning Commission” shall mean either the Area Planning Commission or
the City Planning Commission, whichever has authority as set forth above.



 



   2.   Procedure for Initiated Changes.  (Amended by Ord. No.
173,754, Eff. 3/5/01.)  The Director shall make a recommendation for action
on the matter, which recommendation shall then be heard by the Planning
Commission.  Before making a recommendation, the Director may direct a
Hearing Officer to hold a public hearing and make a report and
recommendation.  After receipt of the Director’s recommendation, the
Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing and make a report and
recommendation to the Council regarding the relation of the proposed land use
ordinance to the General Plan and whether adoption of the proposed land use
ordinance will be in conformity with public necessity, convenience, general
welfare and good zoning practice.  If the matter was initiated by either the
City Planning Commission or the Director, and the City Planning Commission
recommends denial of the proposed land use ordinance, the decision is
final.  After the Planning Commission has made its report and recommendation
for approval, or after the time for it to act has expired, the Council may
consider the matter.



 



   3.   Procedure for Applications.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,754,
Eff. 3/5/01.)  Once a complete application is received, as determined by the
Director, the Commission shall hold a public hearing or direct a Hearing
Officer to hold the hearing.  If a Hearing Officer holds the public hearing,
he or she shall make a recommendation for action on the application.  That
recommendation shall then be heard by the Planning Commission, which may hold
a public hearing and shall make a report and recommendation regarding the
relation of the proposed land use ordinance to the General Plan and whether
adoption of the proposed land use ordinance will be in conformity with public
necessity, convenience, general welfare and good zoning practice.



 



   After the Planning Commission has made its report and recommendation,
or after the time for it to act has expired, the Council may consider the
matter.  If the Planning Commission recommends disapproval, that action is
final unless the applicant timely files an appeal pursuant to Subsection D
below.



 



   4.   Notice.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,754, Eff. 3/5/01.)  Notice
of the time, place and purpose of the public hearing shall be given in the
following manner for land use ordinances proposed by applications or
initiations:



 



   (a)   By at least one publication in a newspaper of general
circulation in the City, designated for that purpose by the City Clerk, not
less than 24 days prior to the date of the hearing.



 



   (b)   By mailing written notice at least 24 days prior to the date
of the hearing, to the applicant, to the owner or owners of the property
involved and to the owners of all property within and outside the City that
is within 500 feet of the area proposed to be changed as shown upon the
records of the City Engineer or the records of the County Assessor.  Written
notice shall also be mailed to residential, commercial and industrial
occupants of all property within 500 feet of the exterior boundaries of the
property involved.  This requirement can be met by mailing the notice to
"occupant".  If this notice provision will not result in notice being given
to at least 20 different owners of at least 20 different parcels of property
other than the subject property, then the 500-foot radius for notification
shall be increased in increments of 50 feet until the required number of
persons, and parcels of property are encompassed within the expanded area. 
Notification shall then be given to all property owners and occupants within
that area.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,595, Eff. 4/10/11.)



 



   (c)   If there is an applicant, by the applicant posting notice of
the public hearing in a conspicuous place on the property involved at least
ten days prior to the date of the public hearing.  If a hearing officer is
designated to conduct the public hearing then the applicant, in addition to
posting notice of the public hearing, shall also post notice of the initial
Commission meeting on the matter.  This notice shall be posted in a
conspicuous place on the property involved at least ten days prior to the
date of the meeting.



 



   5.   Record and Reports from Commission Public Hearing.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 173,754, Eff. 3/5/01.)



 



   (a)   Record.  The hearing proceedings shall be recorded or
summarized as directed by the Commission.  When proceedings are recorded and
not summarized, they shall be transcribed at the request of any party or
interested person upon payment of the fee, as required by ordinance.  One
copy of the transcript shall be furnished to the Commission to be placed in
the files.



 



   (b)   Reports.  After the conclusion of a public hearing conducted
by the Director, he or she shall submit a report to the Commission within the
period of time fixed by the Commission.  The report shall set forth in
writing the Director’s conclusions and recommendations and the reasons for
them.



 



   6.   Time for the Commission to Act.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,754,
Eff. 3/5/01.)  The Planning Commission shall act within 75 days of the
filing of a complete, verified application for a proposed land use ordinance,
except as otherwise provided in this section.  This time limit may be
extended by mutual consent of the applicant and the Planning Commission.



 



   The Planning Commission may withhold action on an application relating
to land located within an area in which the City Planning Commission is
conducting a general survey or study, for a period of not more than 180 days
from the date of filing of the application.  Upon the Planning
Commission’s decision to withhold action, notice of this decision shall be
sent forthwith to the applicant, advising of the study and the postponement.



 



   However, if the Director determines that a verified application is
inconsistent with the General Plan, then the Planning Commission, with the
consent of the applicant, may withhold action on the application for a period
of not more than 180 days from the closing date of the applicable application
filing period established in the schedule adopted pursuant to Section 11.5.8D
of this Code.  This time limit may be extended for two additional three
month periods by mutual consent of the applicant and the Planning Commission.



 



   If the land use ordinance was proposed by initiation rather than
application, the Planning Commission shall act within 75 days of receipt of
the Director’s report and recommendation.  If the Planning Commission does
not act by that deadline, or any extension, the Council may then, by
resolution, request the Planning Commission to forward the matter to it for
the Council’s action.  If the Council does not do so, the time for the
Planning Commission to act shall automatically be extended for an additional
75 days.  The Council may request the Planning Commission forward the matter
at any time within any 75 day continuance period.



 



   If the Planning Commission fails to act on an application or an
initiation within the time allowed by this section, the Planning Commission
shall be deemed to have approved the ordinance.



 



   7.   Council. (Amended by Ord. No. 173,992, Eff. 7/6/01.)  The
Council may approve or disapprove an application or initiated proposed land
use ordinance.  It shall approve an ordinance only after making findings
that its action is consistent with the General Plan and is in conformity with
public necessity, convenience, general welfare and good zoning practice.  If
the Planning Commission recommends approval of an application, then the
Council shall act within 90 days of receipt of the Planning Commission
recommendation.  The 90 day time limit to act on a Planning Commission
approval of an application may be extended by mutual consent of the applicant
and the Council.



 



   D.   Appeal.



 



   1.   Filing of an Appeal.  If the Planning Commission recommends
disapproval of an application, in whole or in part, the applicant may appeal
that decision to the Council by filing an appeal with the Planning Commission
that made the initial decision.  If no appeal is filed, a denial is final. 
An appeal shall be filed within 20 days of the date of the mailing of the
Planning Commission’s decision, on a form provided by the Department, and
shall set forth specifically the reasons for the appeal.  Any appeal not
filed within the 20-day period shall not be considered by the Council.  Once
an appeal is filed, the Planning Commission shall transmit the appeal and its
file to the City Clerk.  At any time prior to the action of the Council on
the appeal, the Department shall submit any supplementary, pertinent
information as the Council or its Committee may request.



 



   2.   Appellate Decision - Public Hearing and Notice.  Before the
Council acts on the appeal, it shall hold a public hearing.  The City Clerk
shall set the matter for hearing, giving notice by mail of the time, place
and purpose of the hearing to the applicant and to any interested party who
has requested in writing to be so notified.  The notice shall be mailed at
least ten days prior to the hearing.



 



   3.   Time for Appellate Decision.  The Council shall make its
decision within 75 days after the expiration of the appeal period.  The 75
day time limit to act on an appeal may be extended by mutual written consent
of the applicant and the Council.  If the Council fails to act within this
time limit, the failure shall constitute a denial of the application or
disapproval of the initiated land use ordinance.



 



   E.   Amendment to the Zoning Regulations.  The procedures for
initiation and decision-making for amendments to Chapter 1 of this Code and
other zoning regulations shall be the same as provided for City Planning
Commission and Council initiated zone changes as set forth above, except that
the City Planning Commission shall be the designated Planning Commission for
these actions and proceedings for the amendment of the regulations need not
comply with the notice requirements in Subsection C 4, nor be set for public
hearing.



 



   F.   Zone Changes and Height District Changes.  The procedures for
changes of zoning or height districts shall be as set forth in Subsections A
through D, with the following additional regulations:



 



   1.   In the consideration of an application for a proposed land use
ordinance involving a change of zone, the Planning Commission may approve or
disapprove a change upon all or only a part of the subject area.  The
Planning Commission may recommend a change to any zone between that existing
on the property and that requested in the application, as determined by the
Planning Commission, or may recommend, on all or a portion of the property, a
change to a P or PB Zone, or may recommend that an M Zone be changed to an MR
Zone.  The Planning Commission may, without additional notice or hearing,
recommend minor additions to the area proposed for rezoning or slight
adjustments of proposed zone boundaries within that area, when the Planning
Commission determines that the public necessity, convenience, general welfare
or good zoning practice so require.



 



   2.   Where the City initiates changes of zone or height districts
pursuant to California Government Code Section 65860(d) to a significant
number of lots, publication in two newspapers of general circulation
designated by the City Clerk for official advertising in the area involved,
not less than ten days prior to the date of the public hearing, giving notice
of its time, place and purpose shall be sufficient notice of the hearing, and
the mailing of individual notices shall not be required.



 



   G.   Special Zoning Classifications.



 



   1.   T Classification.



 



   (a)   Purpose.  In the consideration of a proposed change of zone
it may be determined that public necessity, convenience and general welfare
require that provision be made for the orderly arrangement of the property
concerned into lots and/or that provision be made for adequate streets,
drainage facilities, grading, sewers, utilities, park and recreational
facilities; and/or that provision be made for payments of fees in lieu of
dedications and/or that provision be made for other dedications; and/or that
provision be made for improvements; all in order that the property concerned
and the area within which it is located may be properly developed in
accordance with the different and additional uses to be permitted within the
zone to which the property is proposed for change.



 



   (b)   T Classification.  Instead of immediately and finally
rezoning the property or changing the height district, the ordinance shall
place it in a T or Tentative classification pending the recordation of a
Final Map in compliance with the provisions and requirements of Article 7 of
this chapter, or, in certain instances hereinafter specified by the
recordation of a Parcel Map in compliance with said provisions and
requirements, or, where no map is necessary, by completion or assurance of
all dedications, payments, and improvements which are required by the Council
to be provided, to the satisfaction of the appropriate City departments. 
For the purposes of this Subsection, the term “payments” shall include
dedications or payments pursuant to Section 12.33 of this Chapter.



 



   (c)   Map Symbol.  The T or Tentative classification shall be
indicated by the symbol T in parentheses preceding the proposed zoning
designation; for example, (T)R4-2.



 



   (d)   Allowed Uses.  While property remains in the T Tentative
classification, and until the Department of Building and Safety has received
notification from the Department of the recordation of the Final Map or
Parcel Map, or the completion or assurance of the required dedications,
payments or improvements, which are to the satisfaction of the appropriate
City departments in accordance with those conditions as have been imposed by
the City Council, the property may continue to be used only for the purposes
permitted in the zone applicable to the property prior to its T Tentative
classification. No permits shall be issued, no buildings or structures shall
be erected or constructed, and no land shall be used for any other purpose. 
Provided, however, that grading or other improvements which have been
required as a prerequisite to the approval of the Final Map or Parcel Map or
other required dedications, payments and improvements of the property may be
accomplished.  The Council may also permit the removal of the T Tentative
classification by the recordation of a Parcel Map or by completion of all
required dedications, payments and improvements in lieu of a Final Map after
report and recommendations from the Director that all the necessary
improvements can be accomplished and assured under Parcel Map procedures; or
where no map is necessary, completion of all required dedications, payments
and improvements.



 



   (e)   Time Limit.  Property shall remain in the T Tentative
classification until a Final Map or a Parcel Map of the property has been
approved by the Council and recorded in the County Recorder’s Office, or
until the Department has notified the Superintendent of Building of the
completion to the satisfaction of the appropriate City agencies of all
required dedications, payments and improvements, or until the classification
expires as provided in this subsection.  Unless otherwise authorized by the
City Council, dedications, payments and improvements must be completed for
the entire area subject to the change of zone.



 



   (f)   Removal of T.  When a Final Map or Parcel Map has been
approved by the Council and recorded, or the Superintendent of Building has
been notified by the Department of the completion of all required
dedications, payments, and improvements, the  property shall no longer be
designated as being within the T Tentative classification, the T Tentative
designation shall be removed from City records, and the new zone designation
shall become finally effective. The Council may authorize the removal of a T
Tentative classification by any procedure which assures any appropriate
dedications, payments or improvements including any dedication, payment or
improvement described in Section 12.33 of this chapter.  If the Tentative
classification expires, the zone change and height district proceedings shall
terminate and the property shall be redesignated as described in Paragraph
(h) below.



 



   (g)   Assurance of Dedications, Payments and Improvements.  Prior
to making a report and recommendation, the Director of Planning or his
authorized representative shall obtain a report from the Bureau of
Engineering as to whether all the necessary improvements can be accomplished
and assured under Parcel Map procedures, or, if no map is necessary, without
a map.  The report shall be made within 40 calendar days of the date of
request or within additional time as may be agreed upon by the Department and
the Bureau of Engineering.



 



   (h)   Time Limit.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,106, Eff. 5/20/12.) 
Except as provided in Subdivision 2. of this subsection, as to those
properties placed in the T classification subsequent to March 26, 1973,
property shall not remain in a T Tentative classification for more than six
years after the effective date of the ordinance creating it without the
recording of a Final Tract Map or a Final Parcel Map, or a decision by the
Department that all required dedications, payments and improvements have been
made or assured to the satisfaction of the appropriate City agencies.



 



   EXCEPTIONS:  Property may remain in a T Tentative classification for
an additional 60 months if the ordinance creating the classification took
effect between July 15, 2005, and December 31, 2007; an additional 48 months
if the ordinance took effect between January 1, 2008, through December 31,
2008; and an additional 24 months if the ordinance took effect between
January 1, 2009, and December 31, 2010, provided that the Director makes a
written finding that the prior discretionary approval and the required
environmental review considered significant aspects of the approved project
and that the existing environmental documentation under the California
Environmental Quality Act is adequate for the issuance of the extension. 
Property may also remain in a T Tentative classification for a longer period
of time through operation of Section 12.36 I. of the Code.



 



   When these time limitations expire, the T Tentative Zone classification
and the zoning authorized thereby shall become null and void, the rezoning
proceeding shall be terminated, and the property thereafter may only be
utilized for those purposes permitted prior to the commencement of the
rezoning proceedings and shall be so redesignated.



 



   (i)   Time limit Does Not Include Moratoria.  The time limit for
property placed in a T Tentative classification which is also the subject of
a Tentative Map shall not include any time during which a development
moratorium, as defined in California Government Code Section 66452.6(b), has
been imposed and is in existence after the effective date of the ordinance
placing  the property in a T Tentative classification, provided that  the
moratorium affects  the property and does not exceed five years.  Provided
further that for property placed in a T Tentative Classification which is
also the subject of a Tentative Map and which requires the expenditure of
$125,000.00 or more to construct, improve, or finance the construction or
improvement of public improvements outside the property boundaries of the
Tentative Map, excluding improvements of public rights-of-way which abut the
boundary of the property to be subdivided and which are reasonably related to
the development of that property, then the T Tentative Classification shall
be extended for the life of the Tentative Map.



 



   (j)   Restoration to Former Zoning.  Except as provided for in
subdivision 2. of this subsection, as to those properties placed in the T
Tentative classification prior to March 26, 1973 and which remain in a T
Tentative classification for more than six years, the City Planning
Commission, the Director or the Director's designee may investigate the
circumstances therefor.  When deemed appropriate by the Commission or upon
the request of the Council, and after due notice to the owner of the property
as shown on the records of the City Engineer or the records of the County
Assessor, the City Planning Commission, the Director or the Director's
designee shall submit a report and recommendation to the Council concerning
the restoration of the property to its former zoning or height district
classification. Where the recommendation is that the property be changed to
its former classification, or when the Council requests that the property be
changed to its former classification, an ordinance accomplishing the change
shall be transmitted with the report and recommendation to the Council. 
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Code to the contrary, no public
hearing need be held nor further notice given as a prerequisite to the
adoption of an ordinance restoring the property to its former
classification.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,595, Eff. 4/10/11.)



 



   (k)   General Plan Consistency.  In the implementation of Paragraph
(i) of this Subdivision, the former zoning or height district classification
may be inconsistent with the current General Plan designation for the
property.  In this case, the property shall be changed to the least intense
zoning or height district classification consistent with the General Plan.



 



   2.   Q Qualified Classification.



 



   (a)   Purpose.  Except where property is being changed to the RA,
RE, RS or R1 Zone, provision may be made in a zoning ordinance that the
property not be utilized for all the uses ordinarily permitted in a
particular zone classification and/or that the development of the site shall
conform to certain specified standards, if the limitations are deemed
necessary to:



 



   (1)   Protect the best interests of and assure a development more
compatible with the surrounding property or neighborhood;



 



   (2)   Secure an appropriate development in harmony with the
objectives of the General Plan; or



 



   (3)   Prevent or mitigate potential adverse environmental effects of
the zone change.



 



   (b)   Q Classification.



 



   (1)   Where limitations are deemed necessary the zoning ordinance
may, instead of immediately and finally changing the zone or height district
on the property, place it in a Q Qualified classification.  Except as
provided for in Paragraphs (f) of (g) of this subdivision, the Q Qualified
classification shall be deemed to be a temporary classification until the
time the proceedings are either terminated or completed as provided in this
section.



 



   (2)   Prior to the issuance of permits for the construction of
buildings or structures authorized by the Qualified enactment, the plans for
them shall be submitted to and approved by the Director as being in full
compliance with all limitations and standards set forth in the ordinance.



 



   (c)   Map Symbol.  The Q classification shall be indicated by the
symbol Q in parentheses preceding the proposed designation; for example,
(Q)C2-1.



 



   (d)   Allowed Uses.  While property remains in a Q Qualified
classification, whether temporary or permanent as provided for in Subdivision
3 of this subsection, it may be used for any of the uses permitted in the
zone applicable to the property prior to its Q Qualified classification,
unless the use or uses are prohibited in the zone classification to which the
property is being changed, or are subject to limitations as are specified in
the Qualified classification to which the property is being changed.  Prior
to the issuance of permits for the construction of buildings or structures
authorized by reason of the Qualified zone enactment, the plans therefor must
be submitted to and approved by the Director of Planning or by his designated
representative as being in full compliance with all limitations and standards
set forth in that ordinance.



 



   (e)   Certificate of Occupancy.  Property shall remain in a
temporary (Q) Qualified classification for the period of time provided in
Paragraph (f) of this subsection or until a Certificate of Occupancy is
issued by the Superintendent of Building for one or more of the uses first
permitted by the Qualified zone ordinance.  The Superintendent of Building
shall notify the Director of the issuance of the Certificate of Occupancy. 
Once the Certificate of Occupancy is issued: (i) the (Q) Qualified
classification shall no longer be considered temporary; (ii) the parentheses
shall be removed from the designation; and (iii) the new zone designation
shall become finally effective and shall be placed on the appropriate City
records with the symbol "Q" being a permanent part of the symbol designation;
for example QR3-1.  All applicable limitations and/or standards within the
Qualified classification ordinance shall thereafter be considered to apply
permanently to the specific uses.  The temporary Qualified classification
and the accompanying conditions that have become permanent and are shown with
brackets shall have the same status as those that have become permanent, but
shown with neither parenthesis nor brackets.  (Amended by Ord. No. 177,103,
Eff. 12/18/05.)



 



   (f)   Time Limit.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,106, Eff. 5/20/12.) 
Except as provided below and in Subsection I., property shall not remain in a
Q Qualified classification for more than six years unless during that time:



 



   (1)   there is substantial physical development of the property to
allow for one or more of the uses for which the Q Qualified classification
was adopted; or



 



   (2)   if no physical development is necessary, then the property is
used for one or more of the purposes for which the Q Qualified classification
was adopted.



 



   EXCEPTION:  Property may remain in a Q Qualified classification for an
additional 60 months if the ordinance creating the classification took effect
between July 15, 2005, and December 31, 2007; an additional 48 months if the
ordinance took effect between January 1, 2008, through December 31, 2008; and
an additional 24 months if the ordinance took effect between January 1, 2009,
and December 31, 2010, provided that the Director makes a written finding
that the prior discretionary approval and the required environmental review
considered significant aspects of the approved project and that the existing
environmental documentation under the California Environmental Quality Act is
adequate for the issuance of the extension.



 



   When these time limitations expire, the Q Qualified classification and
the authority contained therein shall become null and void, the rezoning
proceedings shall be terminated, and the property thereafter may only be
utilized for those purposes permitted prior to the commencement of the
rezoning proceedings.



 



   In addition, the Director may determine that the development has not
been continuously and expeditiously carried on to completion, but that one or
more usable units has been completed and that the partial development will
meet the requirements for the utilization of the (Q) classification.  The
Director may impose conditions on the partial development to meet the intent
of this subdivision.  The Director shall advise the Department of Building
and Safety of his or her decision.  Thereafter, a Certificate of Occupancy
may be issued after compliance with the Director's decision, and the
temporary (Q) classification shall be permanent on that portion of the
property determined by the Director to be appropriate to the completed
portion of the development.  The Qualified classification and the authority
contained therein shall become null and void as to the remainder of the
property.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code to the contrary,
no public hearing need be held nor notice be given before terminating the (Q)
Qualified classification and restricting the property to its previously
permitted uses.



 



   (g)   Non-Conforming Improvements.  In the event that buildings or
structures designed for occupancy by uses which were not permitted prior to
the (Q) Qualified classification are located on property on which the (Q)
Qualified classification is terminated, the buildings or structures shall be
completely removed forthwith by the owner at his or her own expense, unless
their design is altered and they are immediately completed in full compliance
with all applicable regulations for uses permitted prior to the (Q) Qualified
classification.



 



   (h)   Q’s with T’s.  Property may simultaneously be classified
as being in a (Q) or [Q] Qualified classification and T Tentative
classification.  The T designation shall be removed prior to utilization of
the additional uses permitted by the (Q) or [Q] Qualified classification. 
In no event shall there be any change in the time limitations of this section
or any extension of them.



 



   (i)   Time Limit Does Not Include Moratoria.  However, for property
placed in a Q Qualified classification which is also the subject of a
Tentative Map, the six year time period for the Q Qualified Classification
shall not include any time during which a development moratorium, as defined
in California Government Code Section 66452.6(f), has been imposed and is in
existence after the effective date of the ordinance placing the property in a
Q Qualified Classification, provided that the moratorium affects the property
and does not exceed five years. Provided further that for property placed in
a Q Qualified Classification which is also the subject of a Tentative Map and
which requires the expenditure of $125,000.00 or more to construct, improve,
or finance the construction or improvement of public improvements outside the
property boundaries of the Tentative Map, excluding improvements of public
rights-of-way which abut the boundary of the property to be subdivided and
which are reasonably related to the development of that property, then the Q
Qualified classification shall be extended for the life of the Tentative Map,
including any time extensions approved by the Advisory Agency.  For the
purposes of this subsection, a zone change or height district change shall be
deemed a change incident to division of land when the project’s
environmental analysis includes a description of both the change and the
division of land, and the proposed development of the site does not deviate
substantially from the original project description.  In particular, the
proposed development shall be substantially the same regarding density, the
number of dwelling units, the amount of floor area, uses, height and massing
of buildings, amount of grading, and other relevant attributes.



 



   (j)   Q Conditions in the RA, RE, RS and R1 Zones.  (Added by Ord.
No. 174,406, Eff. 2/28/02.)  Notwithstanding Paragraph (a) of this
Subdivision, properties being changed to the RA, RE, RS and R1 zones may be
placed in the “Q” Qualified classification in order to impose conditions
to mitigate adverse environmental effects of the zone change identified in a
Mitigated Negative Declaration or Environmental Impact Report.



 



   3.   Permanent [Q] Qualified Classification.  In consideration of a
proposed change of zone or height district, the Council may determine to
impose a permanent Q Qualified classification rather than a classification
which expires.  The permanent Qualified classification shall be identified
on the Zoning Map by the symbol Q in brackets, preceding the proposed zoning
designation; for example, [Q]M2-1; or, in combination with a T Tentative
classification, [T][Q]C2-2.  There shall be no time limit on removal of the
brackets around the [Q] Qualified designation nor on removal of the T
Tentative designation.  After the conditions of the permanent [Q] Qualified
classification have been fulfilled, the brackets surrounding the Q symbol
shall be removed.  After the conditions of the T Tentative classification
have been fulfilled, the symbol [T] shall be removed from the zone
designation.



 



   4.   D Development Limitations.



 



   (a)   Purpose.  Notwithstanding any provisions of Section 12.21.1
of this Code to the contrary, provisions may be made in an ordinance
establishing or changing any Height District that a building or structure may
be built to a specific maximum height or floor area ratio less than that
ordinarily permitted in the particular Height District classification; or
that buildings may cover only a fixed percentage of the area of the lot; or
that buildings be set back in addition to setbacks otherwise required by this
Code.  These limitations shall be known as D Development limitations.



 



   (b)   Findings.  In establishing D limitations, the Council shall
find that any or all the limitations are necessary:



 



   (1)   to protect the best interests of and assure a development more
compatible with the surrounding property or neighborhood, and



 



   (2)   to secure an appropriate development in harmony with the
objectives of the General Plan, or



 



   (3)   to prevent or mitigate potentially adverse environmental
effects of the Height District establishment or change.



 



   (c)   Map Designation.  The imposition of D Development limitations
shall be indicated by the symbol D following the Height District designated
on the Zone Map; for example, C2-1-L-D, R4-2-D, RD1.5-1-VL-D, etc.).



 



   (d)   Permanence of D Development Limitations.  D Development
limitations shall not be affected by any failure to remove a (T) Tentative
classification or the parentheses of a Q Qualified classification.



 



   H.   Amendments of the T Classification and Clarifications of the Q
Classification or D Limitation.



 



   1.   Application.  A request for an amendment of Council’s
instructions involving the T Classification or a clarification of a Q
Classification or D Limitation set forth in an ordinance pursuant to
Subsections C and G of this section may be filed by one or more of the owners
or lessees of the subject property with the Department on a form accompanied
by information required by the Department and by a fee as provided in Section
19.01.



 



   2.   Guidelines.  The City Planning Commission shall adopt
guidelines for the Director to utilize in considering these requests.  The
City Planning Commission may amend the guidelines from time to time as it
deems appropriate.



 



   3.   Hearing.  Proceedings for an amendment to Council instructions
or a clarification need not be set for hearing.



 



   4.   Director’s Authority.



 



   (a)   Approval of Request.  If the Director decides that the
request complies with the City Planning Commission’s guidelines, then the
Director may approve or conditionally approve a request subject to the
findings below.



 



   (b)   Disapproval of Request.  If the Director decides that the
request does not comply with the City Planning Commission guidelines for
considering requests for amendments or clarifications, the Director shall
deny the request.  The decision of the Director that a request does not
comply with the City Planning Commission guidelines shall be final.



 



   5.   Findings.  The Director, or the City Council on appeal, shall
approve an amendment or clarification if the Director or the City Council
finds that:



 



   (a)   The request is consistent with the City Planning Commission
guidelines; and



 



   (b)   The amendment or clarification is necessary in order to carry
out the intent of the City Council in adopting the T or Q Classification or D
Limitation; and



 



   (c)   The amendment or clarification would have only a minimal
effect on adjacent property and would not result in a significant or
substantial deprivation of the property rights of other property owners.



 



   6.   Notice of Decision.



 



   (a)   Notice.  After making a decision pursuant to this subsection,
the Director or City Clerk, as appropriate, shall notify the applicant in
writing.  Written notice shall also be mailed to the owners of all property
within and outside of the City that is within 300 feet of the exterior
boundaries of the property involved, using for the purpose of notification
the last known name and address of  owners  shown upon the records of the
City Engineer or the records of the County Assessor.  (Amended by Ord. No.
181,595, Eff. 4/10/11.)



 



   (b)   Expanded Notice.



 



   (1)   If all property within the 300-foot radius is under the same
ownership as the property involved in the proceeding, then the owners of all
property which adjoins the ownership, or is separated only by a street,
alley, public right-of-way or other easement, shall also be notified as
provided in this subdivision.



 



   (2)   If these notice provisions will not result in notice being
given to at least 20 different owners of at least 20 different parcels of
property other than the subject property, then the 300-foot radius for
notification shall be increased in increments of 50 feet until the required
number of owners, and parcels of property, are encompassed within the
expanded area.  Notification shall then be given to all property owners
within that area.



 



   7.   Effective Date of Decision.  A decision of the Director
pursuant to this subdivision shall become final and effective upon the close
of the 20 day appeal period, if not appealed.



 



   8.   Appeals of Director’s Decision.  (Amended by Ord. No.
173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)  An applicant or any person aggrieved by a decision
of the Director may appeal that decision to the City Council.  The appeal 
shall be in writing and shall set forth specifically where there is error or
abuse of discretion in the decision by the Director pursuant to this
subdivision.  The appeal shall be filed with the Department of City Planning
and accompanied by a fee as provided in Section 19.01 of this Code.  The
City Council may approve, conditionally approve, or disapprove the appeal if
it finds there is error or abuse of discretion in the determination by the
Director.  If the Council makes this decision, it shall make written
findings pursuant to Subdivision 5 of this subsection.  The decision of the
City Council shall be final.



 



   I.   Changes Incident to Divisions of Land.



 



   1.   Purpose.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)  To
provide for the orderly arrangement of the property concerned into lots.



 



   2.   Council Authority.  In the subdivision of an area, it may be
determined by the Commission that the zones or height districts, as shown on
the zoning map, do not conform with the best subdivision and use of the land.
The Council may, upon the recommendation of the Commission, authorize within
the boundaries of the area being subdivided the appropriate adjustment of
zone or height district boundaries or the reclassification of the area into a
more restrictive zone or height district where the zone or height district is
consistent with the General Plan.  The Council shall have the authority to
make changes without the Commission holding a public hearing on the
adjustment.



 



   3.   Restriction on Commission Authority.  The Commission shall
make no  recommendation to the Council pursuant to Subdivision 4 of this
Subsection except upon written application made by the owner of the land
being subdivided.



 



   4.   Procedure.  Notice of a public hearing on any change of zone
incident to division of land to a less restrictive zone shall be included in
the notice for the division.  The notice shall conform to the procedures for
zone change notification and the subdivision and zone change hearings shall
be held concurrently.  Appeal procedures shall conform to those required for
zone changes as set forth in this section.



 



   J.   F Funded Improvement Classification.



 



   1.   Purpose.  In consideration of a proposed change of zone, the
Council may determine that public necessity, convenience or general welfare
indicate rezoning for an area is desirable, but that street lighting and fire
hydrants in the area are so lacking or inadequate that provision for these
facilities shall be made prior to the more intensive use of the area
contemplated by the zone change.



 



   2.   Improvements.  If the Council determines that provision should
be made for street lighting, fire hydrants, or both, it shall designate the
improvements.  The ordinance changing the zone of the property concerned may
in addition to rezoning the property place it in an F or Funded Improvement
classification pending installation of all designated street lighting and
fire hydrants by the owners of the property, or payment of a pro rata share
of the cost of improvement as estimated by the City Engineer.  Unless
otherwise determined by the Council, the entire area rezoned in each zone
change case shall have its own separate Funded Improvement Account.



 



   3.   Map Symbol.  The F or Funded Improvement classification shall
be indicated by the symbol F in parentheses immediately before the
combination of symbols designation; for example, (F)R3-1.



 



   4.   Issuance of Permits.  While the property remains in an F
Funded Improvement classification, and until the Department of Building and
Safety has received notification from the Board of Public Works that the
required improvements have been installed to the satisfaction of the City
Engineer, or that the pro rata share of the improvement charge has been paid
to the City, or that the improvements are assured by an assessment district,
the property may continue to be used only for the purposes permitted in the
zone applicable to the property prior to its F Funded Improvement
classification.  No permits shall be issued, no buildings or structures
shall be erected or constructed, and no land shall be used for any other
purpose.



 



   5.   Funded Improvement Accounts.



 



   (a)   Establishment.  Unless otherwise determined by the Council,
the Board of Public Works shall establish a separate Funded Improvement
Account for each zone change area placed in the F Funded Improvement
classification.  Each account shall be maintained until the funds are
expended to complete all the designated improvements in that the area, or
until the Board of Public Works determines the account is no longer necessary.



 



   (b)   Unit Charges.  The Board of Public Works shall establish one
or more standard unit charge, based upon front footage, acreage, or other
equitable measurements.  The charges shall be estimated by the City Engineer
to be sufficient to reimburse the City for its cost of installation,
materials, design, surveying, inspection, testing of materials, appurtenant
work, and all other applicable costs.  Unit charges may vary depending on
geographic or other special conditions.  Upon request, the City Engineer
shall advise any property owner of the total charge for the installation of
the required improvements, and the proportionate share of the charges for the
property.  In the event a property owner installs any of the improvements
designated for the property, a proportionate adjustment of the pro rata
improvement charge shall be made.



 



   (c)   Earlier Improvements.  The Board of Public Works may
authorize the earlier installation of certain of the designated improvements
which are more urgently needed than the others when its Funded Improvement
Account contains sufficient funds to cover the cost of the improvements.



 



   (d)   Completion of Improvements.  When 60% of the total estimated
improvement charges have been collected in any Funded Improvement Account,
the Board of Public Works may cause the designated improvements for the area
to be completed either by the City or by contract, using monies from the
revolving fund established by Paragraph (e) below for the remainder of the
costs, if sufficient amounts are available in it.  Upon completion of all
the designated improvements in a zone change area placed in the F Funded
Improvement classification, the Funded Improvement Account for that area
shall be terminated.



 



   (e)   Revolving Fund.  There is hereby established the Funded
Improvement Revolving Fund to be administered by the Board of Public Works,
which shall be used to finance completion of improvements in areas in the F
Funded Improvement classification.  The  Council, after a report from the
Board of Public Works, may appropriate monies to the Fund.  The Board of
Public Works shall periodically report to the Council on the operation of the
Revolving Fund as well as any need for additional funds.  When a Funded
Improvement Account for a rezoned area has been terminated, all remaining pro
rata improvement charges due as a prerequisite to obtaining building permits
shall be paid into the Revolving Fund.



 



   (f)   Removal of F Classification.  Each parcel of property shall
remain in the F Funded Improvement classification until the owner has
installed all designated improvements determined by the City Engineer to
pertain to the property, or has paid the improvement charges, or the
improvements have been completed or guaranteed under assessment proceedings,
and the Board of Public Works has notified the Department of Building and
Safety.  Thereafter, each parcel shall no longer be designated as being
within the classification and the F Funded Improvement designation shall be
removed from the City records.  A copy of the notification shall be
furnished to the Department.



 



   K.   (Deleted by Ord. No. 182,242, Eff. 10/9/12.)



 



   L.   (Deleted by Ord. No. 182,242, Eff. 10/9/12.)



 



   M.   Changes of Zone Relating to Projects Subject to Section
12.24.1.  In connection with a change of zone subject to the provisions of
Section 12.24.1 of this Code, the ordinance changing the zone may provide
that one or more of the uses permitted by that ordinance shall be exempt from
the requirements of this Code.



 



   N.   Changes Incident to Self-Contained Communities.



 



   1.   Agricultural Zones.  Where property is in an A1, A2 or RA
Zone, a proposed plan for the development of a new self-contained community
with a town lot subdivision design may be submitted to the Commission for its
consideration, provided the plan indicates that adequate provision is made
for school and playground sites, municipal facilities, utilities and other
services.



 



   2.   Subdivision Map Required.  If the Commission finds that the
location and plan of the proposed community are tentatively acceptable, it
shall initiate the zone changes which may be necessary for the completion of
the plan.  After holding the public hearing required in connection with the
proposed zone changes, the Commission may approve the plan including the
proposed zone changes, but the approval shall be subject to the filing and
recordation of a subdivision map conforming to the plan.  If the
self-contained community plan and the proposed zone changes are approved by
the Commission, the plan and the proposed zone changes shall be submitted to
the Council for its consideration.  If the Council concurs in the action of
the Commission, the ordinance required to effect the changes shall be
presented to the Council only after a tentative subdivision map has been
submitted to and approved by the Council.



 



   O.   Establishment or Change of H Hillside Areas.



 



   1.   Procedure.  Whenever the public necessity, convenience or
general welfare justify the action, the Council by ordinance may create or
change the boundaries of an H Hillside Area.  The fees to be paid and the
procedure to be followed shall be the same as prescribed in this section for
a change of zone.  However, where the establishment or change of an H
Hillside Area is initiated by the Council or the Commission and consists of a
parcel or parcels of land totaling in excess of 20 acres, publication in a
newspaper of general circulation, designated by the City Clerk for official
advertising in the area involved, not less than 24 days prior to the date of
the public hearing, giving notice of the time, place and purpose of the
hearing shall be sufficient notice of the hearing, and the mailing of
individual notices shall not be required.



 



   2.   Exception.  Where the Commission initiates a change of zone
from the R1-H to the RE15-H zone on property generally described in
Subdivision 3 of this Subsection,  publication in a newspaper of general
circulation, designated by the City Clerk for official advertising in the
area involved, at least ten days prior to the date of the public hearing,
giving notice of the time, place and purpose of the hearing shall be
sufficient notice, and the mailing of individual notices shall not be
required.



 



   3.   Boundaries.  Sunset Boulevard from Pacific Coast Highway to
Western Avenue, Western Avenue and its northerly extension to the common city
boundary line between Los Angeles City and the City of Glendale, westerly on
the City boundary line from the northerly extension of Western Avenue to
Lankershim Boulevard, southerly on Lankershim Boulevard to Ventura Boulevard,
westerly on Ventura Boulevard from Lankershim Boulevard to the westerly City
boundary line, southerly on the westerly City boundary line to Pacific Coast
Highway, and easterly on Pacific Coast Highway to Sunset Boulevard.



 



   P.   Minor Changes to Parking Requirements Incident to Legislative
Actions.  As part of any legislative land use ordinance, the Council may
approve changes to the parking requirements not to exceed 20% of the
requirements otherwise required by the Code.



 



   Q.   Vesting Applications.



 



   1.   Application.  Whenever a provision of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code requires the filing of an application for a zone change, a
vesting zone change may instead be filed, in accordance with these
provisions.  If an applicant does not seek the rights conferred by this
subsection, the filing of a vesting application shall not be required by the
City for the approval of any proposed zone change.



 



   2.   Development Rights.



 



   (a)   The approval of a vesting application shall confer a vested
right to proceed with a development in substantial compliance with the rules,
regulations, ordinances, zones and officially adopted policies of the City of
Los Angeles in force on the date the application is deemed complete, and with
the conditions of approval imposed and specifically enumerated by the
decision maker in its action on the vesting application case.  These rights
shall not include exemption from other applications or approvals that may be
necessary to entitle a project to proceed (i.e., subdivision, parcel map,
zone variance, design review, etc.) and from subsequent changes in the
Building and Safety and Fire regulations contained in Chapters V and IX of
the Los Angeles Municipal Code found necessary by the City Council to protect
the public health and safety and which are applicable on a citywide basis and
policies and standards relating to those regulations or from citywide
programs enacted after the application is deemed complete to implement State
or Federal mandates.



 



   (b)   If the ordinances, policies, or standards described in
Paragraph 2(a) of this section are changed subsequent to the approval or
conditional approval of a vesting application case, the applicant, or his or
her successor or assignee, at any time prior to the expiration of the vesting
application case, may apply, pursuant to Subdivision 4 of this subsection,
for an amendment to the vesting application case to secure a vested right to
proceed with the changed ordinances, policies, or standards.  An application
shall clearly specify the changed ordinances, policies, or standards for
which the amendment is sought.



 



   (c)   Prior to final signoff on a building permit filed pursuant to
a vesting application, the Planning Department shall submit a copy of the
final site plan to the office of the affected council district for
informational purposes only.



 



   3.   Procedures.



 



   (a)   Vesting Zone Change.



 



   (1)   Filing and Processing an Application.  A vesting zone change
shall be filed on the same form and have the same contents, accompanying data
and reports and shall be processed in the same manner as procedures for
applications in Subsection C 3 for a zone change, except as provided here. 
The application shall specify that the case is for a vesting zone change. 
If any rules, regulations, or ordinances in force at the time of filing
require any additional approvals (such as a variance or coastal development
permit), the complete application for these additional approvals shall be
filed prior to or simultaneously with the vesting zone change in order for
the City Planning Department to be able to schedule a concurrent hearing. 
In all vesting zone change cases a site plan and a rendering of the
architectural plan of the building envelope shall be submitted.  The plans
and renderings shall show the proposed project’s height, design, size and
square footage, number of units, the use and location of buildings,
driveways, internal vehicular circulation patterns, loading areas and docks,
location of landscaped areas, walls and fences, pedestrian and vehicular
entrances, location of public rights-of-way and any other information deemed
necessary by the Director of Planning.



 



   (2)   Conditional Approval or Denial.  Notwithstanding Subdivision
2.(a) of this subsection, a vesting zone change may be conditioned or denied
if the City Planning Commission or the City Council determines:  (Amended by
Ord. No. 177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.)



 



   (i)   that the condition is deemed necessary to protect the best
interest of and assure a development more compatible with the surrounding
property or neighborhood; to secure an appropriate development in harmony
with the objectives of the General Plan; to prevent or mitigate potential
adverse environmental affects of the zone change; or that public necessity,
convenience or general welfare require that provisions be made for the
orderly arrangement of the property concerned into lots and/or that
provisions be made for adequate streets, drainage facilities, grading,
sewers, utilities and other public dedications and improvements; or



 



   (ii)   the zone change is denied because it is not in substantial
conformance with the purposes, intent or provisions of the General Plan or is
not in conformance with public necessity, convenience, general welfare and
good zoning practice and the reason for not conforming with the plan.



 



   If the Council does not adopt the Commission’s findings and
recommendations, the Council shall make its own findings.



 



   (3)   Expiration.  The approval or conditional approval of a
vesting zone change shall expire at the end of a six year time period. 
Where a project to be developed under a vesting zone change contains multiple
phases, the vested zoning shall terminate if less than 25 percent of the
total project allowed by the vesting zone change and as described in the
vesting application has not received a certificate of occupancy before the
end of the period of time specified.



 



   4.   Amendment of Vested Project Plans or Amendment of Vested City
Regulations to Comply With Subsequent Regulation Changes.



 



   (a)   One or more of the owners or lessees of the subject property
may file a verified application requesting an amendment of the City
regulations as described in Paragraph 2 (a) of this section vested by a zone
change issued pursuant to this section.  They shall file the application
with the Department of City Planning upon a form designated for this purpose,
and accompany it with a fee as provided in Section 19.01 A of this Code



 



   (b)   The City Council, after a report and recommendation from the
Director of Planning or his or her authorized representative, may amend the
vested building or site plans or add to the set of City regulations to which
the applicant’s project has vested by a zone change issued pursuant to this
section.  The Department’s report shall be made within 40 calendar days of
the date of the request or within any additional time as may be mutually
agreed upon by the Department of City Planning and the applicant.



 



   (c)   The City Council, prior to making a decision pursuant to this
paragraph shall hold a public hearing.  Written notice shall be mailed to
the owners or tenants of all property within and outside of the City that is
within 500 feet of the exterior boundaries of the property involved.



 



   R.   Building Lines.



 



   1.   Purpose.  It is the purpose of this article to provide
regulations for the establishment, change or removal of building lines along
any street or portion of a street in order to provide for the systematic
execution of the General Plan; to obtain a minimum uniform alignment from the
street at which buildings, structures or improvements may be built or
maintained; to preserve the commonly accepted characteristics of residential
districts; to protect and implement the “Highways and Freeways Element of
the General Plan”; to provide sufficient open spaces for public and private
transportation; to facilitate adequate street improvements; to prevent the
spread of major fires and to facilitate the fighting of fires; and to promote
the public peace, health, safety, comfort, convenience, interest and general
welfare.



 



   2.   Procedures for Establishment, Change or Removal of Building
Lines.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)  Except for the
provisions below, the procedures set forth in Subsection C shall be used for
the establishment, change or removal of building lines.



 



   (a)   Initial Decision-Maker.  Area Planning Commissions shall have
the authority to make recommendations on building line ordinances.



 



   (b)   Notice.  Notwithstanding the notice requirements of
Subsection C4, the following notice shall be required for actions on building
lines:



 



   (1)   By Mailing Notices:  A written notice shall be mailed at
least 24 days prior to the date of the hearing to the applicant, to the owner
or owners of the property involved and to the owners of properties abutting
that portion of the street on which the building line is to be established,
changed or removed.  The written notice shall be mailed to the last known
name and address of the owners as shown upon the records of the City Engineer
or the records of the County Assessor; or  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,595,
Eff. 4/10/11.)



 



   (2)   By Posting Notices on the Street Affected:  The Board of
Public Works shall be notified whenever a public hearing on a building line
proceeding is set.  The Board shall cause copies of the notice of the public
hearings to be posted within 20 days after receiving the notification and at
least 24 days prior to the date set for public hearing. The Board shall post
at least three notices, not more than 300 feet apart, in front of each block
or part of a block along the street involved in the building line proceeding.



 



   The posted notice of public hearing shall conform to the following
requirements:



 



   (i)   It shall be at least 10-1/2 inches × 11 inches in size;



 



   (ii)   It shall be titled “Notice of Public Hearing,” and the
title shall also state whether the purpose of the hearing is to establish,
change or remove a building line.  All letters in the title shall be at
least one inch in height;



 



   (iii)   It shall include, in legible characters, the time and place
of the public hearing; and



 



   (iv)   It shall include a diagram or other description of the
building line to be established, changed or removed.



 



   (c)   Public Hearing for Certain Building Line Actions. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section C4, no separate public hearings
will be required for the establishment, change or removal of a building line
when it is incidental to subdivisions or zone changes as specified in
Paragraphs (e) and (f).



 



   (d)   Action on Building Line Change.  The procedures in Subsection
C shall be used for establishment or change to a building line.



 



   (e)   Building Line Incident to Subdivision.  In connection with
the consideration of a tentative subdivision map by the Director of Planning,
he or she may recommend to the Area Planning Commission or the City Planning
Commission, whichever is considering the matter, the establishment, change or
removal of a building line on streets within the subdivision, if he or she
finds it is necessary for the proper development and use of the lots or to
achieve any purpose set forth in Subdivision 1 of this subsection.  The
recommendation shall be in the form of a written report.  Upon the receipt
of the report, the Commission shall advise the subdivider that the proposed
building line matter will be considered at a regular Commission meeting. 
The meeting shall constitute the required public hearing and no further
notice need be given.  If the Commission approves the establishment, change
or removal of a building line, an ordinance in conformity with that
recommendation shall be presented to the Council for adoption concurrently
with its action on the final subdivision tract map.



 



   (f)   Building Line Incident to Zone Change.  (Amended by Ord. No.
173,754, Eff. 3/5/01.)  In connection with its hearing and consideration of
a proposed zone change, the Area Planning Commission or the City Planning
Commission may also consider the establishment, change or removal of a
building line on the property involved or on adjoining property under the
same ownership as the property involved in the zone change proceeding.  If
the Commission finds that it is necessary to establish, change, or remove a
building line in order to give proper effect to the zoning proposed in the
proceeding, or to achieve any purpose set forth in Subdivision 1 of this
subsection, the Commission may act upon the building line matter
simultaneously with the zone change proposal.  Only one notice of public
hearing need be given concerning the proposed zone change and the building
line proceeding and both matters may be considered at the one public
hearing.  If the Commission approves the establishment, change or removal of
a building line, an ordinance in conformity with that recommendation shall be
presented to the City Council for adoption concurrently with the ordinance
involving the proposed zone change.



 



   (g)   Notification to Building and Safety.  The Department of
Building and Safety shall be notified relative to an initial City Council or
Area Planning Commission approval of a building line proceeding, and whenever
the proceeding is terminated by the City Council.



 



   3.   Building Permits Shall Not Be Issued During Proceedings. 
After the approval of a building line proceeding by the Area Planning
Commission or by the Council upon an appeal from a disapproval, and until the
time the ordinance establishing, changing or removing a building line in the
proceedings becomes effective, or until the time the proceedings are
terminated by the City Council, no building permit shall be issued for the
erection of any building, structure or improvement between any proposed
building line and the street line, and any permits so issued shall be void.



 



   4.   Compliance.  After the effective date of any ordinance
establishing a building line, no person shall build or maintain any building,
structure, wall, fence, hedge or other improvement within the space between
the street line and the building line so established, and the Department of
Building and Safety shall refuse to issue any permit for any building,
structure or improvement within that space.



 



   5.   Exceptions - Nonconforming Buildings.



 



   (a)   Permitted Projections.  Any improvements or projection
permitted in a front yard, or in a side yard adjoining a street by Section
12.22C20 of Article II, may extend or be located in the same manner in the
space between an established building line and the adjacent street line. 
Further, a marquee may extend into the space between an established building
line and the adjacent street line a distance of not more than 12 feet from
the face of the building to which it is attached, providing the building be
lawfully devoted to a business use.



 



   (b)   Nonconforming Buildings.  A nonconforming building, structure
or improvement may be maintained except as otherwise provided in Sections
12.23A and 12.23D.



 



   (c)   Subsurface Improvements.  The provisions of this article do
not apply to buildings, structures or improvements located below the natural
or finished grade of a lot whichever is lower.



 



   (d)   Street Vacation.  Any building line existing along a public
street hereafter vacated shall be deemed automatically removed when the City
Council makes its order of vacation unless the order of vacation provides
otherwise.



 



   (e)   Enforcement.  The provisions of Section 12.26 concerning
enforcement of the zoning regulations shall also apply to the enforcement of
the provisions of this article.



 



   S.   Supplemental Use Districts.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,412,
Eff. 1/2/11.)



 



   1.   Purpose.  The purpose of Article 3 of this chapter is to
regulate and restrict the location of certain types of uses whose
requirements are difficult to anticipate and cannot adequately be provided
for in the "Comprehensive Zoning Plan".  These uses, the boundaries of the
districts where they are permitted, the limitations governing their
operations, and the procedure for the establishment of new districts, are
provided for in Article 3 of this chapter.  Except for the "Supplemental
Uses" permitted by Article 3 of this chapter, all property within the
districts hereby established is subject to the provisions of the
"Comprehensive Zoning Plan".



 



   2.   Districts.  (Amended by Ord. No. 184,827, Eff. 3/24/17.)  In
order to carry out the provisions of this article, the following districts
are established:



 



   "O"      Oil Drilling District



   "S"      Animal Slaughtering District



   "G"      Surface Mining District



   "RPD"      Residential Planning Development District



   "K"      Equinekeeping District



   "CA"      Commercial and Artcraft District



   "POD"      Pedestrian Oriented District



   "CDO"      Community Design Overlay District



   "MU"      Mixed Use District



   "FH"      Fence Height District



   "SN"      Sign District



   "RFA"      Residential Floor Area District



   "NSO"      Neighborhood Stabilization Overlay District



   "CPIO"   Community Plan Implementation Overlay District



   "HS"      Hillside Standards Overlay District



   "MPR"      Modified Parking Requirement District



   "RIO"      River Improvement Overlay District



   "CUGU"   Clean Up Green Up Overlay District
   "RG"      Rear Detached Garage District



   "HCR"      Hillside Construction Regulation District



 



   These districts and their boundaries are shown on portions of the
"Zoning Map" as provided for in Section 12.04 and made a part thereof by a
combination of the zone and district symbols.  This map and the notations,
references and other information shown on it which pertain to the boundaries
of these districts are made a part of this article as if fully described
here.  Reference is hereby made to those maps, notations, references and
other information for full particulars.



 



   3.   Establishment of Districts.



 



   (a)   Requirements.  The procedure for initiation or an application
to establish, change the boundaries of or repeal a supplemental use district
shall be as set forth in this section with the following additional
requirements.



 



   (b)   Additional Requirements for Application.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 184,246, Eff. 6/4/16.)  Except for CPIO Districts, which may not be
established through the application procedure, one or more of the owners or
lessees of property within the boundaries of the proposed district may submit
a verified application for the establishment of a district. An application
for the establishment of a Commercial and Artcraft District, a Pedestrian
Oriented District, an Equinekeeping District, a Community Design Overlay
District, a Mixed Use District, a Sign District, a Residential Floor Area
District, a Neighborhood Stabilization Overlay District, a Hillside Standards
Overlay District, a Modified Parking Requirement District, a River
Improvement Overlay District, or a Clean Up Green Up Overlay District shall
contain the signatures of at least 75 percent of the owners or lessees of
property within the proposed district. An application for the establishment
of a Fence Height District shall contain the signatures of at least 50
percent of the owners or lessees of property within the proposed district. An
application shall be accompanied by any information deemed necessary by the
Department.



 



   If establishment of a district is initiated by the City Council, City
Planning Commission or Director of Planning, the signatures of the property
owners or lessees shall not be required.



 



   (c)   Action on the Initiation or Application.



 



   (1)   Authority.  Notwithstanding the provisions of Subsection C.,
only the City Planning Commission is authorized to make recommendations
regarding approval or disapproval in whole or in part on an application for
or the initiation of the establishment of a supplemental use district to the
Council.



 



   (2)   Notice.  Notice of the public hearing shall also be given to
the Bureau of Engineering and Department of Transportation for an application
or initiation to establish a supplemental use district.



 



   (3)   Time for Commission to Act on Application.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 184,246, Eff. 6/4/16.)  The City Planning Commission shall act on an
application to establish an "O", "S", "G", "K", "CA", "POD", "CDO", "MU",
"FH", "SN", "RFA", "NSO", "CPIO", "HS", "MPR", "RIO", or "CUGU" District
within 75 days from the date of the filing of the application.  The City
Planning Commission shall act on an application to establish an "RPD"
District within 75 days from receipt of the Subdivision Committee report and
recommendation.  The City Planning Commission shall act on proceedings
initiated by the Council within 75 days of receipt of that action from the
Council, or within the time that the Council may otherwise specify.



 



   (4)   Disapproval - Appeal to Council.  If the City Planning
Commission recommends disapproval of an application, in whole or in part, any
owner or lessee of property included in a proposed district may appeal that
decision to the Council by filing an appeal with the City Planning Commission
pursuant to the procedure set forth in Subsection D. of this section.



 



   4.   Administrative Clearance - Director Authority for Sign Off.



 



   (a)   Administrative Clearance.  An Administrative Clearance is
defined as a ministerial approval for Projects that comply with all
applicable Supplemental Use District regulations.  The term "Project" shall
be defined in any Supplemental Use District that seeks to invoke this
Administrative Clearance procedure.



 



   (b)   Application, Form and Contents.  To apply for an
Administrative Clearance, an applicant shall file an application with the
Department of City Planning, on a form provided by the Department, and
include all information required by the instructions on the application and
any additional submission requirements.



 



   (c)   Procedures.  (Amended by Ord. No. 184,246, Eff. 6/4/16.)  An
applicant for a Project that complies with the provisions of an adopted
Commercial and Aircraft District, Pedestrian Oriented District, Community
Design Overlay District, Mixed Use District, Community Plan Implementation
Overlay District, River Improvement Overlay District, or Clean Up Green Up
Overlay District shall submit plans to the Director for an Administrative
Clearance. The Director or his/her designee shall review the Project for
compliance with the applicable Supplemental Use District development
regulations. A Project that does not qualify for Administrative Clearance
shall follow the procedures set forth in the applicable Supplemental Use
District.



 



 



SEC. 12.33.  PARK FEES AND LAND DEDICATION.



   (Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 184,505, Eff. 1/11/17.)



 



   A.   Purpose.  New residential dwelling units increase demand on
existing park and recreational facilities and create the need for additional
facilities.  The purpose of this Section is to enable the acquisition of
land and the collection of fees to be used for the purpose of developing new
or rehabilitating existing recreational facilities in order to create a
healthy and sustainable city.



 



   B.   Types of Fees.  The type and amount of park and recreation
impact fee associated with a project depends on the type of project being
developed.  Subdivision projects consisting of more than 50 residential
units are subject to a Quimby in-lieu fee.  All other residential projects
are subject to a park mitigation fee.  Collectively, these fees are referred
to in this Code as park fees.



 



   C.   Subject Properties.  All new residential dwelling units and
joint living and work quarters shall be required to dedicate land, pay a fee
or provide a combination of land dedication and fee payment for the purpose
of acquiring, expanding and improving park and recreational facilities for
new residents.  For the purposes of this subsection, dwelling units,
Accessory Dwelling Units, Junior Accessory Dwelling Units, and joint living
and work quarters shall be referred to as "dwelling units" or "residential
dwelling units".  (Amended by Ord. No. 186,481, Eff. 12/19/19.)



 



   1.   Residential Subdivision Projects That Contain More Than 50
Dwelling Units.  A subdivision containing more than 50 dwelling units shall
be required to participate in an early consultation with the Department of
Recreation and Parks and Department of City Planning pursuant to Subsection
D. and may be required to dedicate land, make park improvements, pay a park
fee or provide a combination of land dedication and park fee payment.



 



   2.   All Other Residential Projects.  For residential subdivision
projects containing 50 or fewer dwelling units or for non-subdivision
residential projects that are seeking a building permit for a project
application that contains any number of net new dwelling units, the project
shall pay a park fee pursuant to Subsection E.  Applicants may choose to
dedicate land or new park and recreational facilities, and/or improve
existing park and recreational facilities in lieu of payment of a park fee.



 



   3.   Exemptions.  The following types of development shall not be
required to pay a park fee:



 



   (a)   Alterations, renovations or expansion of an existing
residential building or structure where no additional dwelling units are
created.



 



   (b)   Replacement of existing dwelling units on the same lot
resulting in no net increase of residential dwelling units.



 



   (c)   The replacement of a destroyed or partially destroyed or
damaged building or structure where no additional dwelling units are created.



 



   (d)   Affordable housing pursuant to Subsection G. of this Section.



 



   (e)   Accessory Dwelling Units and Junior Accessory Dwelling
Units.  (Amended by Ord. No. 186,481, Eff. 12/19/19.)



 



   (f)   Non-residential development.



 



   D.   Residential Subdivision Projects That Contain More Than 50
Dwelling Units.



 



   1.   Early Consultation.  Applicants shall meet with the Department
of Recreation and Parks and Department of City Planning staff in advance of
submitting a tract map application for a project of more than 50 units.  The
purpose of this early consultation is to discuss whether the City requires
land dedication for the project and/or to discuss credits available to the
applicant, if any.  The Department of Recreation and Parks shall provide
written verification of the consultation to the project applicant within ten
(10) business days of the meeting. Written verification of this consultation
shall be required before the Department of City Planning accepts an
application for a tentative tract map.



 



   2.   Formula for Park Land Dedication.



 



   (a)   The Department of Recreation and Parks shall calculate the
amount of land to be dedicated by determining the number of non-exempt (per
Section 12.33 C.3.) net new dwelling units in the proposed project and
multiply that number by the average number of people per occupied dwelling
unit and multiplying that by the park service factor:



 



         LD = (DU x P) x F
            LD:   Land to be dedicated in acres.
            DU:   Total number of new market-rate dwelling
units.
            P:   Average number of people per occupied
dwelling unit as determined by the most recent version of the U.S. Census for
the City of Los Angeles.
            F:   Park service factor, as indicated by the
Department of Recreation and Parks rate and fee schedule. 



 



   (b)   Any land dedication for park and recreation purposes shall not
be deducted from a site's gross lot area for the purposes of calculating
project density, lot area, buildable area or floor area ratio.



 



   (c)   If after recording the final map there is an increase in the
number of dwelling units to be built or a change in the number and/or type of
dwelling units designated which increases the number of persons served by the
subdivision, the project applicant shall be required to dedicate additional
land and/or pay additional fees, as determined by the Department of
Recreation and Parks and the City Planning Department.



 



   3.   Park Land Dedication Radius.  Any land dedication for park and
recreation purposes shall be located within a certain radius from the project
site, as specified below:



 



   (a)   Neighborhood Park:  within a 2-mile distance



 



   (b)   Community Park:  within a 5-mile distance



 



   (c)   Regional Park:  within a 10-mile distance



 



   4.   Review of Land Dedication.



 



   (a)   Upon receiving the project application for the tentative tract
map, the Department of City Planning shall transmit the project application
with land dedication to the Department of Recreation and Parks.



 



   (b)   After receipt of the project application, the Department of
Recreation and Parks shall determine whether the land dedication proposal
complies with the Department of Recreation and Park's existing park and
recreation standards and requirements.



 



   (c)   If the Department of Recreation and Parks determines that the
land dedication proposal meets the standards and requirements of the
department, the General Manager of the Department of Recreation and Parks
shall prepare a report to the Board of Recreation and Parks Commissioners
regarding the proposed dedication.  The Board of Recreation and Parks
Commissioners may accept or decline the land dedication.



 



   5.   Payment of Park Fee.  If the project will not be dedicating
land for park and recreational purposes, the project applicant shall pay a
park fee pursuant to Subsection E. of this section.



 



   E.   Park Fees for Non-Subdivision Residential Projects, Residential
Subdivisions With 50 Units or Fewer, or Residential Subdivisions With More
Than 50 Units That Are Not Dedicating Land.



 



   1.   Fees and Fee Schedule.  The park fee amount depends on the
type of project.  The Department of Recreation and Parks shall collect these
fees pursuant to Section 19.17 and the Department of Recreation and Parks
rate and fee schedule.



 



   2.   Fee Calculation.  The Department of Recreation and Parks shall
calculate the amount of the park fee due for each residential development
project by determining the number of new non-exempt (pursuant to Section
12.33 C.3.) dwelling units in the proposed project and multiplying the number
of units by the park fee amount per dwelling unit according to the following
formula:



 



      Project Park Fee = DU x PRF
         DU:   Total number of new, non-exempt (per Section 12.33
C.3.) dwelling units.
         PRF:   Park Fee per unit.



 



   3.   Fee Expenditure Radius.  Recreational sites and facilities
shall be located within a certain radius from the project site, as specified
below:



 



   (a)   Neighborhood park:  within a 2-mile distance.



 



   (b)   Community park:  within a 5-mile distance.



 



   (c)   Regional park:  within a 10-mile distance.



 



   4.   Phase-in Period. The park fee shall be phased in as described
in Section 19.17 of this Code.



 



   5.   Indexing.  Any fee imposed by this Section shall be adjusted
on July 1st of each year by a percentage equal to a weighted average of the
annual percentage change in:  (1) the Construction Cost Index for Los
Angeles, as published by Engineering News Record, or its successor
publication, for the 12 month period between March in the year in which the
adjustment is made and the month of March in the immediately preceding year;
and (2) the annual percentage change in the Median Home Sales Price for the
City of Los Angeles, as published by Dataquick News, or its successor
publication, for the 12-month period between March in the year in which the
adjustment is made and the month of March in the immediately preceding year.



 



   6.   Fee Payment Timing.



 



   (a)   Residential Subdivision Projects.  The park fee for
residential subdivisions shall be calculated and collected prior to final
subdivision map approval.



 



   (b)   Residential Non-Subdivision Projects.  For other residential
development projects, the park fee shall be calculated and collected prior to
the issuance of the Certificate of Occupancy.



 



   F.   Park Fee as Additional Requirement.  The park fee enacted by
this Section is a fee imposed on residential development projects reflecting
each project's proportionate share of the cost of providing park land and
improvements necessary to meet the needs created by each respective
development.  As such, the park fee is additional and supplemental to, and
not in substitution of, on-site open space requirements required by the
City's Municipal Code, specific plan(s), or any other planning document, such
as those included in Section 12.21.



 



   G.   Affordable Housing Exemption.



 



   1.   Notwithstanding any other provision contained in this section,
new residential dwelling units which are rented or sold to persons or
households of very-low, low or moderate income shall receive an affordable
housing exemption from the park fee and land dedication requirement.



 



   (a)   An affordable housing unit shall receive an exemption from the
requirement for dedication of land for park and recreational purposes and/or
payment of the park fee if the affordable housing unit is affordable to a
household at or below 120% of AMI.



 



   (b)   In projects with a mix of market-rate and affordable housing
units, only the affordable housing units shall receive this exemption.



 



   2.   For any affordable housing unit qualifying for an exemption, a
covenant acceptable to the Los Angeles Housing and Community Investment
Department shall be recorded with the Los Angeles County Recorder,
guaranteeing that the affordability criteria will be observed for at least 55
years from the issuance of the Certificate of Occupancy or a longer period of
time if required by the construction or mortgage financing assistance
program, mortgage assistance program, or rental subsidy program.



 



   3.   The Los Angeles Housing and Community Investment Department
shall evaluate the project application to ensure it meets the above
requirements and shall advise the Department of Recreation and Parks and the
Department of City Planning about whether the project meets those
requirements.



 



   4.   Should any qualifying affordable housing unit cease to operate
as a qualifying affordable housing unit before the 55-year period has
expired, then the parks fee for each said unit shall be paid to the City at
the then current rate.



 



   H.   Credits.



 



   1.   Public Land Dedication or Improvement to Dedicated Land.



 



   (a)   Public Land Dedication.  In lieu of paying the park fee, land
may be dedicated to the City of Los Angeles for public park and recreational
purposes, at the City's option.  This may be with or without recreational
facility improvements.  The amount of land to be dedicated shall be
determined pursuant to one of the following formulas, and credit shall be
granted, square foot for square foot, for any land dedicated to the City:



 



         Subdivision Projects:
         LD = (DU x P) x F1
            LD:   Land to be dedicated in acres.
            DU:   Total number of net new, non-exempt (per
Section 12.33 C.3.) dwelling units.
            P:   Average number of people per occupied
dwelling unit as determined by the most recent version of the U.S. Census for
the City of Los Angeles.
            F1:   Park service factor for subdivision
projects, as indicated by the Department of Recreation and Parks rate and fee
schedule.



 



         Non-Subdivision Projects:
         LD = (DU x P) x F2
            LD:   Land to be dedicated in acres.
            DU:   Total number of net new, non-exempt (per
Section 12.33 C.3.) dwelling units.
            P:   Average number of people per occupied
dwelling unit as determined by the most recent version of the U.S. Census for
the City of Los Angeles.
            F2:   Park service factor for non-subdivision
projects, as indicated by the Department of Recreation and Parks rate and fee
schedule.



 



   (b)   Improvement to Dedicated Land.  In lieu of paying the park
fee or dedicating land, the City may permit improvements to be made to land
being dedicated as a City park or recreational facility.



 



   (c)   The total amount of credits shall not exceed 100 percent of
the calculated requirement for the park fee or land dedication.



 



   (d)   Credit shall be granted for the property dedicated pursuant to
this Section, dollar for dollar, in satisfaction of any park fee required to
be paid.  The cost and subsequent credit should bear a reasonable
relationship to an independent assessment of the construction cost for the
facility, such as the estimates provided by RSMeans Building Construction
Cost Data or similar measure.  Credits may be awarded for on-site or
off-site land dedication and/or park improvements.



 



   (e)   The Department of Recreation and Parks shall determine whether
the proposal complies with the department's park and recreational standards
and requirements.  If the department determines the proposal meets the
department's standards and requirements, the General Manager of the
Department of Recreation and Parks shall prepare a report to the Board of
Recreation and Parks Commissioners regarding the proposed dedication or
improvement.  The Board of Recreation and Parks Commissioners may accept or
decline the land dedication, new park and recreational facility, or
improvement to existing park and facilities.



 



   (f)   If the dedication and/or improvement is accepted by the Board
of Recreation and Parks Commissioners in lieu of the park fee or land
dedication, or any portion thereof, the City shall reduce or waive the fee,
or land dedication, or any portion thereof, upon dedication of the property
and/or guarantee of the improvement.  The guarantee of the improvement shall
be to the satisfaction of the Department of Recreation and Parks and shall be
by a deposit with the Department of Recreation and Parks of an irrevocable
deposit instrument issued by a bank, savings and loan association or other
depository whose deposits are insured by an instrumentality of the federal
government.  The deposit must be fully insured by such instrumentality. 
The deposit instrument must be in a form that permits collection by the City
of Los Angeles at maturity without further consent of any other party.



 



   2.   Privately Owned Park and Recreational Facilities.  Where
facilities for park and recreational purposes are provided in a proposed
residential development and such facilities will be privately owned and
maintained by the future owners of the development, the areas occupied by
such facilities shall be partially credited against the requirement of
dedication of land for park and recreational purposes of the payment of a
park fee thereof, provided that the following standards are met to the
satisfaction of the Department of Recreation and Parks:  (1) that each
facility is available for use by all the residents of the residential
development; and (2) that the area and the facilities satisfy the recreation
and park needs of the residential development so as to reduce the need for
public recreation and park facilities to serve the project residents.



 



   (a)   The amount of credits for non-publicly accessible park and
recreational facilities shall not exceed 35 percent of the calculated
requirement for the park and recreation impact fee or land dedication. 
Credits may be awarded for on-site or off-site private facilities.



 



   (b)   The amount of credits for publicly accessible, privately
maintained park and recreational facilities shall not exceed 100 percent of
the calculated requirement for the park and recreation impact fee or land
dedication.  Credits may be awarded for on-site or off-site private
facilities.



 



   (c)   Private park and recreational facilities shall include a
variety of active and passive amenities, as determined by the Department of
Recreation and Parks.



 



   (d)   Credit shall be granted, dollar for dollar, for any
recreational and park impact fees required to be paid for the property
pursuant to this Section, as determined by the Department of Recreation and
Parks.  The cost and subsequent credit should bear a reasonable relationship
to an independent assessment of the construction cost for the facility, such
as the estimates provided by RSMeans Building Construction Cost Data or
similar.



 



   (e)   Credits shall not be given for the following:



 



   (1)   Yards, court areas, setbacks and other open space areas
required to be maintained by the City's Municipal Code, specific plan or any
other planning document.



 



   (2)   Common open space and/or private open space required by the
City's Municipal Code, specific plan(s), or any other planning document, such
as those included in Section 12.21.



 



   (f)   The granting of credits shall also be subject to the following:



 



   (1)   The private ownership and maintenance of the facilities shall
be adequately provided for by written agreements; and



 



   (2)   The use of the private facilities, whether publicly or
non-publicly accessible, is restricted for park and recreational purposes by
recorded covenants acceptable to the Department of Recreation and Parks which
run with the land and which cannot be defeated or eliminated without the
consent of the City Council; and



 



   (3)   The proposed facilities are reasonably adaptable for use for
park and recreational purposes, taking into consideration such factors as
size, shape, topography, geology, access and location of the private open
space land; and



 



   (4)   The proposed non-public facilities are available for use by
all the residents of the proposed residential development; and



 



   (5)   Any proposed publicly-accessible, privately-maintained park
and recreational facilities are accessible for use by the general public with
no discrimination between residents and non-residents, are open at hours
comparable to those of City parks and facilities, and have appropriate
signage indicating that the space is public; and



 



   (6)   The facilities are in substantial accordance with, and meet
the policies and standards for, the development of park and recreational
facilities.



 



   3.   Dwelling Unit Construction Tax Credit.  A credit shall be
allowed whenever a dwelling unit construction tax previously has been paid
pursuant to Section 21.10.3 of the Municipal Code for dwelling units
constructed on land for which a fee is required to be paid in accordance with
the provisions of this Section.  Said credit shall be equal to the amount of
the tax previously paid, but shall not exceed the amount of any fee required
to be paid under the provisions of this Section.



 



   4.   Credit Request Timing.  The project applicant shall submit any
requests for credit, and the Department of Recreation and Parks may only
approve such requests, prior to the approval of the Final Map or prior to the
date of final inspection, or the date of the Certificate of Occupancy,
whichever is earliest and applicable, and prior to the dedication of any land
or payment of any park fee.



 



   I.   Park Fee Account and Accounting.



 



   1.   Park Fee Account.  The City of Los Angeles establishes a
separate park and recreation fee trust fund account (hereinafter "account")
to which any park fee collected by the City shall be posted.  The funds of
the account shall not be commingled with any other funds or revenues of the
City.  Any interest accrued by the account shall be used solely for the
purposes of park and recreational facility acquisition, expansion and
improvement.



 



   2.   Park Fee Accounting.  Within 180 days after the last day of
each fiscal year, the Department of Recreation and Parks shall report to the
Board of Commissioners of Recreation and Parks on the amount of the fee
income (including interest income), expenditures, status of the trust fund
account, and intrafund transfers.  The Department of Recreation and Parks
shall also report on each of the park and recreational facilities on which
fees were committed in the last fiscal year and the approximate date by which
the construction of the park and recreational facilities will commence.  The
City shall maintain accounts and prepare reports in accordance with
California Government Code Section 66001 or successor section.



 



   3.   Refund of Fees Under the Government Code.



 



   (a)   Park fees collected pursuant to this section shall be
committed by the City within five years of receipt of payment for a
residential development project to serve or benefit residents of the project
for which the fees were collected.



 



   (b)   If the fees are not committed as specified in this section,
Quimby fees shall be refunded in accordance with California Government Code
Section 66477 or successor section.  All other park fees shall be refunded
in accordance with California Government Code Section 66001 or successor
section.



 



   4.   Other Refunds.  In the event that an applicant requests a
refund for reasons not set forth in Government Code Sections 66001 or 66477,
or their successor sections, if any, the applicant shall submit a claim for a
refund with the Department of Recreation and Parks.  Upon the department's
determination, the fee payer may receive a refund, without interest, of the
fees paid pursuant to this section; however, the portion of any fee revenue
received by the City as reimbursement of its costs in administering the
provisions of this section shall not be refunded.  The fee payer shall
submit an application for a refund to the City within one year of payment. 
Failure to timely submit the required application for refund shall constitute
an absolute waiver of any right to the refund.




   J.   Use of Park Fees or Lands Dedicated Pursuant to this Section.



 



   1.   The dedicated lands or park fees collected pursuant to this
section shall be used for the acquisition, improvement and expansion of
public parks and recreational facilities.  The fees shall be committed and
expended in accordance with the provisions and procedures established in this
section.  The park fee may be used to pay the principal sum and interest and
other finance costs on bonds, notes or other obligations issued by, or on
behalf of, the City to finance such park and recreational facility
improvements; and any administrative costs incurred by the City in accordance
with this section.



 



   2.   Interest accrued on Quimby in-lieu fees collected pursuant to
this section may be applied outside the project development for which the
original fees were collected, provided that the Department of Recreation and
Parks holds a public hearing prior to committing the interest, and uses the
interest to develop new or rehabilitate existing neighborhood or community
parks or recreational facilities within the City.  All such public parks and
recreational facilities shall comply with the principles and standards set
forth in the General Plan.



 



   3.   All such public parks and recreational facilities shall comply
with the principles and standards set forth in the General Plan.



 



   4.   The park or recreational facilities acquired, improved or
expanded shall be publicly accessible and serve or benefit the project that
dedicated the land or paid the fees.



 



   K.   Effective Date.



 



   1.   This ordinance shall take effect on the 60th day following its
adoption.



 



   2.   Any park fee paid prior to the effective date of this ordinance
shall not be recalculated pursuant to the provisions of this ordinance.



 



   3.   Any project that would otherwise be subject to a park fee
pursuant to this section but has acquired vested rights under Section 12.26
A.3. of this Code prior to the effective date of this ordinance, and/or has
an approved vesting tentative map pursuant to Section 17.15, the application
for which has been deemed complete prior to the effective date of this
ordinance, shall not be subject to a park fee.



 



   4.   Any Accessory Dwelling Unit or Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit
project where the park fee has not yet been paid and a Certificate of
Occupancy has not been issued by the Department of Building and Safety prior
to the effective date of this ordinance shall not be subject to a park fee. 
(Added by Ord. No. 186,481, Eff. 12/19/19.)



 



   L.   Severability.  If any provision of this ordinance is found to
be unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent
jurisdiction, that invalidity shall not affect the remaining provisions of
this ordinance, which can be implemented without the invalid provisions and,
to this end, the provisions of this ordinance are declared to be severable. 
The City Council hereby declares that it would have adopted each and every
provision and portion thereof not declared invalid or unconstitutional,
without regard to whether any portion of the ordinance would subsequently be
declared invalid or unconstitutional.



 



 



SEC. 12.34.  APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.



 



   The  provisions of this chapter shall apply to all buildings,
structures or land owned, operated or controlled by any person, Corporation
or to the extent permitted by law, governmental agency.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 142,870, Eff. 3/9/72.)



 



 



SEC. 12.35.  ZONING OF ANNEXED OR UNZONED AREAS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)



 



   All land or territory annexed to the City after the effective date of
this section shall be immediately classified in the R1 Zone and in Height
District No. 1 (R1-1) unless the Council specifically determines otherwise by
ordinance.  The Council may establish specific zoning by ordinance for land
or territory to be annexed.  The zoning ordinance may be adopted
concurrently with the annexation.  Unless the specific zoning is established
by ordinance, the Zoning Map shall be amended to indicate the land or
territory annexed as R1-1 without additional proceedings.



 



   Any land or territory in the City which is not indicated on the Zoning
Map as being in any zone shall be construed as being classified in the same
zone as that existing on the side of the street opposite the subject land or
territory, and the Zoning Map is hereby amended to indicate that zone without
additional procedure.



 



   In those portions of the City where height districts have been
established, any land or territory which is not indicated on the Zoning Map
as being in any height district shall be construed as being classified in the
same height district as that existing on the side of the street opposite the
subject land or territory, and the Zoning Map is hereby amended to indicate
that height district without additional procedure.



 



   Where uncertainty exists as to the zone or height district to be
indicated on the map, the zone or height district shall be determined by the
City Planning Commission by written decision.



 



 



SEC. 12.36.  PROJECTS REQUIRING MULTIPLE APPROVALS.  (CHARTER § 564).



   (Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 182,106, Eff. 5/20/12.)



 



   A.   Definitions.  The following definitions shall apply to this
Section:



 



   Legislative Approval.  Any approval that requires an action by the
City Council, such as those as set forth in Sections 11.5.6, 11.5.7 G.,
12.20.3 F., and 12.32 of this Code.



 



   Quasi-judicial Approval.  Any approval for which the initial decision
becomes final unless appealed, such as those as set forth in Sections 11.5.7
C. - F., H., 12.20.2, 12.20.2.1, 12.20.3 I. - L., 12.21 A.2., 12.21 G.3.,
12.22 A.25., 12.24, 12.24.1, 12.26 K., 12.27, 12.28, 12.30 H., 12.30 J.,
12.32 H., 13.08 E., 14.00 B., 16.05, 16.50, and Article 8 of this Code.



 



   Subdivision Approval.  Any approval under the Division of Land
Regulations set forth in Article 7 of this Code.



 



   B.   Filing Requirement.  If an applicant files for a project that
requires multiple Legislative and/or Quasi-judicial Approvals, then the
procedures set forth in this section shall govern.  Applicants shall file
applications at the same time for all approvals reasonably related and
necessary to complete the project.  The procedures and time limits set forth
in this Section shall only apply to multiple applications filed concurrently,
except that, prior to a public hearing, the Director may require an applicant
to amend an application for a project requiring multiple approvals to ensure
that all relevant approvals are reviewed concurrently.



 



   C.   Decision-makers.  Notwithstanding any provision of this Code
to the contrary, the following shall apply for projects requiring multiple
approvals.



 



   1.   City Planning Commission.  If a project requires any approval
or recommendation separately decided by an Area Planning Commission, the
Zoning Administrator, and/or the Director, as the initial decision-maker, and
also requires any approval or recommendation by the City Planning Commission
as the initial decision-maker, then the City Planning Commission shall have
initial decision-making authority for all of the approvals and/or
recommendations.



 



   (a)   Procedures.  If all of the applications are for
Quasi-judicial Approvals, then the procedures for consideration and appeal of
all the applications shall be those set forth in Section 12.24 D. through Q.
of this Code.  However, if any Legislative Approval is included, then the
procedures for consideration and appeal of all the applications shall be
those set forth in Section 12.32 B. through D. of this Code.



 



   (b)   Appellate Body.  The City Council shall decide all appeals of
the City Planning Commission's decisions or recommendations as the initial
decision-maker on projects requiring multiple approvals.



 



   2.   Area Planning Commission.  If a project requires an approval
separately decided by the Zoning Administrator and/or the Director, as the
initial decision-maker, and also requires any approval or recommendation by
an Area Planning Commission as the initial decision-maker, then the Area
Planning Commission where the project is located shall have initial
decision-making authority for all of the approvals and recommendations.



 



   (a)   Procedures.  If all of the applications are for
Quasi-judicial Approvals, then the procedures for consideration and appeal of
all the applications shall be those set forth in Section 12.24 D. through Q.
of this Code.  If, however, any Legislative Approval is included, then the
procedures for consideration and appeal of all the approvals shall be those
set forth in Section 12.32 B. through D. of this Code.



 



   (b)   Appellate Body.  The City Council shall decide all appeals of
the Area Planning Commission's decisions or recommendations as initial
decision-maker for projects requiring multiple approvals.



 



   3.   Zoning Administrator.  If a project requires approvals
separately decided by the Zoning Administrator and the Director, as the
initial decision-maker, then the Zoning Administrator shall have initial
decision-making authority for all of the approvals.



 



   (a)   Procedures.  The procedures for consideration and appeal of
all related applications for Quasi-Judicial Approvals of the Zoning
Administrator as initial decision-maker shall be those set forth in Section
12.24 D. through Q. of this Code.



 



   (b)   Appellate Body.  The Area Planning Commission where the
project is located shall decide all appeals of decisions of the Zoning
Administrator as initial decision-maker on projects requiring multiple
approvals.  If, however, regulations within Chapter I of this Code require
any of the approvals to be heard by the City Planning Commission on appeal,
the City Planning Commission shall decide all appeals of decisions of the
Zoning Administrator as initial decision-maker.



 



   4.   Director of Planning.  If a project requires multiple
approvals decided by the Director as the initial decision maker, the
following shall apply.



 



   (a)   Procedures.  The procedures for consideration and appeal of
all related applications for Quasi-Judicial Approvals of the Director as
initial decision-maker shall be those set forth in Section 16.05 G. through
H. of this Code.



 



   (b)   Appellate Body.  The Area Planning Commission where the
project is located shall decide all appeals of decisions of the Director as
initial decision-maker on projects requiring multiple approvals.  If,
however, regulations within Chapter I of this Code require any of the
approvals to be heard by the City Planning Commission on appeal, the City
Planning Commission shall decide all appeals of decisions of the Director as
initial decision-maker.



 



   5.   Advisory Agency.  If a project requiring multiple approvals
also requires a Subdivision Approval by the Advisory Agency, that Subdivision
Approval and any appeals shall be decided and governed by the rules set forth
in Article 7 of Chapter 1 of this Code.  Hearings for and consideration of
appeals of Subdivision Approvals by the Advisory Agency shall be scheduled
for the same time as any hearing and decision by the Area Planning Commission
or City Planning Commission, whichever has jurisdiction over the other
approvals.  Any time limit within which the Area Planning Commission or City
Planning Commission must act on the applications before it shall be
automatically extended as necessary to allow the Area Planning Commission or
City Planning Commission to hear and decide appeals of Subdivision Approvals
at the same time as it serves as the initial decision maker for the other
approvals.



 



   D.   Findings.  When acting on multiple applications for a project,
the initial decision-maker or appellate body shall separately make all
required findings for each application.  When appropriate, the initial
decision-maker or appellate body may make findings by reference to findings
made for another application involving the same project.



 



   E.   No New Appeal Rights.  This section does not create any
additional appeal or level of appeal in connection with any land use
approval.  This section also does not limit or expand who may file an appeal
as identified in each discretionary land use application process.



 



   F.   Extension Of Time To Act.  Notwithstanding any other provision
of the Code to the contrary, an extension of time to act on applications or
initiations under the multiple approval provisions may be agreed upon between
the applicant and the decision-maker or the appellate body.



 



   G.   Expiration.  Notwithstanding any other provision of the Code:



 



   1.   Quasi-judicial Approvals granted in conjunction with
Legislative Approvals pursuant to these multiple entitlement procedures shall
expire with the Legislative Approval, not to exceed six years unless a
greater time results from the application of Section 12.25.



 



   2.   Quasi-judicial Approvals granted in conjunction with a
Subdivision Approval pursuant to these multiple entitlement procedures shall
expire with the Subdivision Approval pursuant to Article 7 of this Code.  If
the expiration date on a Subdivision Approval is extended pursuant to Article
7 of this Code, or by amendment to the Subdivision Map Act, the
Quasi-judicial Approval shall also be automatically extended for a
commensurate period of time.



 



   3.   Legislative Approvals granted in conjunction with a Subdivision
Approval pursuant to these multiple entitlement procedures may be extended
for the full time limit of the Subdivision Approval, including time
extensions pursuant to Article 7 of this Code, for the purpose of recordation
of an approved map.



 



 



SEC. 12.37.  HIGHWAY AND COLLECTOR STREET DEDICATION AND IMPROVEMENT.



   (Title amended by Ord. No. 150,799, Eff. 6/5/78.)



 



   A.   Requirement.  No building or structure shall be erected or
enlarged, and no building permit shall be issued therefor, on any lot in any
R3 or less restrictive zone (as such order of restrictiveness is set forth in
Subsection B of Section 12.23); or on any lot in the RD1.5, RD2 or RD3 Zones;
if such lot abuts a major or secondary highway or collector street unless the
one-half of the highway or collector street which is located on the same side
of the center of the highway or collector street as such lot has been
dedicated and improved for the full width of the lot so as to meet the
standards for such highway or collector street provided in Subsection H of
this section; and further provided that in the case of either a corner lot or
an L-shaped interior lot abutting a major or secondary highway and a local
street which intersect, that one-half of the local street, on the same side
of the center of said local street as such lot, has been dedicated and
improved for that portion of said lot or lots within 300 feet of the ultimate
property line of said highway so as to meet the standards for local streets
provided in Subsection H of this section and provide adequate right-turn
ingress to and egress from the highway; or such dedication and improvement
has been assured to the satisfaction of the City Engineer respectively.  As
used in this section, the Center/Control line of the arterial or collector
street shall mean the center of those arterial or collector streets as shown
on the Citywide Circulation System Map of the Circulation Element of the
General Plan or, with respect to collector streets, on the adopted community
plans of the Land Use Element of the General Plan on file in the offices of
the Department of City Planning.  (Amended by Ord. No. 184,718, Eff. 3/4/17.)



 



   1.   The maximum area of land required to be so dedicated shall not
exceed 25% of the area of any such lot which was of record on March 1, 1962
in the Los Angeles County Recorder’s Office. In no event  shall such
dedication reduce the lot below a width of 50 feet or an area of 5,000 square
feet.



 



   2.   No such dedication for any highway, collector street or any
other street shall be required with respect to those portions of such a lot
occupied by a legally existing main building which is to remain.



 



   3.   No additional improvement shall be required on such a lot where
complete roadway, curb, gutter and sidewalk improvements exist  within the
present dedication contiguous thereto.



 



   4.   No building or structure shall be erected on any such lot after
March 1, 1962 within the dedication required by Subsection H of this section.



 



   5.   No dedication shall be required where the existing right-of-way
is equal to or greater than the street standard, even where the improved
sidewalk does not meet the standard dimension.  (Amended by Ord. No.
184,718, Eff. 3/4/17.)



 



   6.   Where the existing improved roadway meets or exceeds the street
standard, no dedication shall be required except as necessary to bring the
abutting sidewalk dimension into compliance with the street standard as
depicted in the most recent version of the Bureau of Engineering's standard
plan number S470.  (Added by Ord. No. 184,718, Eff. 3/4/17.)



 



   7.   Nothing herein shall preclude the decision maker on a
discretionary entitlement from requiring a dedication or improvement greater
than what is set forth in this section, if the decision maker determines that
a greater dedication or improvement bears an essential nexus and rough
proportionality to a project impact.  (Added by Ord. No. 184,718, Eff.
3/4/17.)



 



   8.   For streets accompanied by a parallel frontage and/or service
road and for streets designated as divided streets, existing roadway
dimensions are deemed to be in compliance with the street standards and no
additional dedication or improvement is required.  A dedication for sidewalk
improvement shall be required, however, as necessary to bring the abutting
sidewalk dimension into compliance with the street standard.  (Added by Ord.
No. 184,718, Eff. 3/4/17.)



 



   9.   Additional dedication and improvement requirements may be
imposed in order to ensure compliance with the Americans with Disabilities
Act.  (Added by Ord. No. 184,718, Eff. 3/4/17.)



 



   10.   Notwithstanding the above, in order to obtain street
consistency, the Bureau of Engineering on a by-right project, or the decision
maker on a discretionary entitlement, may modify this section's dedication
and improvement requirements for meandering streets or portions of streets
that lack uniform roadway widths, including for divided streets, and streets
accompanied by a parallel frontage and/or service road.  (Added by Ord. No.
184,718, Eff. 3/4/17.)



 



   The guidelines developed by Streets Standards Committees shall be
consistent with the goals and purpose of the Transportation Element of the
General Plan as determined by the City Planning Commission.  These
guidelines shall also establish a procedure for notice to interested persons,
including the Councilmember of the district where the property is located.



 



   B.   Exceptions.  (Amended by Ord. No. 172,315, Eff. 12/31/98.) 
The provisions of Subsection A. of this section shall not apply to the
following construction projects:



 



   1.   One single-family dwelling with customary accessory buildings
when erected on a vacant lot.



 



   2.   Additions and accessory buildings incidental to a legally
existing residential building, provided no additional dwelling units or guest
rooms are created.



 



   3.   Additions and accessory buildings incidental to a legally
existing non- residential building, provided that the total cumulative floor
area of all such additions and accessory buildings shall not exceed 500
square feet.



 



   C.   Dedication Procedure.



 



   1.   Any person required to dedicate land by the provisions of this
section shall make an offer to dedicate, properly executed by all parties of
interest including beneficiaries in deeds of trust as shown by a current
preliminary title report prepared by a Title Company approved by the City
Engineer for that purpose. The trustee under a deed of trust shall not be
required to execute the dedicatory instrument, unless, in the view of the
City Engineer, such execution is necessary to satisfactorily dedicate the
land. Such report shall be furnished by the applicant. Such offer shall be on
a form approved by the City Attorney and the City Engineer; be in such terms
as to be binding on the owner, his heirs, assigns or successors in interest
and shall continue until the City Council accepts or rejects such offer or
until one year from the date such offer is filed with the City Engineer for
processing, whichever occurs first. The offer shall provide that the
dedication will be complete upon acceptance by the City Council. The offer
shall be recorded by the City Engineer in the Office of the County Recorder
of Los Angeles County upon its acceptance by the City Engineer. The City
Engineer shall accept or reject the offer for recordation within 10 days
after it is filed with the City Engineer. The offer shall thereafter be
promptly processed by the City Departments concerned and submitted to the
City Council, in order to complete the dedication within one year. If the
offer is rejected by the City Council or not processed within one year, the
City Engineer shall issue a release from such offer which shall be recorded
in the Office of the County Recorder unless the parties making the offer wish
to have the time extended. (Amended by Ord. No. 152,425, Eff. 6/29/79, Oper.
7/1/79.)



 



   D.   Improvement Procedure.



 



   1.   Any person required to make improvements by the provisions of
this section shall either make and complete the same to the satisfaction of
the City Engineer or shall file with the City Engineer a bond in such an
amount as the City Engineer shall estimate and determine to be necessary to
complete all of the improvements required.



 



   2.   Such bond may be either a cash bond or a bond executed by a
company authorized to act as a surety in this State. The bond shall be
payable to the City and be conditioned upon the faithful performance of any
and all work required to be done, and that should such work not be done or
completed within the time specified, the City may at its option, cause the
same to be done or completed, and the parties executing the bond shall be
firmly bound under a continuing obligation for the payment of all necessary
costs and expenses incurred in the construction thereof. The bond shall be
executed by the owner of the lot as principal, and if a surety bond, shall
also be executed by a corporation authorized to act as a surety under the
laws of the State of California.



 



   3.   Whenever the owner elects to deposit a cash bond, the City is
authorized, in the event of any default on his part, to use any or all of the
deposit money to cause all of the required work to be done or completed, and
for payment of all costs and expenses therefor. Any money remaining shall be
refunded to the owner.



 



   4.   When a substantial portion of the required improvement has been
completed to the satisfaction of the City Engineer and the completion of the
remaining improvements is delayed due to conditions beyond the owner’s
control, the City Engineer may accept the completed portion and consent to a
proportionate reduction of the surety bond in an amount estimated and
determined by the City Engineer to be adequate to assure the completion of
the required improvements remaining to be made.



 



   5.   Whenever a surety bond has been filed in compliance with this
section, the City is authorized, in the event of any default on the part of
the principal, to enforce collection, under such bond, for any and all
damages sustained by the City by reason of any failure on the part of the
principal faithfully and properly to do or complete the required
improvements, and in addition may cause all of the required work to be done
or completed, and the surety upon the bond shall be firmly bound for the
payment of all necessary costs thereof.



 



   6.   The term of the bond shall begin on the date of the deposit of
cash or the filing of the surety bond, and shall end upon the date of the
completion to the satisfaction of the City Engineer of all improvements
required to be made. The fact of such completion shall be endorsed by a
statement thereof signed by the City Engineer, and the deposit shall be
returned to the owner, or the surety bond may be exonerated at any time
thereafter.



 



   7.   For purposes of this section, improvement shall be considered
as satisfactorily assured when the City Engineer accepts the cash or surety
bond provided for herein or the improvements required to be made have been
completed to his satisfaction. When the City Engineer accepts the bond or the
work has been completed to his satisfaction he shall notify the Department of
Building and Safety thereof.



 



   E.   Issuance Of Building Permits After Certification Of Dedication
And Improvement. When all dedication and improvements required by this
section have been completed or satisfactorily assured a building permit may
be issued.



 



   F.   Fees.  (Amended by Ord. No. 184,718, Eff. 3/4/17.)  In
addition to all other required fees, the following fees shall be charged for
services provided for processing applications pursuant to the provisions of
this section:



 



   1.   A nonrefundable fee as set forth in Section 11.12 for every
property requiring the City Engineer to investigate and determine whether the
provisions of this section require a dedication of land or improvement to
land.



 



   2.   A fee as set forth in Section 11.12 for Bureau of Engineering
services for processing real estate transfer documents for every property for
which the provisions of this section require a dedication of land.



 



   3.   A nonrefundable fee in the amount of $1,970 paid to the
Department of City Planning for processing waiver requests pursuant to the
provisions of Subsection I. of this section.



 



   4.   A nonrefundable fee of $1,570 paid to the Department of City
Planning for processing appeals pursuant to the provisions of Subsection I.
of this section.



 



   G.   Lots Affected By Street Widening. (Amended by Ord. No. 125,340,
Eff. 9/23/63.) On a lot which is affected by street widening required by the
provisions of this section all required yards, setbacks, parking area,
loading space and building locations for new buildings or structures or
additions to buildings or structures shall be measured and calculated from
the new lot lines being created by said widening; provided, however, that for
the purpose of establishing the required front yard depth on a frontage where
the ultimate street line has been determined under the provisions of this
section, the depths of all existing front yards may be measured from such
ultimate street line instead of the front lot line.



 



   In applying all other provisions of this Article, the area of such lot
shall be considered as that which existed immediately prior to such required
street widening.



 



   H.   Improvement Standards. (Amended by Ord. No. 150,799, Eff.
6/5/78.)



 



   1.   All arterial and collector streets shall be constructed and
improved in accordance with the standards adopted by the City Planning
Commission pursuant to LAMC 17.05 B.  (Amended by Ord. No. 184,718, Eff.
3/4/17.)



 



   2.   All streets not designated major or secondary highways or
collector streets, but that intersect said highways, shall be dedicated to a
maximum width of sixty (60) feet.  Roadway and parkway widths shall conform
to those standards adopted by the City Planning Commission in accordance with
LAMC 17.05 B., depending upon street classification type.  Whenever
uncertainty exists as to the application of the provisions of this section,
or in instances of streets so classified as requiring less than 60 feet of
dedication in order to conform to the minimum width standards as adopted in
accordance with Section 17.05 B. of this Code, the City Engineer shall make
any necessary determinations.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,217, Eff. 6/11/00.)



 



   3.   All improvements required to be made by the provisions of this
subsection shall be done in accordance with the current applicable provisions
of the Standard specifications for Public Works Construction adopted by the
City Council.



 



   4.   The City Engineer may approve and allow such variations from
the aforesaid requirements as he determines are made necessary by the
conditions of the terrain and the existing improvements contiguous to the
property involved.



 



   I.   Waiver and Appeals.  (Amended by Ord. No. 184,718, Eff.
3/4/17.)



 



   1.   This subdivision shall constitute the exclusive mechanism for
waivers and appeals of dedication and improvement requirements under this
section.  Waivers of dedication or improvement requirements may not be
granted by City Council motion.



 



   2.   Waivers for By-Right Projects.  Any person seeking a waiver of
this section's dedication or improvement requirements for a project that does
not require a discretionary entitlement shall file an application for a
waiver with the Director of Planning.



 



   (a)   Notice.  Within 10 calendar days of the receipt of an
application for a waiver, the Director shall mail notice of the requested
waiver to the following individuals and entities with a notice that all
comments shall be submitted to the Director no later than 14 calendar days
following mailing of the notice:



 



   (1)   Owners of property across the street or alley from the subject
property;



 



   (2)   Owners of property with frontage along the same street that
has a common corner with or that abuts the subject property;



 



   (3)   Owners of property with frontage along the same street that
has a common corner with or that abuts any properties listed in Subparagraphs
(1) and (2) above;



 



   (4)   The Council member of the district where the subject property
is located; and



 



   (5)   The Department of Transportation and Bureau of Engineering.



 



   (6)   Notification pursuant to this section shall also be provided
to Advisory Agency members for waivers that requires the modification of a
Map.



 



   a.   Any person seeking a waiver that requires a modification of a
Map shall submit a map modification request and payment of map modification
fees to the Bureau of Engineering as required by Section 17.11.



 



   (b)   Findings.  The Director may waive, reduce or modify the
required dedication or improvement as appropriate after making any of the
following findings, in writing, based on substantial evidence in the record:



 



   (1)   The dedication or improvement requirement does not bear a
reasonable relationship to any project impact.



 



   (2)   The dedication or improvement is not necessary to meet the
City's mobility needs for the next 20 years based on guidelines the Streets
Standards Committee has established.



 



   (3)   The dedication or improvement requirement is physically
impractical.



 



   (c)   Written Determination. The Planning Director shall issue a
determination regarding the request no sooner than 15 calendar days following
mailing of the notice described above, and no later than 75 days from receipt
of the waiver application, or within any additional period mutually agreed
upon by the applicant and the Planning Director.  The Planning Director
shall mail the determination letter to all individuals to whom notice of the
application was provided.



 



   (d)   Appeal.  Any person required to dedicate land or make
improvements pursuant to this section may appeal the Planning Director's
decision to the Area Planning Commission.  The appeal shall be filed within
15 calendar days of the date of mailing of the Planning Director's
determination letter.  Such appeal shall be made in writing, shall be filed
at the Department of City Planning's public counter, shall state in clear and
concise language the grounds for the appeal, and shall be accompanied by a
filing fee in the amount specified above.



 



   (1)   Before acting on any appeal, the Area Planning Commission
shall set the matter for a hearing, giving at least 15 calendar days' notice
to the individuals identified in Paragraph 2.(a) above.



 



   (2)   On appeal, the Area Planning Commission shall consider the
waiver request de novo based on the findings set forth in Subdivision 2.(b)
above.  The Area Planning Commission shall act to approve or deny the appeal
within 75 calendar days after the expiration of the appeal period or within
any additional period mutually agreed upon by the applicant and the Area
Planning Commission.



 



   3.   Waivers for Discretionary Projects.  For projects that require
a discretionary entitlement, an applicant shall file a waiver request as part
of the master land use application or subdivider's statement for the
project.  In such case, the decision maker for the discretionary entitlement
shall process the waiver request pursuant to the procedures established for
the discretionary entitlement, but may only grant a waiver after making one
of the required findings set forth in Subdivision 2.(b) above.  The waiver
request must be set forth in the application filed with the Department of
City Planning, and may not be raised for the first time at the hearing on the
entitlement or at any entitlement appeal hearing.  The applicant may appeal
the waiver determination pursuant to the same procedures that govern the
entitlement; except in the case of projects that include a tentative map, the
waiver determination is subject to only one level of appeal.  On appeal, the
decision maker shall consider the waiver request de novo based on the
findings set forth in Subdivision 2.(b) above.



 



   If the discretionary entitlement(s) for a project have already been
approved prior to the effective date of this ordinance, an applicant may
apply for a waiver following the procedures for waivers for by-right projects
set forth above.



 



   4.   Waivers for a Map Modification.  Notwithstanding the Parcel,
Tentative or Final Tract Map modification procedures set forth in 17.11,
17.14, 17.53 or 17.59, projects that have an approved and/or recorded Map and
where the street standards for which the original dedication and/or
improvements were revised after the Map was either approved and/or recorded
may apply for a waiver from a street dedication and/or improvement using the
Waivers for By-Right Projects process described in Section 12.37 I.2., with
the Director acting for the Advisory Agency.



 



   5.   Exceptions.  Projects located in a Hillside area that seek to
obtain a waiver from a required street dedication and/or improvement shall
continue to use the procedures described in Sections 12.24 X.21. and X.28. as
applicable.



 



   6.   Authority of the City Engineer.  Notwithstanding any other
requirement of this Code, the City Engineer may waive or modify any condition
of approval or other obligation related to right-of-way improvement or
dedication consistent with the Circulation Element of the City's General Plan
without requiring any discretionary entitlement, including, but not limited
to, a modification under Sections 12.37 I.4. and 17.14.  Nothing in this
section is intended to relieve applicants and the City of compliance with the
Subdivision Map Act and state law.



 



   J.   City May Share The Cost Of Making Unusual Improvements. Upon
proper application to the City Council and upon recommendation of the City
Engineer, the City may accept and provide for contribution toward the cost of
making any improvement required by the provisions of this section which the
City Engineer determines will cost an amount greatly in excess of the cost to
other property owners who are required to make improvements under the
provisions of this section in the immediate vicinity of the said improvement.



 



   K.   City Engineer To Determine Street Alignment. Whenever
uncertainty exists as to the proper application of the provisions of this
section in the matter of street alignment, the City Engineer shall determine
their application in conformity with the spirit and intent of this section.
(Added by Ord. No. 125,340, Eff. 9/23/63.)



 



   L.   Written Notification To Permit Applicants Required.  When the
City Engineer determines that the provisions of this section are applicable
to any building permit application, he shall inform the permit applicant of
his determination, of the specific requirements of this Section which he
determines to be applicable thereto and of the availability and procedure for
appeal of his determination to the City Council. (Amended by Ord. No.
153,949, Eff. 7/19/80.)



 



 



SEC. 12.38.  DEDICATION OF STREETS BY LONG TERM LEASES.



   (Added by Ord. No. 157,737, Eff. 7/25/83.)



 



   A.   Eligibility. A lessee holding a parcel of real property under a
long term lease may offer to dedicate or convey a street easement for the
term of the lease only in satisfaction of the requirements of Section 12.37
of this Code providing the following conditions are met.



 



   1.   Such lease is of record in the office of the County Recorder,
and the lessee certifies under penalty of perjury that, except for the rental
provided for by such lease, the owners will receive no financial benefit or
other income from the proposed development during the term of the lease.



 



   2.   The area of real property to be so dedicated will be used for
sidewalk only, and not for vehicular traffic and not for the installation of
any subsurface or above surface lines, pipes, or other public or private
utility facilities, except for such facilities which will connect from the
fully dedicated streets into the buildings to be constructed.



 



   3.   That notwithstanding that the adjacent public street is fully
improved with all improvements as specified in Section 12.37-A-3, the
sidewalk will be fully constructed and all other necessary or desirable
public improvements in the adjacent street will be fully constructed by the
lessee as a part of its development on the leasehold estate, and the lessee
shall post the requisite bonds to guarantee such construction, and



 



   4.   The total value of the improvements to be constructed for which
the dedication is required is $3,000,000.00 or more, as determined by the
Department of Building and Safety.



 



   B.   Dedication Document. The dedication of the leasehold estate for
street purposes pursuant to this section shall be a form of deed making
specific reference to the document creating the leasehold estate and the deed
shall convey only the leasehold rights. The City Engineer is authorized to
accept such deeds and place same of record with the County Recorder of Los
Angeles County without further authority of the City Council, upon the
approval of such deed as to form by the City Attorney. Dedication of a
leasehold estate for street purposes shall not be approved and no building
shall issue if the City Attorney determines that the granting of such public
right will cause a forfeiture or termination of the leasehold rights in the
area to be dedicated.



 



 



SEC. 12.39.  LOW AND MODERATE HOUSING.



   (Repealed by Ord. No. 180,308, Eff. 12/7/08.)



 



 



SEC. 12.40.  LANDSCAPE - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 170,978, Eff. 5/13/96, Oper. 7/13/96.)



 



   A.   Purpose.



 



   1.   To bring greater order and certainty to the development process.



 



   2.   To respond to State-level mandates for action in such areas as
water conservation, energy conservation, enhancement of water quality, and
amelioration of air quality.



 



   3.   To increase the amount and quality of appropriate landscaping
appurtenant to all land uses in the City.



 



   4.   To establish a minimum level of regulation that protects the
public and at the same time allows for design flexibility.



 



   B.   Prohibitions.  Notwithstanding any provisions of Chapter 1 of
this Code to the contrary, the Department of Building and Safety shall not
issue any building, grading, or use of land permit for any Project unless the
Department of City Planning determines that the proposed landscaping will
meet the provisions of Sections 12.40 through 12.43 of this Code and has been
assured that any proposed landscaping will be installed.



 



   C.   Exceptions.  The provisions of Sections 12.40 through 12.43 of
this Code shall not apply to:



 



   1.   Any Project involving replacement of an earthquake hazardous
building demolished as a result of an enforcement of the Earthquake Safety
Ordinance (Division 88, Article 1, Chapter IX of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code.)



 



   2.   Any Project for which a building permit is required



 



   (a)   in order to comply with an order issued by the Department of
Building and Safety to repair an unsafe or substandard condition, or



 



   (b)   in order to rebuild as a result of destruction by fire,
earthquake, or other natural disaster.



 



   3.   Any Project regulated by Subparagraph (i) of Section 12.04.05 B
1 (a) of this Code.



 



   4.   Any Project which has obtained a still-valid discretionary land
use approval from the City prior to the operative date of this section, and
which also required approval of landscape documents.



 



   5.   Any Project where plans were accepted by the Department of
Building and Safety for plan check prior to the operative date of this
ordinance.  This exception does not apply to any Project where changes were
later made to the Project which increase the gross square footage or number
of parking spaces by more than five percent.  This exception shall no longer
be valid if construction is not commenced within one year of the date of
issuance of the permit.



 



   6.   Any landscape that is designated a Historic-Cultural Monument.



 



   7.   Cemeteries.



 



   D.   Definitions.  Whenever the following terms are used in
Sections 12.40 through 12.43 they shall be construed as defined below. 
Words and phrases not defined herein shall be construed as defined in
Sections 12.03, and in the Guidelines adopted by the City Planning Commission
pursuant to Subsection F below.



 



   Grass - Any relatively low-growing living ground cover of the family
Poaceae (Graminae), usually mown.  Includes, but is not limited to, members
of the species Agropyron (Wheat Grass), Agrostis (Bent Grass, Redtop),
Bouteloua (Blue Grama Grass), Buchloe (Buffalo Grass), Cynodon
(Bermudagrass), Festuca (Fescue), Lolium (Rye Grass), Poa (Bluegrass),
Stenotaphrum (St. Augustine Grass), Zoysia (Korean Grass).  Does not include
members of the family Poaceae (Graminae), that are usually not mown, such as
members of the species Aristidia (Triple-Awned Grass), Miscanthus (Eulalia
Grass), Muhlenbergia (Deer Grass).



 



   Landscape Practitioner - Any person licensed by the State of California
to design, install or maintain landscape or irrigation systems.  Any person
specifically exempted by the State from the licensing requirements in the
field of landscape or land management.  Any owner who designs, installs or
maintains landscaping or irrigation systems on his or her own property.



 



   Lawn Area - Any relatively low-growing, living, ground cover, typically
(but not necessarily) mown, that will withstand foot traffic, and that
requires dry-season irrigation greater than that required by Common
Bermudagrass (Cynodon dactylon).  Includes Dichondra and Clovers (Trifolium
species.)



 



   Native (Plant) - Any (plant) species indigenous to the Los Angeles area
existing before European settlement, as identified in James Hendrickson’s
The Jepson Manual, or its successor standard reference, as adopted by the
Director of Planning.



 



   Native (Plant) Community - A recurring combination of native (plant)
species that reflects parallel responses to similar combinations of
environmental conditions, as identified in Robert F. Holland’s
“Preliminary Descriptions of the Terrestrial Natural Communities of
California,” or its successor standard reference, as adopted by the
Director of Planning.



 



   Permeable - A material that permits water penetration to a soil depth
of 18 inches or more, including non porous surface material poured or laid in
sections not exceeding one square foot in area and collectively comprising
less than two-thirds of the total surface area of loosely laid material such
as crushed stone or gravel.



 



   Project - Any use of land, construction or addition which includes more
than 2,000 gross square feet of impermeable surface.  A Project shall
include new parking areas and additions to existing parking areas constructed
with impermeable paving and new parking buildings.  A Project shall not
include construction of or addition to one-family dwellings, nor shall a
Project include any structure or use of land which is permeable.



 



   Stream - Any perennial or intermittent stream or river identified on
United State Geological Survey Maps.



 



   Wetland - Any natural lake, intermittent lake, pond, intermittent pond,
marsh, swamp, seep or spring identified on United States Geological Survey
Maps.



 



   E.   Landscape Point System.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff.
7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  The Department of City Planning shall not approve
proposed landscape for any Project unless the landscape satisfies the
requirements of the landscape point system, as established by the City
Planning Commission.  A Project that satisfies any landscape requirements of
Sections 12.40 through 12.43 of this Code or any other sections of this Code,
may accrue points.



 



   F.   Approvals.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)  The Director of Planning shall have the authority to issue
approvals under Sections 12.40 through 12.43 of this Code.  The Director
shall review and approve or disapprove the proposed landscape.  These
decisions shall be based on the requirements for application submittal
established by the City Planning Commission.  The City Planning Commission
shall adopt and revise, as necessary, guidelines to implement the provisions
of Sections 12.40 through 12.43.  The Director may also grant exemptions
from Sections 12.40 through 12.43 if he or she finds that these landscaping
requirements are inappropriate due to the temporary nature of the Project.



 



   G.   Certificate of Substantial Completion.



 



   1.   When the approved landscape has been substantially installed, a
landscape practitioner shall file a certificate of substantial completion
certifying to the Department of City Planning, that the proposed landscape
required in Sections 12.40 through 12.43 of this Code has been substantially
provided on the Project.



 



   2.   Substantial completion may be guaranteed by the applicant, in
lieu of actual installation.  A performance bond, certificate of deposit,
letter of credit, surety deposit, or other instrument satisfactory to the
City Attorney, in any amount equal to the cost of the landscape, shall be
posted with the City to ensure satisfactory completion of the landscape.



 



   3.   Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to prevent the
Department of Building and Safety from issuing a certificate of occupancy,
when otherwise permitted or required.



 



   H.   Relationship To The Provisions of The Los Angeles Municipal
Code.



 



   1.   Existing “Q” Conditions, “D” Development Limitations or
“F” Funded Improvement Classifications.  In the case of conflicts
between Sections 12.40 through 12.43 of this Code with existing “Q”
conditions, “D” development limitations or “F” funded improvements
classifications, the existing “Q” conditions, “D” development
limitations or “F” funded improvement classifications shall control.



 



   2.   Existing Specific Plans.  In the case of conflicts between
Sections 12.40, 12.42 and 12.43 of this Code with existing specific plans,
the provisions of the following existing specific plans shall control: 
Central City West Specific Plan, Colorado Boulevard Specific Plan,
Devonshire-Topanga Specific Plan, Granada Hills Specific Plan, Mulholland
Scenic Parkway Specific Plan (controls over Section 12.42 only), Pacific
Palisades Commercial Village Specific Plan, Park Mile Specific Plan, Playa
Vista Specific Plan, Porter Ranch Specific Plan (controls over Section 12.43
only), Reseda Central Business District Specific Plan, San Vicente Scenic
Corridor Specific Plan, Valley Village Specific Plan, the Venice Coastal Zone
regulations, Ventura-Cahuenga Boulevard Corridor Specific Plan, Warner Center
Specific Plan, and Wilshire-Westwood Scenic Corridor Specific Plan.  In the
case of conflicts between Sections 12.40 through 12.43 of this Code with the
provisions of the Mount Washington Specific Plan or the Foothill Boulevard
Corridor Specific Plan, the more restrictive provisions shall control. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 171,694, Eff. 9/26/97.)



 



   3.   Future Specific Plans, “Q” Conditions, “D” Development
Limitations or “F” Funded Improvement Classifications.  Future specific
plans, “Q” conditions, “D” development limitations or “F” funded
improvement classifications may impose alternate landscape requirements, if
they expressly state that the specific plan’s,’”Q” conditions’s,
“D” development limitation’s or “F” funded improvement
classification’s landscape requirements are intended to supersede the
standards set forth in Sections 12.40 through 12.43 of this Code.



 



   I.   If any provision of Sections 12.40 through 12.43 conflicts with
Article 7, Chapter V of this Code, Article 7, Chapter V shall control.



 



   J.   Unless specifically prohibited by this Code, any existing
features and techniques that fulfill the requirements of Sections 12.40
through 12.43 of this Code may be used to satisfy the requirements of these
sections.  The provisions of Sections 12.40 through 12.43 of this Code shall
not require the removal of any existing structures or features nor prohibit
any existing, installed landscape techniques.  Where conflicts arise, all
efforts shall be made to conform to the provisions of Sections 12.40 through
12.43 of this Code in a reasonable and practical manner.



 



 



SEC. 12.41.  LANDSCAPE - WATER MANAGEMENT.



   (Added by Ord. No. 170,978, Eff. 5/13/96, Oper. 7/13/96.)



 



   A.   Purpose.  To contribute to conservation of the City’s
imported water resources mandated by state law by setting minimum standards
for water delivery systems to landscapes.



 



   B.   Requirements and Prohibitions.



 



   1.   No building permit, use of land permit, or grading permit for
which landscape is required or for which landscape is provided shall be
issued, except when the purpose is to construct a one-family dwelling, unless
the Department of City Planning first determines that the required Water
Management features and techniques, established by the City Planning
Commission will be installed on the subject lot.  No water management
approval shall be required or issued for these permits unless a landscape
approval required for the permits has first been issued by the Department of
City Planning.



 



   2.   All permanent irrigation systems required under the provisions
of this Code that use potable water shall meet the minimum specifications for
features and techniques established by the City Planning Commission.



 



   3.   No irrigation system shall be required for undisturbed native
or undisturbed natural vegetation, provided that the overall hydrologic
regime that supported the vegetation remains unaltered.  At the discretion
of the Department of City Planning, an irrigation system may be required when
the applicant proposes to establish native plantings, designed to take
advantage of natural rainfall.



 



   4.   No portion of this section shall be construed to mandate any
specific type of irrigation equipment, either existing or to be developed,
except backflow preventers, nor any specific method of application of water,
either existing or to be developed, provided it meets the criteria set forth
in this section, unless specifically required by other sections of this
Code.  The provision of hose bibs or quick coupler valves shall be
considered the provision of an irrigation system, provided all points of the
irrigated area are less than 50 feet from a hose bib or quick coupler valve;
no portion of the irrigated area slopes at more than a 5:1 grade; and the
total area to be irrigated does not exceed 500 square feet.



 



   5.   Irrigation Maintenance.  All portions of every irrigation
system shall be continuously maintained in a condition such that the intent
of the irrigation design is fulfilled.  Uncontrolled emission of water from
any pipe, valve head, emitter, or other irrigation device shall be considered
evidence of non-maintenance.



 



   6.   For the purposes of this section only, a Landscape practitioner
is as defined in Section 12.40D and also includes any person certified by a
professional organization in the field of water management, or any person
with a bachelor’s degree or equivalent from a California college or
university, in the field of water management, when not in conflict with
applicable State licensing laws and guidelines adopted by the Director of
Planning.  The Director is hereby authorized to adopt guidelines and
procedures necessary to implement the provisions of this section.



 



   7.   Mulch.  Owners of landscaping shall be encouraged to provide
for plant mulching with planted areas provided with a layer of mulch a
minimum of three inches deep, to aid the growth of the plants.



 



 



SEC. 12.42.  LANDSCAPE.



   (Added by Ord. No. 170,978, Eff. 5/13/96, Oper. 7/13/96.)



 



   A.   Conservation of Energy.



 



   1.   Purpose.  To contribute to mitigation of increasing urban
temperatures, thereby reducing the need for new power generating facilities,
the following regulations shall apply.



 



   2.   Tree Planting.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00,
Oper. 7/1/00.)  Applications for landscape approval shall contain a proposal
for shading of walls of structures in accordance with the guidelines
established by the City Planning Commission.



 



   B.   Heat and Glare Reduction.



 



   1.   Purpose.  To contribute to the mitigation of increasing urban
temperatures, thereby reducing the need for new power generating facilities,
to reduce storm water runoff, and to increase ground water recharge, the
following regulations shall apply.



 



   2.   Vehicular Use Areas.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff.
7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Code to
the contrary, applications for landscape approval shall contain a proposal
for heat and glare reduction in vehicular use areas in accordance with
guidelines established by the City Planning Commission.



 



   C.   Air Quality Enhancement.



 



   1.   Purpose.  To ensure coordination between landscape and other
features of the urban environment and to contribute to the processes of
oxygen regeneration, clearing the air of harmful pollutants, and removal of
air-borne particulates, the following regulations shall apply.



 



   2.   Procedure.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)  Applications for landscape approval shall contain a proposal for
air quality enhancement, in accordance with the guidelines established by the
City Planning Commission.



 



   D.   Soil and Watershed Conservation.



 



   1.   Purpose.  To conserve the unique character of the City which
is largely determined by its landforms; and to encourage the restoration of
such native areas as are unavoidably disturbed by development; to conserve
soil and accumulated organic litter and reduce erosion by utilization of a
variety of methods; and to increase residence time of precipitation in the
watershed, the following regulations shall apply.



 



   2.   General Requirements.



 



   (a)   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.) 
The Department of Building and Safety shall not issue any building permits
for a Project where soil and watershed conservation techniques, as provided
in this section and in the guidelines established by the City Planning
Commission, have not been used, as determined by the Department of City
Planning.  Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 1 of Chapter IX of this
Code, all cut and fill slopes in Hillside Areas determined under the
provisions of that article of this Code to be subject to erosion, shall be
planted and irrigated pursuant to the provisions of this subdivision.



 



   (b)   All cut and fill slopes in Hillside Areas shall be landform
graded and landform planted to the maximum extent feasible where such
techniques do not affect the stability of the graded slopes.  Where landform
grading is unsuitable for the entire graded area, portions of the graded area
may be required by the Department of City Planning to be landform graded and
landform planted, consistent with public safety.  Nothing in this paragraph
shall prohibit the Department of Building and Safety from enforcing the
planting and irrigation provisions of the Grading Division of Chapter IX of
this Code.



 



   (c)   The Director shall take measures to ensure that the planting
of slopes shall take into consideration such factors as degree of slope,
slope orientation, type of soil, rooting depth of plants, fire dangers,
availability of water, original native communities, depth of soil, and other
relevant design factors.



 



   (d)   Non-native plants, when used, shall compliment native
communities in growth habit, foliage color, cultural requirements, and
flowering behavior.



 



   3.   Required Vegetation.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff.
7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  Manufactured slopes shall be planted in accordance
with the guidelines established by the City Planning Commission.



 



   E.   Landscape Techniques.



 



   1.   Turf Block.  Turf block, turf stone or similar materials shall
be considered non-planted areas, except in planted portions of emergency
access ways when permitted by the Fire Department.  (Amended by Ord. No.
171,530, Eff. 4/4/97.)



 



   2.   Coordination with Signs and Lighting.  All planting shall be
coordinated with all signs and lighting on the Project site, both upon
installation of the planting and upon the planting reaching its maximum
designed size.  All shall be designed such that one will not interfere with
the other, nor require excessive maintenance.



 



   3.   Planting Techniques.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff.
7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  All planting shall be accomplished in accordance
with the guidelines established by the City Planning Commission.



 



   F.   Walls.  All concrete or masonry walls shall have a minimum
nominal thickness of six inches unless designed to withstand lateral force
and constructed pursuant to plans approved by the Department of Building and
Safety.



 



 



SEC. 12.43.  SOURCE REDUCTION OF WASTE.



   (Added by Ord. No. 170,978, Eff. 5/13/96, Oper. 7/13/96.)



 



   A.   If any landscape includes grass, all grass clippings shall be
recycled on- or off-site, and shall not be introduced into the off-site waste
stream.



 



   B.   If a lot is 7,500 square feet or greater, all vegetative waste,
except that which is not appropriate to recycle, shall be recycled on- or
off-site and shall not be introduced into the off-site waste stream.



 



   C.   In any landscape with lawn area greater than 15 percent of the
planted area, all lawn area waste shall be recycled on- or off-site.



 



   D.   Exceptions shall be made when the waste is produced by
installation of the landscape, as a result of fulfilling the requirements of
Division 88, Article 1 of Chapter IX of this Code, or as a result of
fulfilling the requirements of Article 7, Chapter V of this Code.



 



   E.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code, except for
Subsection A, the provisions of this section shall take effect only at the
time and in the manner that the Board of Public Works, after a public
hearing, certifies to the Director that sufficient off-site facilities exist
to handle the expected volume of recycled vegetative waste.



 



 



SEC. 12.50.  AIRPORT APPROACH ZONING REGULATIONS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)



 



   A.   Scope and Applicability of Regulations.  It is hereby found
that potential airport hazards exist or may be created in connection with the
maintenance and operation of the Van Nuys and Los Angeles International
Airports.  In order to prevent the creation or establishment of these
hazards, special airport zoning regulations controlling height limits and
regulating the use of the land are hereby established within the airport
hazard areas surrounding the Van Nuys and Los Angeles International
Airports.  The provisions of this section are not intended to abrogate any
other section of this Code, and when it appears that there is a conflict with
other sections, the most restrictive requirement shall apply.



 



   B.   Airport Hazard Areas Map.  The boundaries of the airport
hazard areas and the height limitations imposed in those areas are shown on
the “Airport Hazard Areas Map”, made up of separate sheets and bearing
appropriate marks, notations, references and other information and consisting
of:



 



   (1)   the Airport Hazard Areas Map relating to the Van Nuys Airport
and adopted as part of Ordinance No. 130,500, which added Section 12.50 to
this Code;



 



   (2)   the Airport Hazard Areas Map relating to the Los Angeles
International Airport, (both of which maps are attached and by this reference
incorporated into this ordinance and made a part of it as though set forth at
length); and



 



   (3)   any future amendments and additions to the maps as may be
adopted by ordinance.



 



   C.   Definitions.  For the purpose of this section certain terms
and words are defined as follows:



 



   1.   Airport Hazard means any structure or tree or use of land which
obstructs the airspace required for the flight of aircraft in landing or
taking off at an airport or is otherwise hazardous to the landing or taking
off of aircraft.



 



   2.   Airport Hazard Area means any area of land or water upon which
an airport hazard might be established if not prevented as provided in this
section.



 



   3.   Structure means any object constructed or installed by man,
including, but without limitation, buildings, towers, smoke stacks, and
overhead lines.



 



   4.   Tree means any object of natural growth.



 



   D.   General Provisions.  Except where it is determined by a Zoning
Administrator, or by the Area Planning Commission upon appeal pursuant to
Subsections B through Q of Section 12.24, after consideration of any report
and recommendation which might be submitted by the General Manager of the
Department of Airports, that compliance with this section in a particular
situation would result in practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship and
that the proposed height of a structure or tree beyond that otherwise
permitted by the provisions of this section will not constitute a hazard to
aircraft or in any way interfere with air safety or the safety of persons and
objects on the ground, no structure shall be erected, structurally altered,
enlarged or maintained, and no tree shall be planted, allowed to grow or be
maintained within the airport hazard areas surrounding the Van Nuys or Los
Angeles International Airports which exceeds the heights as shown on the
Airport Hazard Areas Map or as further provided in Subsection F for
transitional surface areas.  The procedure and fees for requesting and
procuring a determination of an exception mentioned herein, for appealing
from the determination or requesting a transfer of jurisdiction to the Area
Planning Commission, and the time limitations applicable to those actions
shall be the same as those provided in Subsections B through Q of Section
12.24 of this code; provided, however, that upon the filing of a request for
exception with the Department of City Planning, the Department shall
immediately request a report and recommendation from the General Manager of
the Department of Airports and time shall not commence to run for a Zoning
Administrator to act until the report and recommendation has been received or
60 days have elapsed from the time of the request.



 



   E.   Use Restrictions.  Notwithstanding any other provisions of
this article, no use may be made of land within an airport hazard area, as
established by this section in a manner as to create electrical or electronic
interference with radio or radar communication between the Van Nuys or Los
Angeles International Airports and approaching or departing aircraft.  No
illuminated or flashing advertising or business sign, billboard or any other
structure shall be installed or maintained within an airport hazard area
which would make it difficult for flyers to distinguish between those lights
and the aeronautical lights of the airport, or which would result in glare in
the eyes of pilots and impairment of visibility or otherwise endanger the
landing, taking off or maneuvering of aircraft.



 



   F.   Transitional Surface Area Height Limits.  The height limit in
the transitional surface areas, as shown on the above described map, shall be
an inclined plane surface having a slope ratio of one vertical to seven
horizontal, sloping upward and outward from the boundary of the transitional
surface area on either side of a runway or from the edge of a runway approach
area, whichever is adjacent.  The direction of the slope shall be at right
angles to the center line of the runway or its prolongation and shall extend
upward from the elevation of the nearest runway or from the height limit
elevation permitted in a runway approach area, whichever is adjacent.



 



   G.   Interpretations.  Where uncertainty exists in applying the
provisions of this section, the Zoning Administrator, upon written request,
shall determine the location of the boundary lines of the airport hazard
areas or the height limits by written decision pursuant to Subsections B
through Q of Section 12.24.  A copy of the decision shall be furnished to
the Department of Building and Safety.



 



   Any person claiming to be aggrieved by the determination of the Zoning
Administrator with respect to the location of the boundary lines of the
airport hazard areas or the height limits permitted therein may, within 15
days after the decision of the Zoning Administrator, appeal to the Area
Planning Commission pursuant to Subsections B through Q of Section 12.24 of
this Code.



 



   The Area Planning Commission, upon notice to the person claiming to be
aggrieved, shall hear the appeal within 15 days after it is filed.  Upon
hearing the appeal, the Area Planning Commission shall within 14 days declare
its findings.  It may sustain, modify or overrule the decision of the Zoning
Administrator.



 



   H.   Exception.  The provisions of this section shall not prevent
structures, including all projections from the structure, to be erected,
structurally altered, enlarged or maintained and trees to be planted and
maintained to an overall height of not to exceed 45 feet above the natural or
finished grade, whichever is lower.



 



   I.   Continuation of Existing Regulations.  The provisions of this
section, insofar as they are substantially the same as existing provisions
relating to the same subject matter, shall be construed as restatements and
continuations and not as new enactments.



 



   J.   Before any existing structure which conforms to all other
provisions of this article but which does not conform with the provisions of
this section may be replaced, substantially altered or repaired, or rebuilt
in a manner not conforming with the height limitations of this section, a
permit must be secured from the Department of Building and Safety in addition
to all other permits required by this Code.  All applications for these
permits shall be granted except those which would permit a nonconforming
structure to be made higher or become a greater hazard to air navigation than
it was when the applicable restrictions of this section were adopted or when
the application for the permit was made, whichever is the more restrictive. 
No permit is required by this section to make maintenance repairs to or to
replace parts of existing structures which do not enlarge or increase the
height of those structures.



 



   Any existing tree which does not conform with the provisions of this
section may remain or be replaced by one of comparable or smaller size or be
replanted but shall not be allowed to grow higher or become a greater hazard
to air navigation than it was when the applicable restrictions of this
section were adopted.



 



 



SEC. 12.70.  ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ZONING.



   (Added by Ord. No. 151,294, Eff. 9/1/78.)



 



   A.   Purpose. It is the purpose and object of this section to
establish reasonable and uniform regulations to prevent the continued
concentration of adult entertainment businesses, as defined herein, within
the City of Los Angeles.



 



   B.   Definitions.  For the purpose of this section, certain terms
and words are defined as follows:



 



   1.   “Adult Arcade” – An establishment where, for any form of
consideration, one or more motion picture projectors, slide projectors or
similar machines, for viewing by five or fewer persons each, are used to show
films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other photographic
reproductions which are characterized by an emphasis upon the depiction or
description of “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical
areas.”



 



   2.   “Adult Bookstores” – An establishment which has as a
substantial portion of its stock-in-trade and offers for sale for any form of
consideration any one or more of the following:



 



   (a)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other visual
representations which are characterized by an emphasis upon the depiction or
description of “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical
areas;” or



 



   (b)   Instruments, devices or paraphernalia which are designed for
use in connection with “specified sexual activities.”



 



   3.   “Adult Cabaret” – A nightclub, bar, restaurant or similar
establishment which regularly features live performances which are
characterized by the exposure of “specified anatomical areas” or by
“specified sexual activities,” or films, motion pictures, video
cassettes, slides or other photographic reproductions which are characterized
by an emphasis upon the depiction or description of “specified sexual
activities” or “specified anatomical areas.”



 



   4.   “Adult Motel” – A motel or similar establishment offering
public accommodations for any form of consideration which provides patrons
with closed circuit television transmissions, films, motion pictures, video
cassettes, slides or other photographic reproductions which are characterized
by an emphasis upon the depiction or description of “specified sexual
activities” or “specified anatomical areas.”



 



   5.   “Adult Motion Picture Theater” – An establishment where,
for any form of consideration, films, motion pictures, video cassettes,
slides or similar reproductions are shown, and in which a substantial portion
of the total presentation time is devoted to the showing of material which is
characterized by an emphasis upon the depiction or description of
“specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas”



 



   6.   “Adult Theater” – A theater concert hall, auditorium or
similar establishment which, for any form of consideration, regularly
features live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
“specified anatomical areas” or by “specified sexual activities.”



 



   7.   “Establishment” (Amended by Ord. No. 157,538, Eff.
5/13/83.)  – As used in Subsection C hereof, the “establishment” of an
adult entertainment business shall mean and include any of the following:



 



   (a)   The opening or commencement of any such business as a new
business;



 



   (b)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not an
adult entertainment business, to any of the adult entertainment businesses
defined herein; or



 



   (c)   The relocation of any such business.



 



   8.   “Massage Parlor”  –  An establishment where, for any
form of consideration, massage, alcohol rub, fomentation, electric or
magnetic treatment, or similar treatment or manipulation of the human body is
administered, unless such treatment or manipulation is administered by a
medical practitioner, chiropractor, acupuncturist, physical therapist or
similar professional person licensed by the State of California. This
definition does not include an athletic club, health club, school, gymnasium,
state licensed cosmetology or barber establishment, reducing salon, spa or
similar establishment where massage or similar manipulation of the human body
is offered as an incidental or accessory service. (Amended by Ord. No.
155,718, Eff. 8/6/81.)



 



   9.   “Public Park” – A park, playground, swimming pool, beach,
pier, reservoir, golf course or similar athletic field within the City of Los
Angeles which is under the control, operation or management of the City Board
of Recreation and Park Commissioners or the County Department of Beaches.



 



   10.   “Religious Institution” – A building which is used
primarily for religious worship and related religious activities.



 



   11.   “School”  – An institution of learning for minors,
whether public or private which offers instruction in those courses of study
required by the California Education Code or which is maintained pursuant to
standards set by the State Board of Education. This definition includes a
nursery school, kindergarten, elementary school, junior high school, senior
high school or any special institution of learning under the jurisdiction of
the State Department of Education, but it does not include a vocational or
professional institution or an institution of higher education, including a
community or junior college, college or university.



 



   12.   “Sexual Encounter Establishment” – An establishment,
other than a hotel, motel or similar establishment offering public
accommodations, which, for any form of consideration, provides a place where
two or more persons may congregate, associate or consort in connection with
“specified sexual activities” or the exposure of “specified anatomical
areas.” This definition does not include an establishment where a medical
practitioner, psychologist, psychiatrist or similar professional person
licensed by the State of California engages in sexual therapy.



 



   13.   “Specified Anatomical Areas”  – As used herein,
“specified anatomical areas” shall mean and include any of the following:



 



   (a)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, 
pubic region, buttocks, anus or female breasts below a point immediately
above the top of the areolas; or



 



   (b)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.



 



   14.   “Specified Sexual Activities” — As used herein,
“specified sexual activities” shall mean and include any of the following:



 



   (a)   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus or female breasts;



 



   (b)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation or sodomy;



 



   (c)   Masturbation, actual or simulated; or



 



   (d)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of
the activities set forth in (a) through (c) above.



 



   15.   “Substantial Enlargement” – As used in Subsection C
hereof, the “substantial enlargement” of an adult entertainment business
shall mean the increase in floor area occupied by the business by more than
fifty percent (50%), as such floor area exists on the effective date of this
section.



 



   16.   “Transfer of Ownership or Control” – As used in
Subsections C and E hereof, the “transfer of ownership or control” of an
adult entertainment business shall mean and include any of the following:



 



   (a)   The sale, lease or sublease of such business;



 



   (b)   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling
interest in such business, whether by sale, exchange or similar means; or



 



   (c)   The establishment of a trust, gift or other similar legal
device which transfers the ownership or control of such business, except for
transfer by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person
possessing such ownership or control.



 



   17.   “Adult Entertainment Business” – Adult Arcade, Adult
Bookstore, Adult Cabaret, Adult Motel, Adult Motion Picture Theatre, Adult
Theatre, Massage Parlor, or Sexual Encounter Establishment, as defined
herein, and each shall constitute a separate adult entertainment business
even if operated in conjunction with another adult entertainment business at
the same establishment. (Added by Ord. No. 157,538, Eff. 5/13/83.)



 



   C.   Prohibition. (Amended by Ord. No. 158,579, Eff. 1/23/84.) No
person shall cause or permit the establishment, substantial enlargement or
transfer of ownership or control of an adult entertainment business within
1,000 feet of another adult entertainment business, or within 500 feet of a
religious institution, school, or public park within the City of Los Angeles.
No person shall cause or permit the establishment or maintenance of more than
one adult entertainment business in the same building, structure or portion
thereof, or the increase of floor area of any adult entertainment business in
any building, structure or portion thereof containing another adult
entertainment business.



 



   No person shall cause or permit the establishment, or substantial
enlargement of an adult entertainment business within 500 feet of any lot in
an “A” or “R” zone, or within the “CR”, “C1”, or “C1.5”
zones in the City of Los Angeles.



 



   After March 6,1988, no person shall cause or permit the continued
operation, maintenance, or use of a lot, building or structure, or any
portion thereof as an Adult Arcade, Adult Bookstore, Adult Cabaret, Adult
Motel, Adult Motion Picture Theater, Adult Theater, Massage Parlor or Sexual
Encounter Establishment, within 500 feet of any lot in an “A” zone or
“R” zone, or within the “CR”, “C1” or “C1.5” zones in  the
City of Los Angeles. (Added by Ord. No. 161,111, Eff. 5/18/86.)



 



   D.   Measurement Of Distance. The distance between any two adult
entertainment businesses shall be measured in a straight line, without regard
to intervening structures, from the closest exterior structural wall of each
business. The distance between any adult entertainment business and any
religious institution, school or public park shall be measured in a straight
line, without regard to intervening structures, from the closest exterior
structural wall of the adult entertainment business to the closest property
line of the religious institution, school or public park.



 



   E.   Exceptions.



 



   1.   A person possessing ownership or control of an adult
entertainment business which is within 1,000 feet of another such business or
within 500 feet of any religious institution, school or public park on the
effective date of this ordinance shall be permitted to transfer such
ownership or control within two (2) years of said effective date. The person
acquiring such ownership or control, however, shall be required to
discontinue said adult entertainment business within five (5) years from the
date of said transfer of ownership or control, if such business continues to
be within 1,000 feet of another such business or within 500 feet of any
religious institution, school or public park.



 



   2.   A person possessing ownership or control of an adult
entertainment business shall be permitted to transfer such ownership or
control if such business is not within 500 feet of any religious institution,
school or public park and the only other adult entertainment business or
businesses within 1,000 feet of such business have been established under a
variance from the requirements of this section, pursuant to the variance
provisions set forth in Section 12.27 of this Code. This exception shall not,
however, apply to an adult entertainment business which has been established
under such a variance.



 



   3.   Except for an adult entertainment business required to be
discontinued pursuant to Subdivision 1 of this subsection, if more than one
adult entertainment businesses exists in the same building, structure or
portion thereof, then all may be continued until March 10, 1985. At that time
all shall be discontinued except those established prior to September 1,
1978; but if none of the adult entertainment businesses were established
prior to September 1, 1978, then all shall be discontinued except for one,
and in case of a dispute the adult entertainment business established first
shall have the priority right to continue.



 



   4.   An adult entertainment business may be continued, or
established and maintained, pursuant to Section 12.22A20.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 161,111, Eff. 5/18/86.)



 



   F.   Severability.  If any provision or clause of this section or
the application thereof to any person or circumstance is held to be
unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction,
such invalidity shall not affect other section provisions, clauses or
applications thereof which can be implemented without the invalid provision,
clause or application thereof, and to this end the provisions and clauses of
this section are declared to be severable.



 



 



SEC. 12.80.  HOMELESS SHELTERS – EMERGENCIES – CITY OWNED AND LEASED
PROPERTY.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 186,339, Eff. 10/23/19.)



 



   Notwithstanding any provisions of this article to the contrary, during
any period for which the Mayor and/or the City Council have declared a
shelter crisis within the meaning of Government Code Sections 8698, et seq.,
a shelter for the homeless (as defined in Section 12.03 of this Code) may be
established and operated on property owned or leased by the City of Los
Angeles in any zone as a matter of right without regard to the number of beds
or number of persons served.  Facilities used as a shelter for the homeless
under this section must comply with the minimum building regulations set
forth in Section 91.8605 of this Code, as it is currently written or as it
may be amended in the future.  If the lot on which any such shelter is
located does not have sufficient area to provide the number of parking spaces
required by Section 12.21 A.4.(w) of this Code, then the number of spaces
required shall be the number for which adequate area exists.  If
insufficient area for any parking spaces exists on the lot, no spaces shall
be required.



 



 



SEC. 12.81.  HOMELESS SHELTERS – EMERGENCIES – CHARITABLE ORGANIZATIONS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 186,339, Eff. 10/23/19.)



 



   A.   Notwithstanding any provisions of this article to the contrary,
during any period for which the Mayor and/or the City Council have declared a
shelter crisis within the meaning of Government Code Sections 8698, et seq.,
a shelter for the homeless (as defined in Section 12.03 of this Code) may be
established and operated in the R3, RAS3, R4, RAS4, R5, C2, C4, C5, CM, M1,
M2, and M3 zones without regard to the number of beds or number of persons
served, if the shelter is operated by a religious institution or a
non-profit, charitable organization and the shelter is located on property
owned or leased by that institution or organization.  If the lot on which
any such shelter is located does not have sufficient area to provide the
number of parking spaces required by Section 12.21 A.4.(w) of this Code, then
the number of spaces required shall be the number for which adequate area
exists.  If insufficient area for any parking spaces exists on the lot, no
spaces shall be required.  Unreinforced masonry and/or non-ductile concrete
buildings shall not be used as shelters for the homeless.



 



   B.   Requirements.



 



   1.   Providers shall register with the City of Los Angeles by
submitting "Cold/Wet Weather Temporary Shelter Application" online via the
City's website (www.lacity.org); and



 



   2.   Providers shall comply with the "Cold/Wet Weather Temporary
Shelter" requirements promulgated by the Los Angeles Fire Department's Fire
Prevention and Public Safety Bureau; and



 



   3.   Providers shall provide written notification to the owners of
properties abutting the subject property, as well as to any school located
within 500 feet of the subject property, prior to operating a shelter for the
homeless on the subject property.



 



   4.   Providers shall comply with all local, state, and federal
requirements that apply to the permitted use of their property while
operating a shelter for the homeless pursuant to this section.



 



 



SEC. 12.82.  HOMELESS SHELTERS – EMERGENCIES – EL NIÑO 2016.



   (Added by Ord. No. 184,168, Eff. 4/5/16.)



 



   A.   Notwithstanding any provisions of this article to the contrary,
during the period not totaling more than 90 days from the effective date of
this ordinance, a shelter for the homeless may be established and operated in
any zone of the City without regard to the number of beds or number of
persons served, if the shelter is located on property owned or leased by the
provider and complies with the "Cold/Wet Weather Temporary Shelter"
requirements promulgated by the Los Angeles Fire Department's Fire Prevention
and Public Safety Bureau.  If the lot on which any such shelter is located
does not have sufficient area to provide the number of parking spaces
required by Section 12.21 A.4.(w) of this Code, then the number of spaces
required shall be the number for which adequate area exists.  If
insufficient area for any parking spaces exists on the lot, no spaces shall
be required.



 



   B.   For the purposes of this section only, a shelter for the
homeless means a facility operated by a "provider", other than a "community
care facility" as defined in the California Health and Safety Code Section
1502, which provides temporary accommodations to homeless persons and/or
families and which meets the state's standards for shelters.  The term
"temporary accommodations" means that a homeless person or family will be
allowed to reside at the shelter for a time period not to exceed 90 days from
the effective date of this ordinance.  For the purpose of this section, a
"provider" shall mean a government agency, religious institution, non-profit
charitable organization or private non-profit organization which provides, or
contracts with recognized community organizations to provide, emergency or
temporary shelter for the homeless, and which meets all applicable state
health and safety requirements.  Unreinforced masonry and/or non-ductile
concrete buildings shall not be used as shelters for the homeless.



 



 



 


Disclaimer:
The information published on this website is updated periodically.
Consequently, there may be delays of up to three (3) months between the
passage of legislation and its posting. Please visit the City of Los Angeles
website at www.lacity.org to see more recently-enacted legislation.


ARTICLE 2.9
CONDOMINIUMS, COMMUNITY APARTMENTS AND STOCK COOPERATIVES



 




(Art. 2.5 Renumbered Art. 2.9 by Ord. No. 162,832, Eff. 10/26/87.)




 



 



Section



12.95.2   Conversion Projects:  Residential; Residential to
Commercial/Industrial.



12.95.3   Conversion Projects:  Commercial/industrial;
Commercial/Industrial to Residential.



 



 



SEC. 12.95.2.  CONVERSION PROJECTS:  RESIDENTIAL; RESIDENTIAL TO
COMMERCIAL/INDUSTRIAL.



   (Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 154,960, Eff. 4/3/81.) (Section
Renumbered by Ord. No. 162,832, Eff. 10/26/87.)



 



   A.   Purpose:  The purpose of these provisions is to promote
greater individual choice in type, quality, price and location of housing; to
provide for the housing needs of all segments of the population; to provide
increased homeownership opportunities for all segments of the population; to
mitigate the hardship caused by displacement of tenants, particularly those
in low to moderate cost housing and those who are elderly, families with
minor dependent children, the handicapped and the disabled; to promote the
safety of conversion projects and correction of Building Code violations in
such projects; to provide adequate off-street parking; to encourage
construction of new rental units to replace units lost due to conversions; to
protect the existing rental housing stock by reducing conversions; to provide
increased opportunities for the ownership of commercial or industrial real
property in the form of condominiums or stock cooperatives; to assure that
the continued use of buildings for commercial or industrial purposes is
substantially consistent with applicable general and specific plans; and to
generally regulate projects in accordance with applicable general and
specific plans and with the public health, safety and welfare.



 



   B.   Applicability:  The provisions of this section shall apply to
all tentative maps and preliminary parcel maps as to which the Advisory
Agency has not rendered a decision on the date this section becomes
effective. The provisions of this amendment to this section shall only apply
to all tentative maps and preliminary parcel maps as to which the Advisory
Agency has not rendered a decision on the date the amendment becomes
effective, except as otherwise expressly stated in this section. For purposes
of this subsection, a decision is rendered on the date of the Advisory
Agency’s public hearing and announced decision, or where no such decision
is announced, the date of mailing of the Advisory Agency’s letter of
decision and findings to the applicant.



 



   C.   Definitions:  The terms used in this section are defined in
Sections 12.03 and 17.02 of the Municipal Code.



 



   D.   Application Requirements:



 



   1.   Residential Conversion Projects:



 



   a.   A residential conversion project shall comply with the Division
of Land regulations in Article 7 of this chapter, the provisions of this
section and other applicable state laws and local ordinances.



 



   b.   In addition to the information required by other applicable
sections of this Code, the following information shall be submitted at the
time of filing.



 



   (1)   Building plans or other documents containing the following
information pertaining to the project as proposed, certified as to accuracy
by a licensed engineer.



 



   (a)   Description of the features of the type of building and
project, including age, type of construction, number of dwelling units,
number of habitable rooms per dwelling unit; and



 



   (b)   Site plan, including buildings, structures, yards, open
spaces, and accessory storage areas and buildings including trash storage
areas; and



 



   (c)   Parking plan, including the total number of spaces actually
provided and the total number required if different from that actually
provided; dimensions of stalls, aisles and driveways; locations of columns,
walls and other obstructions; total number of covered and uncovered parking
spaces and location and number of guest parking spaces.



 



   (2)   Tenant Information.  Name and address of each tenant; total
number of project occupants; length of tenancy; rent schedule for 18 months
preceding the application; relocation assistance plan.  (Amended by Ord. No.
178,632, Eff. 5/26/07.)



 



   (3)   Sales Information.  Anticipated range of sales prices of
individual dwelling units or shares based on information known at the time of
application; anticipated terms of sale to existing tenants; statement as to
whether sales will be permitted to families with minor children; incentives
to tenants for the purchase of the dwelling units; written notice to the
tenants of an exclusive right to purchase the dwelling unit occupied by the
tenant; and the number of tenants that have expressed interest in purchasing
their dwelling unit.  (Amended by Ord. No. 178,632, Eff. 5/26/07.)



 



   (4)   Floor and elevation plans, including indications of common and
private areas, and required exits.



 



   (c)   The following additional information may be required by the
Advisory Agency as a condition of approval:



 



   (1)   Certificate of Housing Compliance Inspection Report as
provided by Section 91.0318 of the Municipal Code, or equivalent report
satisfactory to the Advisory Agency, which report shall detail any violations
of provisions of Chapter IX enacted after such permit was issued and which
are explicitly made applicable to existing structures.



 



   (2)   Building inspection reports (if any such report has already
been submitted to the California Department of Real Estate, a copy of such
report shall be furnished to the City):



 



   (a)   Building component reports indicating conditions and estimated
remaining useful life of the roof, foundation, plumbing, electrical, heating,
air conditioning, other mechanical and structural systems, prepared by a
registered civil or structural engineer, licensed general building
contractor, licensed general engineering contractor or architect;



 



   (b)   Structural pest control report, prepared by a licensed pest
control contractor;



 



   (c)   Acoustical report, indicating (1) the type of construction
between dwelling units and the general sound attenuation characteristics of
such construction, or indicating the level of sound attenuation between
dwelling units, and (2) the feasibility of various levels of improvement,
prepared by a licensed acoustical engineer; and



   (d)   Utility metering reports, if the units of the building are not
individually metered, indicating the feasibility of individual or
submetering, prepared by qualified engineers.



 



   (3)   Any other information, including conditions, covenants and
restrictions, articles of incorporation and by–laws, which the Advisory
Agency deems necessary to determine if the proposed project is consistent
with the Municipal Code.



 



   2.   Residential to Commercial/Industrial Conversion Projects.



 



   a.   A residential to commercial/industrial conversion project shall
comply with the Division of Land regulations in Article 7 of this chapter,
the provisions of this section and other applicable state laws and local
ordinances.



 



   b.   In addition to the information required by other applicable
sections of this Code, the following information shall be submitted at the
time of filing.



 



   (1)   Tenant Information:  Name and address of each tenant in the
existing residential building; rent schedule for eighteen (18) months
preceding the application and relocation assistance plan if any;



 



   (2)   Building plans or other documents containing the following
information pertaining to the project as proposed, certified as to accuracy
by a licensed engineer.



 



   (a)   Description of the features of the type of building and
project, including age, type of construction, the number of separate units
proposed, the square footage of each such unit and of the entire building.



 



   (b)   Parking plan, including the total number of spaces actually
provided and the total number required if different from that actually
provided, dimensions of stalls, aisles, and driveways, locations of columns,
walls, and other obstructions, and location and number of guest parking
spaces.



 



   (c)   The following additional information may be required by the
Advisory Agency as a condition of approval.



 



   (1)   Building component reports indicating condition and estimated
remaining useful life of the roof, foundation, plumbing, electrical, heating,
air conditioning, other mechanical and structural systems, prepared by a
registered civil or structural engineer, licensed general building
contractor, licensed general engineering contractor or architect.



 



   (2)   Site plan, including, buildings, structures, yards, open
spaces, and accessory storage areas and buildings including trash storage
areas.



 



   (3)   Floor and elevation plans, including indication of common and
private areas, and required exists.



 



   (4)   Building inspection reports (if any such report has already
been submitted to the California Department of Real Estate, a copy of such
report shall be furnished to the City)



 



   (5)   Any other information, including conditions, covenants and
restrictions, articles of incorporation and by–laws, which the Advisory
Agency deems necessary to determine if the proposed project is consistent
with the Municipal Code.



 



   3.   All Projects.  No application for tentative or preliminary
parcel map approval of a residential conversion project or a residential to
commercial/ industrial conversion project shall be accepted without adequate
evidence from the applicant that each tenant of the project has received: 
written notice of intention to file a tentative or preliminary parcel map
application at least 60 days prior to the filing of the application and a
written copy of the relocation assistance provisions of Sections 47.06 and
47.07 of this Code.  Any person who becomes a tenant of a residential rental
unit proposed for conversion to a residential or commercial/industrial
condominium, stock cooperative or community apartment project after the date
of the filing of the application shall be given written notice of the
pendency of the application prior to entering into any written or oral rental
agreement.  (Amended by Ord. No. 178,632, Eff. 5/26/07.)



 



   E.   Tenant Notification:



 



   1.   Notification of hearing on tentative map or preliminary parcel
map.  (Amended by Ord. No. 178,632, Eff. 5/26/07.)  In addition to other
notification requirements of this Code, the Department of City Planning shall
give notice of any public hearing on a tentative map or preliminary parcel
map to each tenant in each dwelling unit of the building or buildings
proposed for conversion.



 



   This notice shall be in writing and mailed no less than ten days prior
to the public hearing on the tentative map or preliminary parcel map.



 



   The notice may include a questionnaire, to be completed at the option
of each tenant, regarding the approximate ages and disabilities or handicaps,
if any, of the household members, comments concerning the physical condition
of the building and its various components and characteristics as outlined in
Subparagraph (2) of Paragraph c. of Subdivision 1. of Subsection D. of this
section, and any other information as may be pertinent to the pending
proceedings.



 



   2.   Notification of proposed conversion prior to termination of
tenancy due to the conversion.  Each tenant of a conversion project subject
to this section shall be given 180 days written notice of intention to
convert prior to termination of tenancy due to the conversion or proposed
conversion.  Each person who becomes a tenant of the conversion project
after the date of the 180 days written notice shall be given a copy of the
notice of intention to convert before entering into any written or oral
rental agreement, but shall not be entitled to 180 days written notice prior
to termination of tenancy due to the conversion or proposed conversion. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 178,632, Eff. 5/26/07.)



 



   3.   Residential Conversion Project – Notification of exclusive
right to purchase.  The applicant shall give each tenant of any proposed
residential conversion project written notice of an exclusive right to
contract for the purchase of the dwelling unit occupied by the tenant or
purchase of a share in the corporation entitling the shareholder to enjoy
exclusive occupancy of the unit upon the same or more favorable terms and
conditions than those on which such unit or share will be initially offered
to the general public. The right shall run for a period of not less than 90
days from the issuance of the subdivision public report pursuant to Section
11018.2 of the California Business and Professions Code, unless the applicant
receives prior written notice of the tenant’s intention not to exercise the
right.



 



   Where two or more units are combined pursuant to conditions of
tentative map or preliminary parcel map approval, the notice required by this
Subdivision 3 shall be given to the tenants of the combined units and
priority among tenants shall be determined in an equitable manner. A tenant
who is prevented from purchasing his unit due to combination of units shall
be given a right of first refusal with respect to the comparable unit in the
same residential conversion project, to the extent possible.



 



   F.   Tentative Map And Preliminary Parcel Map Approval:



 



   1.   All tentative maps and preliminary parcel maps filed in
connection with residential or residential to commercial/industrial
conversion projects shall be subject to the Division of Land Regulations
contained in Article 7 of this chapter, except as herein otherwise provided.
All such maps shall be subject to the General Plan and any applicable
specific plan only to the extent that such plan contains a definite statement
of policies and objectives explicitly applicable to conversion projects,
except as otherwise provided in this subsection.



 



   2.   The Advisory Agency shall disapprove a tentative map or
preliminary parcel map for a residential or residential to
commercial/industrial conversion project, if it finds (a) that the map is not
substantially consistent with the applicable density provisions of the
General Plan or specific plans in effect at the time the original building
permit was issued, and (b) the application for map approval is filed less
than five years from the date the original certificate of occupancy for the
building was issued. The Advisory Agency shall disapprove a tentative map or
preliminary parcel map for a residential to commercial/industrial conversion
project where the conversion would be inconsistent with either the existing
zoning pattern or applicable general or specific plan, unless it finds that
there are special circumstances which justify approval of the map. Such
circumstances may exist only with respect to the following facts (1) the
prevailing pattern of residential and commercial/industrial land use in the
vicinity of the project site; and (2) the existing and anticipated need for
commercial/industrial development in the planing area in which the project is
located.



 



   EXCEPTION: This provision shall not apply to any residential or
residential to commercial/industrial conversion project involving buildings
for which a building permit was applied for prior to July 1,1978.



 



   3.   The Advisory Agency shall disapprove a tentative map or
preliminary parcel map for a residential or residential to
commercial/industrial conversion project if it finds that any applicable
general plan or specific plan provision contains a definite statement of
policies and objectives explicitly applicable to conversion projects and the
proposed map is not substantially consistent with such provision.



 



   4.   The Advisory Agency shall disapprove a tentative map or
preliminary parcel map for a residential or a residential to
commercial/industrial conversion project if it finds that there are
uncorrected violations of Chapter IX of the Municipal Code, and that an
adequate plan to correct such violations has not been developed or
accomplished. For purposes of this provision, Chapter IX of the Municipal
Code means the Code in effect when the building permit was issued and other
subsequently enacted regulations explicitly made applicable to existing
structures.



 



   5.   The Advisory Agency shall disapprove a tentative map or
preliminary parcel map for a residential or residential to
commercial/industrial conversion project, if it finds that (a) the building
permit for the building was issued prior to October 1, 1933, and the building
is of unreinforced masonry construction, or (b) the building is more than
three stories in height without an elevator. This provision may be waived
where the Advisory Agency finds that any such condition has been corrected in
conformity with Municipal Code standards.



 



   6.   After considering the following criteria, the Advisory Agency
may approve a tentative map or preliminary parcel map for a residential or
residential to commercial/industrial conversion project, unless it makes both
of the following findings: (1) the vacancy rate of the planning area in which
the property is located is five percent or less, and (2) the cumulative
effect of the rental housing market in the planning area of successive
residential or residential to commercial/industrial conversion projects
(past, present and future) is significant. A finding of significant
cumulative effect shall be based on the following factors: (a) in the case of
residential conversion projects only, the number of tenants who are willing
and able to purchase a unit in the building; (b) the number of units in the
existing residential building prior to conversion; (c) the number of units
which would be eliminated in case conversion occurred in order to satisfy
Municipal Code parking requirements; (d) the adequacy of the relocation
assistance plan proposed by the subdivider; and (e) any other factors
pertinent to the determination. “Vacancy rate” shall refer to the most
current vacancy rate for multiple–family dwelling units as published by the
Department of City Planning in its Semi–Annual Population Estimate and
Housing Inventory, or other estimate or survey satisfactory to the Advisory
Agency. “Planning area” shall refer to those areas established by the
Director of Planning for purposes of community planning pursuant to Section
11.5.6 of the Municipal Code.



 



   G.   Relocation Assistance:



 



   1.   Requirement.  The Advisory Agency shall require, as a
condition of map approval, that the applicant execute and record a covenant
and agreement, in a form satisfactory to the Advisory Agency, binding the
applicant and any successor-in-interest to provide relocation assistance in a
manner consistent with Section 47.06 of this Code.  The covenant and
agreement shall be executed and recorded within ten days after the expiration
of the appeal period, or final approval, whichever is later, for tentative
map or preliminary parcel map approval and a copy provided to each tenant
within five days of recordation.  The covenant and agreement shall run to
the benefit of any eligible tenant, as defined in Subdivision 2. of this
section and shall be enforceable by any eligible tenant or by the City. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 178,632, Eff. 5/26/07.)



 



   2.   Eligible Tenant.  As used in this Subsection G., the term
"eligible tenant" means any tenant who was resident of the property both on
the date of tentative or preliminary parcel map application and the date of
approval of such map, or at any time thereafter, and who does not intend to
purchase a unit in the conversion project.  (Amended by Ord. No. 185,224,
Eff. 12/13/17.)



 



   3.   Special Protection.  An eligible tenant is entitled to
"special protection", as defined in this subsection, if the tenant meets the
definition of "Qualified Tenant" in Section 47.06 of this Code.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 178,632, Eff. 5/26/07.)



 



   4.   Dispute Resolution.  The covenant and agreement specified in
Subdivision 1. of this subsection shall establish an expeditious mechanism to
resolve any disputes among tenants, the applicant and the City concerning the
interpretation or application of the covenant and agreement.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 178,632, Eff. 5/26/07.)



 



   5.   (Deleted by Ord. No. 178,632, Eff. 5/26/07.)



 



   6.   Continued Tenancy Pending Relocation; Eviction; Review
Procedure.  Until each eligible tenant is successfully relocated pursuant to
the provisions of this subsection, the tenant shall be permitted to reside in
the unit presently occupied in the conversion project. There shall be no time
limit for such continued tenancy for each tenant qualified for “special
protection,” as defined in Subdivision 3. of this Subsection G. In all
other cases, the subdivider is not required to consent to continued tenancy
beyond twelve months from the date of tentative map or preliminary parcel map
approval or the date on which the 120–day notice of intent to convert is
given to all tenants, whichever is the later.



 



   A eligible tenant may be evicted, notwithstanding the paragraph above,
for the following reasons only:



 



   a.   The tenant has failed to pay the rent to which the landlord is
entitled.



 



   b.   The tenant has violated an obligation or covenant of the
tenancy, other than the obligation to surrender possession upon proper notice
and has failed to cure such violation after having received written notice
thereof from the landlord.



 



   c.   The tenant is committing or permitting to exist a nuisance in
or is causing damage to, the rental unit or to the appurtenances thereof, or
to the common areas of the property containing the rent unit, or is creating
an unreasonable interference with the comfort, safety, or enjoyment of any of
the other residents of the same or adjacent building.



 



   d.   The tenant is using or permitting a rental unit to be used for
any illegal purpose.



 



   e.   The tenant who had a written lease or rental agreement which
terminated on or after November 10,1979, has refused, after written request
or demand by the landlord, to execute a written extension or renewal thereof
for a further term or like duration with similar provisions and in such terms
as are not inconsistent with or violative of any provision of this subsection.



 



   f.   The tenant has refused the landlord reasonable access to the
unit for the purpose of making repairs or improvements, or for the purpose of
inspection as permitted or required by the lease or by law, or for the
purpose of showing the rental unit to any prospective purchaser or mortgagee.



 



   g.   The person in possession of the rental unit at the end of the
lease term is a subtenant not approved by the landlord.



 



   Any dispute regarding an eligible tenant’s right to continue tenancy
pursuant to this Subdivision 5. may be heard by the Advisory Agency when
application for such review is made by the subdivider or an eligible tenant.
The Advisory Agency may release the applicant from further compliance with a
relocation assistance plan with respect to any eligible tenant where it finds
that the tenant is not entitled to continued tenancy pursuant to the
provisions of this Subdivision 6.



 



   7.   (Deleted by Ord. No. 178,632, Eff. 5/26/07.)



 



   8.   (Deleted by Ord. No. 178,632, Eff. 5/26/07.)



 



   9.   (Renumbered as Subd. 4 by Ord. No. 178,632, Eff. 5/26/07.)



 



   10.   (Deleted by Ord. No. 178,632, Eff. 5/26/07.)



 



   H.   Parking:



 



   1.   Residential Conversion Projects.



 



   a.   The minimum number of resident parking spaces per dwelling unit
shall be one and one–quarter parking spaces per dwelling unit having three
or less habitable rooms and one and one–half parking spaces per each
dwelling unit having more than three habitable rooms. The Advisory Agency may
increase or decrease the required number of parking spaces up to and
including three–quarters of a space per dwelling unit, where it finds that
such modification is consistent with the purposes of this section.



 



   b.   The minimum number of guest parking spaces shall be one quarter
space per dwelling unit for projects containing 50 or fewer units and
one–half space per dwelling unit for projects containing more than 50
units. The Advisory Agency may modify the guest parking requirement up to and
including one–half space per unit where it finds such modification
consistent with the purposes of this section.



 



   c.   The Advisory Agency may require up to one of the required
resident parking spaces per dwelling unit to be provided in a private garage
or carport where it finds that such is reasonable and feasible and consistent
with the purposes of this section.



 



   d.   Where the number of parking spaces required by other provisions
of this code in existence on the date of map application exceeds the minimum
numbers established by this section, the number of parking spaces shall not
be diminished.



 



   e.   In the Central City Area as described in Section 12.21 A.4.(p)
of the Municipal Code, the required parking ratio shall be no less than
therein provided.



 



   f.   Where the total number of required spaces includes a fraction,
the provision of Section 12.21 A.4.(k) of the Municipal Code shall govern.



 



   g.   The design and improvement of parking facilities and areas
shall substantially conform to the provisions of Section 21.21 A.5. and 6. of
the Municipal Code.



 



   2.   Residential to Commercial/Industrial Conversion Projects.



 



   a.   The required minimum number of parking spaces to be provided in
a residential to commercial/industrial conversion project shall be one
parking space for each 200 square feet of that portion of the total floor
area of a building to be used as a medical office, clinic or other medical
service facility and one parking space for each 500 square feet of that
portion of the total floor area in a building to be used for other commercial
or for industrial purposes. “Total floor area”, as used herein, shall
exclude floor area used for automobile parking or driveways, for basement
storage or for rooms housing mechanical equipment incidental to the operation
of buildings.



 



   b.   The Advisory Agency may increase the required minimum number of
parking spaces by not more than seventy five percent (75%), including any
allowance for guest parking, where it finds that such modification is
consistent with the purposes of this section.



 



   c.   Where the number of parking spaces required by other provisions
of this Code in existence on the date of map application exceeds the minimum
numbers established by this section, the number of parking spaces shall not
be diminished.



 



   d.   In the Central City Area as described in Section 12.21 A.4.(p)
of the Municipal Code, the required parking ratio shall be no less than
therein provided.



 



   e.   Where the total number of required parking spaces includes a
fraction, the provisions of Section 12.21 A.4.(k) of the Municipal Code shall
govern.



 



   f.   The design and improvement of parking facilities and areas
shall substantially conform to the provisions of Section 12.21 A.5. and 6. of
the Municipal Code.



 



   I.   Building Reports – Residential Conversion Projects.  The
Advisory Agency may require, as a condition of approval, that the applicant
notify such person who communicates an interest in purchasing a unit or share
that the following reports are available for inspection during normal
business hours, and shall take all reasonable steps to assure that such
reports fully, fairly and accurately describe the conditions reported:



 



   1.   Any report submitted pursuant to Subsection D of this section.



 



   2.   A report concerning compliance with the sound transmission
control standards established by Section 91.4903(h) of the Municipal Code.



 



   3.   Report concerning compliance with the residential energy
conservation standards established by Article 1, Part 6, Title 24 of the
California Administrative Code.



 



   4.   A report concerning compliance with the elevator safety
standards established by Title 8 of the California Administrative Code.



 



   5.   A report concerning compliance with any provision of Chapter IX
of the Municipal Code which the Advisory Agency and the Superintendent of
Building find appropriate for such reporting purpose.



 



   J.   Low And Moderate Income Housing – Residential Conversion
Projects:  Each residential conversion project shall comply with Section
12.39* of the Municipal Code relating to low and moderate income housing.



 



* Section 12.39 was repealed by Ord. No. 180,308 Eff. 12/7/08.



 



   K.   Rental Housing Production:



 



   1.   As a condition of tentative map or preliminary parcel map
approval, the Advisory Agency shall require that the applicant or his
successor-in-interest pay to the City a fee of $1,492 for each unit in a
residential or residential to commercial/industrial conversion project, based
on the number of units in the project prior to conversion.  For the year
beginning July 1, 2008, and all subsequent years, the fee amount shall be
adjusted on an annual basis pursuant to the formula set forth in Section
151.06 D. of this Code.  The adjusted amount shall be rounded to the nearest
$50 increment.  This fee shall be paid prior to approval of the final map by
the City Engineer.  (Amended by Ord. No. 178,632, Eff. 5/26/07.)



 



   2.   All fees collected pursuant to this Subsection K shall be
deposited and held in the Rental Housing Production Account of the Housing
and Community Investment Department, which account is hereby established to
be administered by the Housing and Community Investment Department separately
from all other money expended by the Department. Money in this account shall
be used exclusively for the development of low and moderate income rental
housing in the City, pursuant to guidelines carrying out this purpose
prepared by the Department and approved by resolution of the City Council. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 182,718, Eff. 10/30/13.)



 



 



SEC. 12.95.3.  CONVERSION PROJECTS:  COMMERCIAL/INDUSTRIAL;
COMMERCIAL/INDUSTRIAL TO RESIDENTIAL;



   (Added by Ord. No. 154,960, Eff. 4/3/81.) (Section Renumbered by Ord.
No. 162,832, Eff. 10/26/87.)



 



   A.   Purpose. The purpose of these provisions is to promote greater
individual choice in type, quality, price and location of housing; to provide
for the housing needs of all segments of the population; to provide increased
homeownership opportunities for all segments of the population; to promote
the safety of conversion projects and correction of Building Code violations;
to provide adequate off-street parking; to provide increased opportunities
for the ownership of commercial or industrial real property in the form of
condominiums or stock cooperatives; to assure that the continued use of
buildings for commercial or industrial purposes is substantially consistent
with applicable general and specific plans; and to generally regulate
projects in accordance with applicable general and specific plans and with
the public health, safety and welfare.



 



   B.   Applicability.  The provisions of this section shall apply to
all tentative maps and preliminary parcel maps as to which the Advisory
Agency has not rendered a decision on the date this section becomes
effective. The provisions of any amendment to this section shall only apply
to all tentative maps and preliminary parcel maps as to which the Advisory
Agency has not rendered a decision on the date the amendment becomes
effective, except as otherwise expressly stated in this section. For purposes
of this subsection, a decision is rendered on the date of the Advisory
Agency’s public hearing and announced decision or, where no such decision
is announced, the date of mailing of the Advisory Agency’s letter of
decision and findings to the applicant.



 



   C.   Definitions.  The terms used in this section are defined in
Sections 12.03 and 17.02 of the Municipal Code.



 



   D.   Application Requirements:



 



   1.   Commercial/Industrial to Residential Conversion Projects:



 



   a.   A commercial/industrial to residential conversion project shall
comply with the Division of Land regulations in Article 7 of this chapter,
the provisions of this section and other applicable state laws and local
ordinances.



 



   b.   In addition to the information required by other applicable
sections of this Code, the following information shall be submitted at the
time of filing:



 



   (1)   Building plans or other documents containing the following
information pertaining to the project as proposed, certified as to accuracy
by a licensed engineer:



 



   (a)   Description of the features of the type of building and
project, including age, type of construction, number of dwelling units,
number of habitable rooms per dwelling unit; and



 



   (b)   Site plan, including buildings, structures, yards, open
spaces, accessory storage areas and buildings, including trash storage areas:
and



 



   (c)   Parking plan, including the total number of spaces actually
provided and the total number required if different from that actually
provided; dimensions of stalls, aisles and driveways; location of columns,
walls and other obstructions; total number of covered and uncovered parking
spaces and location and number of guest parking spaces.



 



   (2)   Sales Information.  Anticipated range of sales prices of
individual dwelling units or shares based on information known at the time of
application; and statement as to whether sales will be permitted to families
with minor children.



 



   (3)   Floor and elevation plans, including indication of common and
private areas and required exits.



 



   c.   The following additional information may be required by the
Advisory Agency as a condition of approval.



 



   (1)   Certificate of Housing Compliance Inspection Report as
provided by Section 91.0318 of the Municipal Code, or equivalent report
satisfactory to the Advisory Agency, which report shall detail any violations
of Chapter IX of the Municipal Code in effect at the time the building permit
was issued and any violations of provisions of Chapter IX enacted after such
permit was issued and which are explicitly made applicable to existing
structures.



 



   (2)   Building inspection reports (if any such report has already
been submitted to the California Department of Real Estate, a copy of such
report shall be furnished to the City):



 



   (a)   Building component reports indicating condition and estimated
remaining useful live of the roof, foundation, plumbing, electrical, heating,
air conditioning, other mechanical and structural systems, prepared by a
registered civil or structural engineer, licensed general building
contractor, licensed general engineering contractor or architect;



 



   (b)   Structural pest control report, prepared by a licensed pest
control contractor;



 



   (c)   Acoustical report indicating (a) the type of construction
between dwelling units and the general sound attenuation characteristics of
such construction, or indicating the level of sound attenuation between
dwelling units, and (b the feasibility of various levels of improvement,
prepared by a licensed acoustical engineer; and



 



   (d)   Utility metering reports, if the units of the building are not
individually metered, indicating the feasibility of individual or
submetering, prepared by qualified engineers.



 



   (3)   Any other information, including conditions, covenants and
restrictions, articles of incorporation and by–laws, which the Advisory
Agency deems necessary to determine if the proposed project is consistent
with the purposes of the Municipal Code.



 



   2.   Commercial/Industrial Conversion Projects.



 



   a.   A commercial/industrial conversion project shall comply with
the Division of Land Regulations in Article 7 of this chapter, the provisions
of this section and other applicable State laws and local ordinances.



 



   b.   In addition to the information required by other applicable
sections of this Code, building plans or other documents containing the
following information pertaining to the project as proposed, certified as to
accuracy by a licensed engineer, shall be submitted at the time of filing:



 



   (1)   Description of the features of the type of building and
project, including age, type of construction, number of separate units
proposed, the square footage of each such unit and of the entire building.



 



   (2)   Parking plan, including the total number of spaces actually
provided and the total number required if different from that actually
provided, dimensions of stalls, aisles and driveways; location of columns,
walls, and other obstructions; total number of parking spaces and guest
parking spaces.



 



   c.   The following additional information may be required by the
Advisory Agency as a condition of approval:



 



   (1)   Building component reports, indicating condition and estimated
remaining useful life of the roof, foundation, plumbing, electrical, heating,
air conditioning, other mechanical and structural systems, prepared by a
registered civil or structural engineer licensed general building contractor,
licensed general engineering contractor or architect;



 



   (2)   Site plan, including buildings, structures, yards, open spaces
and accessory storage areas and buildings including trash storage areas;



 



   (3)   Floor and elevation plans, including indication of common and
private areas and required exits;



 



   (4)   Building inspection reports (if any such report has already
been submitted to the California Department of Real Estate, a copy of such
report shall be furnished to the City;



 



   (5)   Any other information including conditions, covenants and
restrictions, articles of incorporation and by–laws, which the Advisory
Agency deems necessary to determine if the proposed project is consistent
with the purposes of the Municipal Code.



 



   E.   Tentative Map And Preliminary Parcel Map Approval:



 



   1.   All tentative maps and preliminary parcel maps filed in
connection with the commercial/industrial to residential or
commercial/industrial conversion projects shall be subject to the Division of
Land Regulations contained in Article 7 of this chapter, except as herein
otherwise provided. All such maps shall be subject to the General Plan and
any applicable specific plan only to the extent that such plan contains a
definite statement of policies and objectives explicitly applicable to such
conversion projects, except as otherwise provided in this subsection.



 



   2.   The Advisory Agency shall disapprove a tentative map or
preliminary parcel map for a commercial/industrial or commercial/industrial
to residential conversion project if it finds that the map is not
substantially consistent with the applicable density provisions of the
General Plan or specific plans in effect at the time the original building
permit was issued.



 



   EXCEPTION:



 



   This provision shall not apply to any commercial/industrial or
commercial/industrial to residential conversion projects for which a building
permit was applied for prior to July 1, 1978.



 



   3.   The Advisory Agency shall disapprove a tentative map or
preliminary parcel map for a commercial/industrial or commercial/industrial
to residential conversion project where such conversion would be inconsistent
with either the existing zoning pattern or applicable general or specific
plan, unless it finds that there are special circumstances which justify
approval of the map. Such circumstances may exist only with respect to the
following facts:  (1) the prevailing pattern of commercial/industrial and
residential land use in the vicinity of the project site; and (2) the
existing and anticipated need for residential development and continued
commercial/industrial development in the planning area in which the project
is located.



 



   4.   The Advisory Agency shall disapprove a tentative map or
preliminary parcel map for a commercial/industrial or commercial/industrial
to residential conversion project if it finds that any applicable General
Plan or Specific Plan provision contains a definite statement of policies and
objectives explicitly applicable to such conversion projects and the proposed
map is not substantially consistent with such provision.



 



   5.   The Advisory Agency shall disapprove a tentative map or
preliminary parcel map for a commercial/industrial or commercial/industrial
to residential conversion project if it finds that there are uncorrected
violations of Chapter IX of the Municipal Code, and that an adequate plan to
correct such violations has not been developed or accomplished. For purposes
of this provision, Chapter IX of the Municipal Code means the Code in effect
when the building permit was issued and other subsequently enacted
regulations explicitly made applicable to existing structures.



 



   6.   The Advisory Agency shall disapprove a tentative map or
preliminary parcel map for a commercial/industrial or commercial/industrial
to residential conversion project if it finds that (a) the building permit
for the building was issued prior to October 1, 1933, and the building is of
unreinforced masonry construction, or (b) the building is more than three
stories in height without an elevator. This provision may be waived where the
Advisory Agency finds that any such condition has been corrected in
conformity with current Municipal Code standards.



 



   F.   Parking.



 



   1.   Commercial/Industrial to Residential Conversion Projects.



 



   a.   The minimum number of resident parking spaces per dwelling unit
shall be one and one–quarter parking spaces per each dwelling unit having
three or less habitable rooms and one and one–half parking spaces per each
dwelling unit having more than three habitable rooms. The Advisory Agency may
increase or decrease the required number of parking spaces up to and
including three–quarters of a space per dwelling unit, where it finds such
modification is consistent with the purposes of this section.



 



   b.   The minimum number of guest parking spaces shall be
one–quarter space per dwelling unit for projects containing 50 or fewer
units and one–half space per dwelling unit for projects containing more
than 50 units. The Advisory Agency may modify the guest parking requirements
up to and including one–half space per unit where it finds such
modification consistent with the purposes of this section.



 



   c.   The Advisory Agency may require up to one of the required
resident parking spaces per dwelling unit be provided in a private garage or
carport where it finds that such is reasonable and feasible and consistent
with the purposes of this section.



 



   d.   There the number of parking spaces required by other provisions
of this code in existence on the date of map application exceeds the minimum
numbers established by this section, the number of parking spaces shall not
be diminished.



 



   e.   In the Central City Area as described in Section 12.21A,4(p) of
the Municipal Code, the required parking ratio shall be no less than therein
provided.



 



   f.   Where the total number of required spaces includes a fraction,
the provision of Section 12.21A,4(k) of the Municipal Code shall govern.



 



   g.   The design and improvement of parking facilities and areas
shall substantially conform to the provisions of Section 12.21 A,5 and 6 of
the Municipal Code.



 



   h.   (Added by Ord. No. 172,571, Eff. 6/3/99.) Notwithstanding any
other provisions of this chapter to the contrary, the required number of
parking spaces in Adaptive Reuse Projects in the Downtown Project Area
pursuant to Section 12.22A26 shall be the same as the number of spaces that
existed on the site as of the effective date of this ordinance, and shall be
maintained and not reduced.  Adaptive Reuse Projects shall otherwise be
exempt from the provisions of Section 12.21A4(m) of this Code.



 



   2.   Commercial/Industrial Conversion Projects.



 



   a.   The required minimum number of parking spaces to be provided in
a commercial/industrial conversion project shall be one parking space for
each 200 square feet of that portion of the total floor area in a building to
be used as a medical office, clinic or other medical service facility and one
parking space for each 500 square feet of that portion of the total floor
area in a building to be used for other commercial or for industrial
purposes. “Total floor area”, as used herein, shall exclude floor area
used for automobile parking or driveways, for basement storage or for rooms
housing mechanical equipment incidental to the operation of buildings.



 



   b.   The Advisory Agency may increase or decrease the required
minimum number of required parking spaces by not more than one hundred
percent (100%) including any allowance for guest parking, where it finds that
such modification is consistent with the purposes of this section.



 



   c.   Where the number of parking spaces required by other provisions
of this code in existence on the date of map application exceeds the minimum
number established by this subsection, the number of parking spaces shall not
be diminished.



 



   d.   Where the total number of required parking spaces includes a
fraction, the provisions of Section 12.21A,4 (k) of the Municipal Code shall
govern.



 



   e.   The design and improvement of parking facilities and areas
shall substantially conform to the provisions of Section 12.21A,5 and 6 of
the Municipal Code.



 



   f.   In the Central City Area as described in Section 12.21,A,4(P)
of the Municipal Code, the required parking ratio shall be no greater than
therein provided.



 



   G.   (None.)



 



   H.   Building Reports – Commercial/Industrial To Residential
Conversion Projects.  The Advisory Agency may require, as a condition of
approval, that the applicant notify any person who communicates an interest
in purchasing a residential condominium or share in a residential stock
cooperative that the following reports are available for inspection during
normal business hours, and shall take reasonable steps to assure that such
reports fully, fairly and accurately describe the conditions reported:



 



   1.   Any report submitted pursuant to Subsection D of this section.



 



   2.   A report concerning compliance with the sound transmission
control standards established by Section 91.4903(h) of the Municipal Code.



 



   3.   A report concerning compliance with the residential energy
conservation standards established by Article 1, Part 6, Title 24 of the
California Administrative Code.



 



   4.   A report concerning compliance with the elevator safety
standards established by Title 8 of the California Administrative Code.



 



   5.   A report concerning compliance with any provisions of Chapter
IX of the Municipal Code which the Advisory Agency and the Superintendent of
Building find appropriate for such reporting purpose.



 



   I.   Commercial / Industrial To Residential Projects – Low and
Moderate Income Housing.  Each commercial/industrial to residential
conversion project shall comply with Section 12.39* of the Municipal Code
relating to low and moderate income housing.



 



* Section 12.39 was repealed by Ord. No. 180,308 Eff. 12/7/08.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 3
SPECIFIC PLAN – ZONING
SUPPLEMENTAL USE DISTRICTS



 




(Title Amended by Ord. No. 138,800, Eff. 6/13/69, Oper. 6/23/69.)




 



 



Section



13.01   “O” Oil Drilling Districts.



13.02   “S” Animal Slaughtering Districts.



13.03   “G” Surface Mining Operations Districts.



13.04   “RPD” Residential Planned Development Districts.



13.05   “K” Equinekeeping Districts.



13.06   Commercial and Artcraft Districts.



13.07   Pedestrian Oriented District.



13.08   “CDO” Community Design Overlay District.



13.09   Mixed Use District.



13.10   Fence Heights District.



13.11   “SN” Sign District.



13.12   "NSO" Neighborhood Stabilization Overlay District.



13.13   “RFA” Residential Floor Area District.



13.14   “CPIO” Community Plan Implementation Overlay District.



13.15   "MPR" Modified Parking Requirement District.



13.16   "HS" Hillside Standards Overlay District.



13.17   "RIO" River Improvement Overlay District.



13.18   "CUGU" Clean Up Green Up Overlay District.



13.19   "RG" Rear Detached Garage District.



13.20   "HCR" Hillside Construction Regulation District.



13.21   Violation.



 



 



SEC. 13.00.  ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.



   (Repealed by Ord. No. 173,277, Eff. 6/25/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)



 



 



SEC. 13.01.  “O” OIL DRILLING DISTRICTS.



 



   A.   Application.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)  The provisions of this section shall apply to the districts where
the drilling of oil wells or the production from the wells of oil, gases or
other hydrocarbon substances is permitted.  The provisions of this section
shall not apply to the property in the M3 Zone, except as specifically
provided here to the contrary.  The provisions of this section shall not
apply to the location of subterranean gas holding areas which are operated as
a public utility and which are regulated by the provisions of Section 14.00
of this Code.



 



   B.   Definitions – For the purpose of this section the following
words and phrases are defined:



 



   “Controlled Drilling Site” shall mean that particular location
within an oil drilling district in an “Urbanized Area” upon which surface
operations for the drilling, deepening or operation of an oil well or any
incidental operation are permitted under the terms of this section, subject
to the conditions prescribed by written determination by the Zoning
Administrator.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)



 



   “Drilling and Production Site in the Los Angeles City  Oil Field
Area” shall mean locations within an oil drilling district in the “Los
Angeles City Oil Field Area” upon which surface operations for the
drilling, deepening or operation of an oil well or any operation incident
thereto, are permitted under the terms of this section, subject to the
conditions prescribed by written determination by the Zoning Administrator.
(Added by Ord. No. 156,166, Eff. 1/24/82.)



 



   “Los Angeles City Oil Field Area” shall mean all land in the City
within the areas identified on the maps in Ordinance No. 156,166 located in
Council File No. 80-3951 and shall include all oil producing zones beneath
those areas but no deeper than the third zone beneath the surface of the
earth.  (Amended by Ord. No. 177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.)



 



   “Nonurbanized Area” shall mean all those portions of the City which
the City Planning Commission or Council has determined will not be
detrimentally affected by the drilling, maintenance, or operation of oil
wells.  In making its determination, the City Planning Commission, or the
Council on appeal, shall give due consideration to the amount of land
subdivided, the physical improvements, the density of population and the
zoning of the district.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)



 



   “Offshore Area” shall mean all property in the City of Los Angeles
which is between the mean high tide line and the outermost seaward City
boundary. (Added by Ord. No. 126,825, Eff. 4/4/64.)



 



   “Oil Well” shall mean any well or hole already drilled, being
drilled or to be drilled into the surface of the earth which is used or
intended to be used in connection with coring, or the drilling for
prospecting for or producing petroleum, natural gas or other hydrocarbon
substances, or is used or intended to be used for the subsurface injection
into the earth of oil field waste, gases, water or liquid substances,
including any such existing hole, well or casing which has not been abandoned
in accordance with the requirements of Article 7 of Chapter 5 of this Code
except that “Oil Well” shall not include “Temporary Geological
Exploratory Core Hole” as defined by Section 12.03 of this Code. (Amended
by Ord. No. 123,618, Eff. 3/1/63.)



 



   “Oil Well Class A” shall mean any oil well drilled, conditioned
arranged, used or intended to be used for the production of petroleum.



 



   “Oil Well Class B” shall mean any oil well drilled, conditioned,
arranged, used or intended to be used only for the subsurface injection into
the earth of oil field waste, gases, water or liquid substances.



 



   “Producing Zone” shall mean a reservoir or series of reservoirs of
sufficient thickness and productivity of hydrocarbons as to form an economic
source of supply and which is segregated from other reservoirs or series of
reservoirs by natural boundaries or barriers to such an extent as to make its
separate development either economically or mechanically desirable in
accordance with good oil field practice. (Added by Ord. No. 147,651, Eff.
10/11/75.)



 



   “Urbanized Area” shall mean all land in the City, except land in
the M3 Zone, and land which has been determined to be “Nonurbanized Area”
by the City Planning Commission or Council or land located in the “Los
Angeles City Oil Field Area”. (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00,
Oper. 7/1/00.)



 



   C.   Status of Areas.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00,
Oper. 7/1/00.)  Where uncertainty exists as to whether or not a particular
area shall be continued as an urbanized area, any person contemplating filing
a petition for the establishment of an oil drilling district, may prior to
its filing, request the City Planning Commission to determine the status of
the area in which the proposed district is to be located.  The Commission
shall refer the request to the Director of Planning for investigation and
upon receipt of his or her report shall determine whether the area is
“Urbanized” or “Nonurbanized”.  The determination of the City
Planning Commission may be appealed to the Council, which may, by resolution,
approve or disapprove the determination.



 



   D.   Requirements for Filing:



 



   1.   Non–urbanized Areas – Each application for the
establishment of an oil drilling district in an non–urbanized area shall
include property having a net area or not less than one acre (excluding
public streets, alleys walks or ways, except that an application may be filed
on property containing less than one acre which is surrounded on all sides by
streets. Such property may consist of one or more parcels of land which must
be contiguous, except that said parcels may be separated by a public alley or
walk.



 



   2.   Urbanized Areas –



 



   (a)   (Amended by Ord. No. 124,937, Eff. 8/2/63.) Each application
for the establishment of an oil drilling district in an urbanized area shall
contain a statement that the applicant has the proprietary or contractual
authority to drill for and produce oil, gas or other hydrocarbon substances
under the surface of at least 75 per cent of the property to be included in
said district.



 



   Any municipal body or official required by law to consider and make a
report or recommendation relative to or to approve or disapprove such
application may request the applicant in writing to submit for inspection
copies of leases and contracts held by applicant in support of such asserted
proprietary or contractual authority. The limitations of time for acting upon
such application shall be suspended from the time of mailing such request
until the documents requested have been submitted.



 



   (b)   (Amended by Ord. No. 112,524, Eff. 1/17/59.) Where said
authority to drill for and produce oil, gas and other hydrocarbons is
pursuant to contract, said application shall be accompanied by a copy
thereof, and said contract shall have attached thereto and referred to
therein by reference the following information for the contracting parties:



 



   (1)   (Amended by Ord. No. 185,205, Eff. 11/22/17.)  A summary of
the provisions of the Los Angeles Municipal Code, as amended, which are
applicable to the district, prepared or approved by the Board of Public Works
or its designee;



 



   (2)   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,363, Eff. 7/29/00, Oper. 7/1/00.) 
Any additional information which the person in charge of Petroleum
Administration finds from time to time is required to give all contracting
parties a reasonably complete knowledge of oil and gas leasing requirements
and procedures in urbanized areas within the City of Los Angeles.



 



   (c)   The district described in said application shall be not less
than 40 acres in area, including all streets, ways and alleys within the
boundary thereof; shall be substantially compact in area; and the boundaries
thereof shall follow public streets, ways or alleys as far as practicable.
(Amended by Ord. No. 112,524, Eff. 1/17/59.)



 



   (d)   Each applicant for the establishment of an oil drilling
district in an urbanized area shall be accompanied by a report from a
petroleum geologist who



 



   (1)   is an active member of the American Association of Petroleum
Geologists or the American Institute of Professional Geologists or



 



   (2)   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.) 
meets the educational and experience requirements to become an active member
of the American Association of Petroleum Geologists or the American Institute
of Professional Geologists, that the production of oil from under the
proposed district would not, in his or her opinion, result in any noticeable
subsidence.  If the City’s authorized person in charge of Petroleum
Administration disagrees in any way with the report, he or she shall submit
in writing his or her own views on the report as part of the report to the
City Planning Commission.



 



   3.   Offshore Areas. Each application for the establishment of an
oil drilling district in an offshore area shall include property having a net
area of not less than 1,000 acres. (Amended by Ord. No. 126,825, Eff. 4/4/64.)



 



   4.   Los Angeles City Oil Field Area (Amended by Ord. No. 156,166,
Eff. 1/24/82.) Each application for the establishment of an oil drilling
district in the Los Angeles City Oil Field Area shall:



 



   (a)   Include property not less than one acre in size, bounded on
each side by a public street, alley, walk or way and such district shall be
wholly contained within the Los Angeles City Oil Field Area.



 



   (b)   Contain a statement that the applicant has the proprietary or
contractual authority to drill for and produce oil, gas or other hydrocarbon
substances under the surface of at least 75% of the total land area of the
property to be included in said district.



 



   Any municipal body or official required by law to consider and make a
report or recommendation relative to or to approve or disapprove such
application may request the applicant in writing to submit for inspection
copies of leases and contracts held by applicant in support of such asserted
proprietary or contractual authority. The limitations of time for acting upon
such application shall be suspended from the time of mailing such request
until the documents requested have been submitted.



 



[Editor's note:  Maps formerly referred to in this section were deleted by
Ord. No. 177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.]



 



   5.   General - All Areas.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff.
7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.) No application for the establishment of an oil
drilling district shall be accepted for filing in the City Planning
Department unless it has first been submitted to and reported on by the
authorized person in charge of Petroleum Administration.  The report shall
consider the propriety of the proposed boundaries of the district, the
desirability of the drill site location and whether or not the exploration
for oil is geologically justified in the district.  The report shall be made
within 30 days of the receipt of the application.  A copy of the report
shall accompany the application when it is filed with the City Planning
Department.



 



   E.   Standard Conditions:



 



   1.   Non–urbanized Areas – Each oil drilling district
established in a non–urbanized area shall be subject to the following
conditions:



 



   (a)   Each district shall contain a net area of one acre or more
which shall be composed of contiguous parcels of land that may be separated
by an alley or walk, except that a district may contain an area of less 
than one acre where it is surrounded on all sides by streets.



 



   (b)   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.) 
Each drilling site in any district shall contain a net area of one acre or
more and shall be composed of contiguous parcels of land which may be
separated only by an alley or walk.  A drilling site may contain less than
one acre of area where it is surrounded on all sides by public or approved
private streets.



 



   Only one oil well Class A may be established or maintained on each acre
of land, except that there may be one oil well Class A on any land surrounded
on all sides by public or approved private streets.  Provided, however, in
determining conditions for drilling pursuant to Subsection H, the Zoning
Administrator may permit surface operations for more than one oil well Class
A in a semi-controlled drilling site where the additional wells are to be
bottomed under adjacent land in a drilling district in lieu of surface
operations.  There shall be no less than one net acre of land in the
combined drill site and production site for each well in a semi-controlled
drilling site.  The Zoning Administrator shall require a site of more than
one acre for each oil well where a larger area is required in the particular
oil drilling district.  The Zoning Administrator may require larger minimum
drilling sites or production areas when reasonably necessary in the public
interest for a particular oil producing section.



 



   Where drilling sites greater than one acre are required and two or more
lessees or oil drilling developers in a block or area have at least one net
acre each, but all lessees or developers do not have the greater area
required for drilling under these regulations, the Zoning Administrator shall
equitably allocate permitted wells among the competing lessees or
developers.  Where necessary, the lessee or developer having control of the
larger portion of the property shall be given preference.  In those
situations outlined above, in addition to the proration required by Paragraph
(d) of this subdivision, the Zoning Administrator shall require that the
lessee or developer who is authorized to drill the well shall offer an
equitable consolidation agreement to the lessee or developer who has not been
permitted to drill.  This consolidation agreement shall contain an offer in
writing, open for acceptance for 30 days, giving the other lessees or
developers a choice of either:



 



   (i)   a lease on terms and conditions agreed upon, or on
substantially the same terms and conditions contained in leases owned by the
applicant; or,



 



   (ii)   a consolidation agreement agreed upon providing that each
lessee or developer shall contribute to the cost of drilling and operation of
the well and share in the production from the well in the proportion that the
area of his property bears to the total area in the drilling unit.



 



   (c)   No public street, alley, walk or way shall he included in
determining the net area within any district or drilling site.



 



   (d)   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.) 
Where the drilling site is so located as to isolate any parcel of land in the
drilling district in such a manner that it could not be joined with any other
land so as to create another drilling site of the area required in the
particular district in which it is located, the Zoning Administrator shall
require, as a condition to the drilling and production on the drilling site
that the owner, lessee or permittee or his or her successor shall pay to the
owners of the oil and gas mineral rights in each isolated parcel, a pro-rata
share of the landowners’ royalty in all of the oil and gas produced from
the drilling site, the share to be in that proportion as the net area of the
isolated parcel is to the total net area of the drilling site plus the area
of all the isolated parcels; provided that the landowners’ royalty shall be
determined in accordance with any existing contracts for payments to the
landowners of the drilling site, but, in no event, as to the owner of the
isolated parcel or parcels, shall it be less than a 1/6th part of the oil and
gas produced and saved from the drilling site.



 



   2.   Urbanized Areas – Each oil drilling district established in
an urbanized area shall he subject to the following conditions:



 



   (a)   Each district shall be not less than 40 acres in area,
including all streets, ways and alleys within the boundaries thereof.



 



   (b)   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.) 
Not more than one controlled drill site shall be permitted for each 40 acres
in any district and that site shall not be larger than two acres when used to
develop a district approximating the minimum size; provided, however, that
where the site is to be used for the development of larger oil drilling
districts or where the Zoning Administrator requires that more than one oil
drilling district be developed from one controlled drilling site, the site
may be increased, at the discretion of the Zoning Administrator when
concurred in by the Board of Fire Commissioners, by not more than two acres
for each 40 acres included in the district or districts.



 



   (c)   (Amended by Ord. No. 147,651, Eff. 10/11/75.)  The number of
oil wells Class A which may be drilled and operated from any controlled
drilling site may not exceed one well to each five acres in the district or
districts to be explored from said site.



 



   Notwithstanding the above, should the City Council determine that an
urbanized oil drilling district contains more than one producing zone, the
City Council may then authorize, by ordinance, the drilling of additional oil
wells Class A, not to exceed one well per five acres for each identified
producing zone, and specify the maximum number of wells to be drilled as the
result of such authorization.



 



   (d)   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.) 
Each applicant, requesting a determination by the Zoning Administrator
prescribing the conditions controlling drilling and production operations, as
provided in Subsection H of this section, must have proprietary or
contractual authority to drill for oil under the surface of at least 75
percent of the property in the district to be explored.



 



   (e)   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.) 
Each applicant or his or her successor in interest shall, within one year
from the date the written determination is made by a Zoning Administrator
prescribing the conditions controlling drilling and production operations as
provided in Subsection H of this section, execute an offer in writing giving
to each record owner of property located in the oil drilling district who has
not joined in the lease or other authorization to drill the right to share in
the proceeds of production from wells bottomed in the district, upon the same
basis as those property owners who have, by lease or other legal consent,
agreed to the drilling for and production of oil, gas or other hydrocarbon
substances from the subsurface of the district.  The offer hereby required
must remain open for acceptance for a period of five years after the date the
written determination is made by a Zoning Administrator.  During the period
the offer is in effect, the applicant, or his or her successor in interest,
shall impound all royalties to which the owners or any of them may become
entitled in a bank or trust company in the State of California, with proper
provisions for payment to the record owners of property in the district who
had not signed the lease at the time the written provisions were made by a
Zoning Administrator, but who accepts the offer in writing within the
five-year period.  Any such royalties remaining in any bank or trust company
at the time the offer expires which are not due or payable as provided above
shall be paid pro-rata to those owners who, at the time of the expiration,
are otherwise entitled to share in the proceeds of the production.



 



   (f)   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.) 
The entire controlled drilling site shall be adequately landscaped, except
for those portions occupied by any required structure, appurtenance or
driveway, and all landscaping shall be maintained in good condition at all
times.  Plans showing the type and extent of the landscaping shall be first
submitted to and approved by the Zoning Administrator.



 



   (g)   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.) 
Each applicant, requesting a determination by a Zoning Administrator
prescribing the conditions controlling drilling and production operations, as
provided in Subsection H of this section, shall post in the Office of Zoning
Administration a satisfactory corporate surety bond (to be approved by the
City Attorney and duplicates to be furnished to him or her) in the sum of
$5,000 in favor of the City of Los Angeles, conditioned upon the performance
by the applicant of all of the conditions, provisions, restrictions and
requirements of this section, and all additional conditions, restrictions or
requirements determined and prescribed by a Zoning Administrator.  No
extension of time that may be granted by a Zoning Administrator or any change
or specifications or requirements that may be approved or required by him or
her or by any other officer or department of the City or any other
alteration, modification of waiver affecting any of the obligations of the
grantee made by any City authority or by any other power or authority
whatsoever shall be deemed to exonerate either the grantee or the surety on
any bond posted pursuant to this section.



 



   (h)   (Amended by Ord. No. 185,205, Eff. 11/22/17.)  If a Zoning
Administrator determines, after first receiving a report and recommendation
from the Board of Public Works or its designee, that oil drilling and
production activities within the district have caused or may cause subsidence
in the elevation of the ground within the district or in the immediate
vicinity, then after consulting with recognized experts in connection with
that problem and with those producing hydrocarbons from the affected area, he
or she shall have the authority to require the involved oil producer or
producers to take corrective action, including re-pressurizing the oil
producing structure or cessation of oil drilling and production.



 



   (i)   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  A
Zoning Administrator may impose additional conditions or require corrective
measures to be taken if he or she finds, after actual observation or
experience with drilling one or more of the wells in the district, that
additional conditions are necessary to afford greater protection to
surrounding property.



 



   3.   Offshore Areas. (Amended by Ord. No. 142,081, Eff. 7/22/71.)
Each oil drilling district established in an offshore area shall be subject
to the following conditions:



 



   (a)   All activities conducted within each such district shall
conform to the spirit and intent of the provisions of Subsection A of Section
12.20.1 of this Code.



 



   (b)   No surface or submarine drilling or producing operations shall
be permitted between the mean high tide line and the outermost seaward City
boundary. Surface drilling or producing operations may be conducted only from
permitted or approved onshore drillsites. Oil and gas accumulations may be
developed by directional or slant drilling beneath any portion of the
submerged land within the district.



 



   (c)   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.) 
Onshore drilling and producing operations utilizing directional or slant
drilling may be approved by a Zoning Administrator only when a showing is
made that production of oil and gas cannot be accomplished from already
approved or permissible sites.



 



   (d)   The number of oil wells Class A which may be drilled into any
offshore drilling district from a single installation or facility onshore
shall not exceed one well to each five acres of district and the installation
and operation of all wells shall meet the requirements of Section 12.20.1.



 



   (e)   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.) 
Each applicant requesting a determination by a Zoning Administrator
prescribing the conditions controlling drilling and production operations, as
provided in Subsection H, shall post in the Office of Zoning Administration a
satisfactory corporate surety bond (to be approved by the City Attorney and
duplicates to be furnished to him or her) in the sum of $50,000 in favor of
the City of Los Angeles, conditioned upon the performance by the applicant of
all of the conditions, provisions, restrictions and requirements of this
section, and all additional conditions, restrictions, or requirements
determined and prescribed by a Zoning Administrator.  No extension of time
that may be granted by a Zoning Administrator on any change of specifications
on requirements that may be approved or required by him or her or by any
other officer or department of the City or any other alteration, modification
or waiver affecting any of the obligations of the applicant made by any City
authority or by any other power or authority whatsoever shall be deemed to
exonerate either the applicant or the surety on any bond posted pursuant to
this section.



 



   (f)   All derricks and other drilling facilities shall be removed
within 30 days after completion or abandonment of the well; and thereafter
any work done on any existing well which requires redrilling or
reconditioning shall be done by temporary or portable equipment which shall
be removed within 30 days after completion of such work.



 



   (g)   Pollution of water and contamination or soiling of the urban
coastline or beaches are prohibited.



 



   4.   Los Angeles City Oil Field Area. (Added by Ord. No. 156,166,
Eff. 1/24/82.) – Each oil drilling district established in the Los Angeles
City Oil Field Area shall be subject to the following conditions:



 



   (a)   The boundary of each district shall follow the center line of
city streets as far as practicable;



 



   (b)   Each district shall include the streets, ways, and alleys
within the boundaries thereof and shall be substantially compact in area;



 



   (c)   The drilling, pumping, redrilling, repairing, maintenance or
other servicing of any new oil well Class A in said district shall be
conducted only on a Drilling and Production Site in the Los Angeles City Oil
Field Area upon which site at least one Class A oil well was (i) in existence
on January 24,1982; and (ii) had not been abandoned in accordance with State
Division of Oil and Gas regulations prior to January 24,1982; and (iii) has a
Los Angeles Fire Department Serial Number, which number was in existence on
January 24, 1982. (Amended by Ord. No. 160,874, Eff. 4/6/86.)



 



   (d)   The number of new oil wells Class A permitted on such a
Drilling and Production Site in the Los Angeles City Oil Field Area shall not
exceed one well to each acre in the District;



 



   (e)   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.) 
Each applicant, requesting a determination by the Zoning Administrator
prescribing the conditions controlling new drilling and production operations
as provided in Subsection H, must have proprietary or contractual authority
to drill for oil under the surface of at least 75% of the total land area of
the property in the district to be explored.



 



   (f)   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.) 
Within one year from the date the written determination is made by a Zoning
Administrator prescribing the conditions controlling drilling and production
operations, as provided in Subsection H, each applicant or his or her
successor in interest shall offer in writing to each record owner of property
located in the oil drilling district who has not joined in the lease or other
authorization to drill, the right to share in proceeds of production from new
wells bottomed in the district upon the same basis as those property owners
who have, by lease or other legal consent, agreed to the drilling for and
production of oil, gas or other hydrocarbon substances from the sub-surface
of the district.  The offer hereby required must remain open for acceptance
for a period of five years after the date the written determination is made
by a Zoning Administrator.  During the period the offer is in effect, the
applicant, or his or her successor in interest, shall impound all royalties
to which the owners or any of them may become entitled in a bank or trust
company in the State of California, with proper provisions for payment to the
record owners of property in the district who had not signed the lease at the
time the written determination was made by a Zoning Administrator, but who
accepts the offer in writing within the five-year period.  Any royalties
remaining in any bank or trust company at the time the offer expires which
are not due or payable as provided above shall be paid pro-rata to those
owners who, at the time of the expiration, are otherwise entitled to share in
the proceeds of the production.



 



   (g)   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.) 
the entire site upon which new oil wells are to be drilled shall be
adequately fenced and landscaped; plans showing the type and extent of the
landscaping shall be first submitted to and approved by the Zoning
Administrator.



 



   (h)   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.) 
Each applicant requesting a determination by a Zoning Administrator
prescribing the conditions controlling drilling and production operations, as
provided in Subsection H, shall post in the Office of Zoning Administration a
satisfactory corporate surety bond (to be approved by the City Attorney and
duplicates to be furnished by him or her) in the sum of $5,000 in favor of
the City of Los Angeles, conditioned upon the performance by the applicant of
all of the conditions, provisions, restrictions, and requirements of this
section, and all additional conditions, restrictions, or requirements
determined and prescribed by a Zoning Administrator.  No extension of time
that may be granted by a Zoning Administrator or any change of specifications
or requirements that may be approved or required by him or her or by any
other officer or department of the City or any other alteration, modification
or waiver affecting any of the obligations of the grantee made by any city
authority or by any other power or authority whatsoever shall be deemed to
exonerate either the grantee or the surety of any bond posted pursuant to
this section.



 



   (i)   (Amended by Ord. No. 185,205, Eff. 11/22/17.)  If a Zoning
Administrator determined after first receiving a report and recommendation
from the Board of Public Works or its designee that oil drilling and
production activities within the district have caused or may cause subsidence
in the elevation of the ground within the district or in the immediate
vicinity, he or she shall have the authority, after consulting with
recognized experts in connection with the problem and with those persons
producing hydrocarbons from the affected area, to require the involved oil
producer or producers to take corrective action, including re-pressurizing
the oil producing structure or cessation of oil drilling and production.



 



   (j)   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  A
Zoning Administrator may impose additional conditions or require corrective
measures to be taken if he or she finds, after actual observation or
experience with drilling one or more of the wells in the district, that
additional conditions are necessary to afford greater protection to
surrounding property.



 



   (k)   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.) 
Any operator of any site within an oil drilling district, approved by the
Zoning Administrator pursuant to Section 12.23C4(c), may apply to the
Department of City Planning for the establishment of fencing and landscaping
requirements.  Once the requirements have been satisfied, the operator shall
be relieved of the restrictions specified in Section 12.23C4(b) and (c). 
Should an operator of such a site in a district desire to redrill or deepen a
Class A oil well, if the oil well was



 



   (i)   in existence on January 24, 1982; and



 



   (ii)   had not been officially abandoned in accordance with State
Division of Oil and Gas Regulations prior to January 24, 1982; and



 



   (iii)   has a Los Angeles Fire Department Serial Number and the
number was in existence on January 24, 1982, that operator shall comply with
the provisions of Subsection H of Section 13.01.  Compliance with the
Determination of Conditions issued shall relieve the operator of the
restrictions specified in Section 12.23C4(b) and (c) of this Code.



 



   F.   Additional Conditions. In addition to the standard conditions
applying to oil drilling districts, the Council, by ordinance, or the Zoning
Administrator may impose other conditions in each district as deemed
necessary and proper.  Where these conditions are imposed by ordinance, they
may be subsequently modified or deleted in the following manner:



 



   (a)   where the condition relates to the location of a drill site
within a district, by amending the ordinance, only after the submission of an
application, the payment of fees, notice, hearing and procedure identical to
that required by this article for the establishment of an oil drilling
district; and



 



   (b)   where the condition does not relate to the location of a drill
site, by amending the ordinance, without the necessity of fees, notice or
hearing.



 



   In its report to the Council relative to the establishment of a
district, the City Planning Commission may recommend conditions for
consideration.  Some of these additional conditions, which may be imposed in
the ordinance establishing the districts or by the Zoning Administrator in
determining the drilling site requirements, and which may be applied by
reference, are as follows: (Para. Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00,
Oper. 7/1/00.)



 



   1.   That all pumping units established in said district shall be
installed in pits so that no parts thereof will be above the surface of the
ground.



 



   2.   That all oil produced in said district shall be carried away by
pipe lines or, if stored in said district, shall be stored in underground
tanks so constructed that no portion thereof will be above the surface of the
ground.



 



   3.   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.) 
That the operator of any well or wells in the district shall post in the
Office of Zoning Administration a $5,000 corporate surety bond conditioned
upon the faithful performance of all provisions of this article and any
conditions prescribed by a Zoning Administrator.  No extension of time that
may be granted by a Zoning Administrator, or change of specifications or
requirements that may be approved or required by him or her or by any other
officer or department of the City, or other alteration, modification or
waiver affecting any of the obligations of the grantee made by any City
authority shall be deemed to exonerate either the grantee or the surety on
any bond posted as required in this article.



 



   4.   That the operators shall remove the derrick from each well
within thirty (30) days after the drilling of said well has been completed,
and thereafter, when necessary, such completed wells shall be serviced by
portable derricks.



 



   5.   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.) 
That the drilling site shall be fenced or landscaped as prescribed by the
Zoning Administrator.



 



   6.   (None)



 



   7.   That, except in case of emergency, no materials, equipment,
tools or pipe used for either drilling or production operations shall be
delivered to or removed from the drilling site, except between the hours of
8:00 A.M. and 8:00 P.M. of any day.



 



   8.   That adequate fire fighting apparatus and supplies, approved by
the Fire Department, shall be maintained on the drilling site at all times
during drilling and production operations.



 



   9.   That no refining process or any process for the extraction of
products from natural gas shall be carried on at a drilling site.



 



   10.   (None)



 



   11.   (None)



 



   12.   (None)



 



   13.   That no more than one well shall be bottomed in each five (5)
acres of the drilling district.



 



   14.   That no new oil wells shall be spudded in after the President
of the United States, or other proper authority, has declared that a state of
war no longer exists.



 



   15.   (None)



 



   16.   (None)



 



   17.   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.) 
That any person requesting a determination by the Zoning Administrator
prescribing the conditions under which oil drilling and production operations
shall be conducted as provided in Subsection H, shall agree in writing on
behalf of him or herself and his or her successors or assigns, to be bound by
all of the terms and conditions of this article and any conditions prescribed
by written determination by the Zoning Administrator; provided, however, that
the agreement in writing shall not be construed to prevent the applicant or
his or her successors or assigns from applying at any time for amendments
pursuant to this Article or to the conditions prescribed by the Zoning
Administrator, or from applying for the creation of a new district or an
extension of time for drilling or production operations.



 



   18.   That all production equipment used shall be so constructed and
operated that no noise, vibration, dust, odor or other harmful or annoying
substances or effect which can be eliminated or diminished by the use of
greater care shall ever be permitted to result from production operations
carried on at any drilling site or from anything incident thereto to the
injury or annoyance of persons living in the vicinity; nor shall the site or
structures thereon be permitted to become dilapidated, unsightly or unsafe.
Proven technological improvements in methods of production shall he adopted
as they, from time to time, become available if capable of reducing factors
of nuisance or annoyance.



 



   19.   Wells which are placed upon the pump shall be pumped by
electricity with the most modern and latest type of pumping units of a height
of not more than sixteen (16) feet. All permanent equipment shall be painted
and kept in neat condition. All production operations shall be as free from
noise as possible with modern oil operations.



 



   20.   All drilling equipment shall be removed from the premises
immediately after drilling is completed, sump holes filled, and derricks
removed within sixty (60) days after the completion of the well.



 



   21.   That, subject to the approval of the Board of Fire
Commissioners, the operators shall properly screen from view all equipment
used in connection with the flowing or pumping of wells.



 



   22.   Upon the completion of the drilling of a well the premises
shall be placed in a clean condition and shall be landscaped with planting of
shrubbery so as to screen from public view as far as possible, the tanks and
other permanent equipment, such landscaping and shrubbery to be kept in good
condition.



 



   23.   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.) 
That not more than two wells may be drilled in each city block of the
drilling district and bottomed under that block.  However, at the discretion
of the Zoning Administrator, surface operations for additional wells may be
permitted in each of the blocks where each additional well is to be
directionally drilled and bottomed under an adjacent block now or hereafter
established in an oil drilling district in lieu of a well drilled on the
adjacent block and under a spacing program which will result in not exceeding
two wells bottomed under each block.



 



   24.   That not more than one (1) well shall be drilled in each city
block of the drilling district; provided, however, that a second well may be
drilled in that block bounded by “L”, Gulf Avenue, Denni Street and
Wilmington Boulevard, only in the event said second well be directionally
drilled or whipstocked so that the bottom of the hole will be bottomed under
the (Gulf Avenue School property located in the block bounded by “L”
Street, Roman Avenue, Denni Street and Gulf Avenue, and in lieu of a well
which might otherwise be permitted to be drilled in said last mentioned block.



 



   25.   That not more than one (1) well may be drilled in each city
block of the drilling district.



 



   26.   That all power operations other than drilling in said district
shall at all times he carried on only by means of electrical power, which
power shall not be generated on the drilling site.



 



   27.   (None)



 



   28.   (None)



 



   29.   That not more than two (2) wells may be drilled in each city
block of the drilling district; provided, however, that two (2) additional
wells may be drilled in each of the following described blocks, (a) the block
bounded by Q Street, Lakme Avenue, Sandison Street and Broad Avenue and (b)
the block bounded by Sandison Street, Lakme Avenue, Broad    Avenue and the
southerly boundary of Tract No. 1934, but only if such additional wells are 
directionally drilled or whipstocked so that they will be bottomed under the
Hancock–Banning High school property, located in the block bounded by
Delores Street, Broad Avenue, Pacific Coast Highway and Avalon Boulevard, in
lieu of the four (4) wells which might otherwise be permitted to be drilled
in the last mentioned block.



 



   30.   (None)



 



   31.   Not more than four (4) controlled drilling sites shall be
permitted in this district, and such sites shall not be larger than two (2)
acres.



 



   32.   The number of wells which may be drilled to any oil sand from
the controlled  drilling site shall not exceed one (1) well to each five (5)
acres in the district, but in no event shall there he more than one (1) well
to each two and one-half (2 l/2) acres.



 



   33.   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.) 
That drilling operations shall be commenced within 90 days from the effective
date the written determination is made by the Zoning Administrator or Area
Planning Commission, or within any additional period as the Zoning
Administrator may, for good cause, allow and thereafter shall be prosecuted
diligently to completion or else abandoned strictly as required by law and
the premises restored to their original condition as nearly as practicable as
can be done.  If a producing well is not secured within eight months, the
well shall be abandoned and the premises restored to its original condition,
as nearly as practicable as can be done.  The Zoning Administrator, for good
cause, shall allow additional time for the completion of the well.



 



   34.   That an internal combustion engine or electrical equipment may
be used in the drilling or pumping operations of the well, and if an internal
combustion engine is used, that mufflers be installed on the mud pumps and
engine so as to reduce noise to a minimum, all of said installations to be
done in a manner satisfactory to the Fire Department.



 



   35.   (None)



 



   36.   That not more than two (2) production tanks shall be installed
for each producing well, neither one of which shall have a rated capacity in
excess of one thousand (1,000) barrels; provided, however, that if in the
opinion of the Administrator it is necessary in order to provide for the
maximum safety of operations or to decrease the number of individual
production tank settings on any property, the Administrator may increase the
number of such production tanks to not more than three (3), having a greater
capacity not to exceed two thousand (2,000) barrels each. The Administrator
shall permit such wash tanks or heating facilities as may appear necessary to
ship or remove production from the premises. The plans for said tank or
tanks, including the plot plan showing the location thereof on the property,
shall be submitted to and approved in writing by the Administrator before
said tank or tanks and appurtenances are located on the premises; and that
said tank or tanks and appurtenances shall be kept painted and maintained in
good condition.



 



   37.   All waste substances such as drilling muds, oil, brine or
acids produced or used in connection with oil drilling operations or oil
production shall be retained in water–tight receptors from which they may
he piped or hauled for terminal disposal in a dumping area specifically
approved for such disposal by the Los Angeles Regional Water Pollution
Control Board No. 4.



 



   38.   Any wells drilled shall be cased tight to bedrock or effective
means satisfactory to the Department of Water and Power used to prevent
vertical movement of ground water.



 



   39.   The applicant shall provide the Department of Water and Power
with a precise plot plan of the drilling plant and roads leading thereto, and
to make such safeguards as the Department deems necessary to assure the
safety of the existing 50” water main which crosses the district involved.



 



   40.   The Department of Water and Power of the City of Los Angeles
shall be permitted to review and inspect methods used in the drilling and
producing operations and in the disposal of waste, and shall have the right
to require changes necessary for the full protection of the public water
supply.



 



   41.   (None)



 



   42.   That the number of wells which may be drilled to any oil sand
shall not exceed one (1) well to each five (5) acres in the district, but in
no event shall there be more than one (1) well to each two and one–half
acres.



 



   43.   That drilling, pumping and other power operations shall at all
times be carried on only by electrical power and that such power shall not be
generated on the controlled drilling site or in the district.



 



   44.   That an internal combustion engine or steam-driven equipment
may be used in the drilling or pumping operations of the well , and, if an
internal combustion engine or steam-driven equipment is used, that mufflers
be installed  on the mudpumps and engine; and that the exhaust from the
steam-driven machinery be expelled into one of the production tanks, if such
tanks are permitted, so as to reduce noise to a minimum, all of said
installations to be found in a manner satisfactory to the Fire Department.



 



   45.   That drilling operations shall be carried on or conducted in
connection with only one well at a time in any one such district, and such
well shall be brought in or abandoned before operations for the drilling of
another well are commenced; provided, however, that the Administrator may
permit the drilling of more than one well at a time after the discovery well
has been brought in.



 



   46.   That all oil drilling and production operations shall be
conducted in such a manner as to eliminate, as far as practicable, dust,
noise, vibration or noxious odors, and shall be in accordance with the best
accepted practices incident to drilling for and production of oil, gas and
other hydrocarbon substances. Proven technological improvements in drilling
and production methods shall be adopted as they may become, from time to
time, available, if capable of reducing factors of nuisance and annoyance.



 



   47.   That all parts of the derrick above the derrick floor not
reasonably necessary for ingress and egress including the elevated portion
thereof used as a hoist, shall be enclosed with fire–resistive
soundproofing material approved by the Fire Department, and the same shall be
painted or stained so as to render the appearance of said derrick as
unobtrusive as practicable.



 



   48.   That all tools, pipe and other equipment used in connection
with any drilling or production operations shall be screened from view, and
all drilling operations shall be conducted or carried on behind a solid
fence, which shall be maintained in good condition at all times and be
painted or stained so as to render such fence as unobtrusive as practicable.



 



   49.   That no materials, equipment, tools or pipe used for either
drilling or production operations shall be delivered to or removed from the
controlled drilling site except between the hours of 8:00 o’ clock a.m. and
6:00 o clock p.m., on any day, except in case of emergency incident to
unforeseen drilling or production operations, and then only when permission
in writing has been previously obtained from the Administrator.



 



   50.   That no earthen sumps shall be used.



 



   51.   That within sixty (60) days after the drilling of each well
has been completed, and said well placed on production, or abandoned, the
derrick, all boilers and all other drilling equipment shall be entirely
removed from the premises unless such derrick and appurtenant equipment is to
be used within a reasonable time limit determined by the Administrator for
the drilling of another well on the same controlled drilling site.



 



   52.   That no oil, gas or other hydrocarbon substances may be
produced from any well hereby permitted unless all equipment necessarily
incident to such production is completely enclosed within a building, the
plans for said building to be approved by the Department of Building and
Safety and the Fire Department. This building shall be of a permanent type,
of attractive design and constructed in a manner that will eliminate as far
as practicable, dust, noise, noxious odors and vibrations or other conditions
which are offensive to the senses, and shall be equipped with such devices as
are necessary to eliminate the objectionable features mentioned above. The
architectural treatment of the exterior of such building shall also be
subject to the approval of the Administrator.



 



   53.   That no oil, gas or other hydrocarbon substances may be
produced from any well hereby permitted where same is located within or
immediately adjoining subdivided areas where ten (10) percent of the lots or
subdivided parcels of ground, within one-half (1/2) mile radius thereof, are
improved with residential structures, unless all equipment necessarily
incidental to such production is countersunk below the natural surface of the
ground and such installation and equipment shall be made in accordance with
Fire Department requirements.



 



   54.   That there shall be no tanks or other facilities for the
storage of oil erected or maintained on the premises and that all oil
products shall be transported from the drilling site by means of an
underground pipe line connected directly with the production pump without
venting products to the atmospheric pressure at the production site.



 



   55.   That not more than two production tanks shall be installed on
said drilling site, neither one of which shall have a rated capacity in
excess of one thousand (1000) barrels; that the plans for said tank or tanks,
including the plot plans showing the location thereof on the property, shall
be submitted to and approved in writing by the Administrator before said tank
or tanks and appurtenances are located on the premises, and that said tank or
tanks and appurtenances shall be kept painted and maintained in good
condition at all times.



 



   56.   That any production tanks shall be countersunk below the
natural surface of the ground and the installation thereof shall be made in
accordance with safety requirements of the Fire Department.



 



   57.   That no refinery, dehydrating or absorption plant of any kind
shall be constructed, established or maintained on the premises at any time.



 



   58.   That no sign shall be constructed, erected, maintained or
placed on the premises or any part thereof, except those required by law or
ordinance to be displayed in connection with the drilling or maintenance of
the well.



 



   59.   That suitable and adequate sanitary toilet and washing
facilities shall be installed and maintained in a clean and sanitary
condition at all times.



 



   60.   That any owner, lessee or permittee and their successors and
assigns, must at all times be insured to the extent of one hundred thousand
dollars ($100,000) against liability in tort arising from drilling or
production, or activities or operations incident thereto, conducted or
carried on under or by virtue of the conditions prescribed by written
determination by the Administrator as provided in Subsection H of this
section. The policy of insurance issued pursuant hereto shall be subject to
the approval of the City Attorney, and duplicates shall be furnished to him.
Each such policy shall be conditioned or endorsed to cover such agents,
lessees or representatives of the owner, lessee or permittee as may actually
conduct drilling, production or incidental operations permitted by such
written determination by the Administrator.



 



   61.   (None)



 



   62.   All onshore drilling and production installations or
facilities shall be removed and the premises restored to their original
conditions after all oil and gas wells have been abandoned, unless the City
Planning Commission determines otherwise. (Amended by Ord. No. 142,081, Eff.
7/22/71.)



 



   63.   (None)



 



   64.   (None)



 



   G.   Description of Districts (Added by Ord. No. 123,825, Eff.
4/4/64.) – The districts within which the drilling for and production of
oil, gas or other hydrocarbon substances is permitted, and the conditions
applying thereto (subject to further conditions imposed by the Administrator
in the drilling site requirements), are described as follows:



 



   1.   Districts in Non-urbanized Areas. (For boundaries of districts
and special conditions applicable thereto, refer to maps and records in City
Planning Office).



 



   2.   Districts in Urbanized Areas. (For boundaries of districts and
special conditions applicable thereto, refer to maps and records in City
Planning Office).



 



   3.   Districts in Offshore Areas. (For boundaries of districts and
special conditions applicable thereto, refer to maps and records in City
Planning Office.) (Added by Ord. No. 130,339, Eff. 7/30/65.)



 



   4.   Districts in the Los Angeles City Oil Field Area. (For
boundaries of such districts and any conditions applicable thereto, refer to
maps and records in the City Planning Office.) (Added by Ord. No. 156,166,
Eff. 1/24/82.)



 



   H.   Drilling Site Requirements.  Any person desiring to drill,
deepen or maintain an oil well in an oil drilling district that has been
established by ordinance, or to drill or deepen and subsequently maintain an
oil well in the M3 Zone within 500 feet of a more restrictive zone shall file
an application in the Department of City Planning on a form provided by the
Department, requesting a determination of the conditions under which the
operations may be conducted.  (Para. Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff.
10/10/00.)



 



   Where the district is in an urbanized or off-shore area, a Zoning
Administrator, after investigation, may deny the application if he finds that
there is available and reasonably obtainable in the same district or in an
adjacent or nearby district within a reasonable distance one or more
locations where drilling could be done with greater safety and security with
appreciably less harm to other property, or with greater conformity to the
comprehensive zoning map.  A Zoning Administrator shall deny an application
for a drill site in an urbanized or off-shore area unless the applicant first
files with the Zoning Administrator in a form and executed in a manner
approved by a Zoning Administrator



 



   (1)   either of the following continuing written offers



 



   (a)   to make the drill site available to competing operators upon
reasonable terms, or



 



   (b)   to enter into or conduct joint operations for a unit or
cooperative plan of development of hydrocarbon reserves upon reasonable
terms, if whichever course offered is determined to be feasible by a Zoning
Administrator, and is subsequently required by him or her in order to
effectuate the above set forth purposes, and



 



   (2)   an agreement to abide by the determination of the Board of
Public Works or its designee if any dispute arises as to the reasonableness
of those terms after first having an opportunity to be heard.  Where the
district is in a nonurbanized area, in the Los Angeles City Oil Field Area,
or in those cases where a Zoning Administrator approves an application in an
urbanized or off-shore area, a Zoning Administrator shall determine and
prescribe additional conditions or limitations, not in conflict with those
specified in the ordinance establishing the district, which he or she deems
appropriate in order to give effect to the provisions of this section and to
other provisions of this chapter relating to zoning.  Where the proposed
operation is in the M3 Zone and is within 500 feet of a more restrictive
zone, a Zoning Administrator shall prescribe conditions and limitations, if
any, as he or she deems appropriate to regulate activity which may be
materially detrimental to property in the more restrictive zone.  All
conditions previously imposed by a Zoning Administrator in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter are continued in full force and effect. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 185,205, Eff. 11/22/17.)



 



   A Zoning Administrator shall make his or her written determination
within 60 days from the date of the filing of an application and shall
forthwith transmit a copy to the applicant.



 



   The determination shall become final after an elapsed period of 15 days
from the mailing of the notification to the applicant, unless an appeal is
filed within that period, in which case the provisions of Section 12.24B
through I concerning the filing and consideration of appeals shall apply.



 



   I.   Permits.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)  No person shall drill, deepen or maintain an oil well or convert
an oil well from one class to the other and no permits shall be issued for
that use, until a determination has been made by the Zoning Administrator or
Area Planning Commission pursuant to the procedure prescribed in Subsection H
of this section.



 



   J.   Termination of District.  Any ordinance establishing the
districts described in this section shall become null and void one year after
the effective date thereof unless oil drilling operations are commenced and
diligently prosecuted within such one-year period; provided, however, a
Zoning Administrator, upon recommendation of the Board of Public Works or its
designee, may extend the termination date for four consecutive additional
periods not to exceed one year each, prior to the termination date of each
period, if written request is filed therefor with the office of the Zoning
Administration setting forth the reasons for said request and a Zoning
Administrator determines that good and reasonable cause exists therefor. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 185,205, Eff. 11/22/17.)



 



   Similarly, a Zoning Administrator, upon recommendation of the Board of
Public Works or its designee, may extend the termination date for three
consecutive additional periods not to exceed one year each, prior to the
termination date of each period, for those districts which are part of a
group undergoing development from one or more common controlled drilling
sites, provided that written request is filed, which sets forth the reasons
for the request therefor and the Zoning Administrator determines that good
and reasonable cause exists therefor, and providing further that drilling
operations have been diligently prosecuted from the common controlled
drilling site during the previous extension period.  Additional one-year
extensions may be made by a Zoning Administrator subject to the approval of
the City Planning Commission.  (Amended by Ord. No. 185,205, Eff. 11/22/17.)



 



   Any ordinance establishing an urbanized oil district shall become null
and void one year after all wells drilled in the district after the effective
date of said ordinance have been abandoned in accordance with legal
requirements, unless a Zoning Administrator determines that the district is
part of a group undergoing development from one or more common, controlled
drilling sites, or on the basis of sufficient proof determines that
production is allocated thereto from an adjacent, adjoining or near by
drilling district or districts under a unit or pooling agreement. In such
cases a Zoning Administrator may if he finds that good and reasonable cause
exists therefor, extend the termination date of the expiring district to
coincide with the termination date of the other district or districts in
which the one or more common controlled drilling sites are located or from
which production is allocated under a unit or pooling agreement. A Zoning
Administrator may terminate any such district when the reasons for such
extension no longer apply. (Amended by Ord. No. 134,135, Eff. 4/28/67.)



 



   Any ordinance establishing a non–urbanized district or district in
the Los Angeles City Oil Field Area shall become null and void one year after
all wells in the district have been abandoned in accordance with legal
requirements, unless the Zoning Administrator, on the basis of sufficient
proof, determines that the district is part of a group in which secondary
hydrocarbon recovery operations are taking place, and that production from an
adjoining or adjacent district is allocated thereto under a unit or pooling
agreement. In such cases, a Zoning Administrator may, if he finds that good
and reasonable cause exists therefor, extend the termination date to coincide
with the termination date of the adjoining or adjacent district in which
secondary recovery operations are being conducted. A Zoning Administrator may
terminate any such district when the reasons for said extension no longer
apply. (Amended by Ord. No. 156,166, Eff. 1/24/82.)



 



   Zoning ordinance, prohibiting drilling of wells on tracts recently
included in residential zone not an unreasonable exercise of police power and
does not deprive lessee which acquired lease prior to zoning of property
without due process.



   Marblehead Land Co. v. City of Los Angeles, 47 Fed. 2d 528.



   Cromwell–Franklin Oil Co. v. Oklahoma City, 14 F.S. 370.



   Beverly Oil Co. v. City of Los Angeles, 40 Cal. 2d 552.



   Pacific Palisades Assn. v. City of Huntington Beach, 196 Cal. 211.



 



   K.   Maintenance of Drilling and Production Sites (Added by Ord. No.
119,399, Eff. 8/3/61.) Effective August 1,1962, the following regulations
shall apply to existing and future oil wells within the City of Los Angeles,
including oil wells operating pursuant to any zone variance, whether by
ordinance or approval of a Zoning Administrator, and all oil wells in an M3
Zone which are within 500 feet of a more restrictive zone:



 



   1.   All stationary derricks, including their floors and
foundations, shall be removed within 30 days after completion or abandonment
of the well (notwithstanding any other provisions of this Code to the
contrary) or by September 1, 1962, whichever occurs later; and thereafter any
work done on any existing well which requires the use of a derrick shall be
done by a temporary or portable derrick. Such temporary or portable derricks
shall be removed within 30 days after the completion of such work.



 



   2.   The motors, engines, pumps and tanks of all such oil wells
shall be sealed so that no offensive or obnoxious odor or fumes can be
readily detected from any point on adjacent property.



 



   3.   The well pumping equipment for such wells shall be muffled or
soundproofed so that the noise emanating therefrom, measured from any point
on adjacent property, is no more audible than surrounding street traffic,
commercial or industrial noises measured at the same point.



 



   4.   The maximum height of the pumping units for such wells shall
not exceed 15 feet above existing grade level.



 



   5.   The site of such wells shall be so landscaped, fenced or
concealed that the well and all of its appurtenant apparatus is reasonably
protected against public entry, observation or attraction.



 



   In addition to any other authority vested in the Zoning Administrator
by Charter and the Los Angeles Municipal Code, a Zoning Administrator may
waive or modify these regulations if the drilling site is physically
inaccessible to a portable derrick, or is located in a mountainous and
substantially uninhabited place, or is located in an M Zone and is surrounded
by vacant land or is adjacent to land used as permitted in the M Zones and if
the enforcement of such regulations would be discriminatory, unreasonable or
would impose a undue hardship upon oil drilling in such locations. A Zoning
Administrator may also waive or modify the 16–foot height limitation where,
because of the amount of liquid to be raised or the depths at which such
fluids are encountered, pumping unit in excess of 16 feet in height is shown
by conclusive engineering evidence to be required. (Amended by Ord. No.
125,877, Eff. 11/29/63.)



 



   All ordinances and parts of ordinances of the City of Los Angeles in
conflict herewith are hereby repealed to the extent of such conflict.



 



 



SEC. 13.02.  “S” ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING DISTRICTS.



 



   A.   Application.  The provisions of this section shall apply to
the districts wherein animal slaughtering is permitted.



 



   B.   Conditions.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)  In the ordinance establishing an animal slaughtering district, the
Council may impose conditions as it deems necessary and proper.  In its
report to the Council relative to the establishment of a district, the City
Planning Commission may suggest conditions for consideration.



 



   C.   (Initiative Ordinance No. 10,999, as amended by Ordinance No.
36,675, (N.S.) repealed by voters April 5, 1977).



 



   D.   Other Districts.  In addition to the districts established by
Subsection C. of this section, other districts within which animal
slaughtering is permitted and the conditions applying thereto shall be
subject to the approval of development plans by the Administrator.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.)



 



   1.   (Deleted by Ord. No. 177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.)



 



   E.   Development Plans.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00,
Oper. 7/1/00.)  Prior to the erection or enlargement of any building in any
animal slaughtering district and prior to the development of an animal
slaughtering plant in a new district established in accordance with the
provisions in this section, plans for the use shall first be submitted to and
approved by the Zoning Administrator.  In approving the plans, the Zoning
Administrator may require changes and additional improvements in connection
with the proposed development as he or she deems necessary in order to give
effect to the provisions of this section and to other provisions of this
chapter relating to zoning, and which are not in conflict with the conditions
specified in the ordinance establishing the district. Any determination by
the Zoning Administrator may be appealed to the Area Planning Commission as
provided for in Section 12.24B through I.



 



   F.   Permits – No permit shall be issued for the development of an
animal slaughtering plant, or for the erection, enlargement or maintenance of
buildings for animal slaughtering purposes, and no person shall perform any
such development or construction work, except in full compliance with plans
approved by the Administrator as herein provided.



 



 



SEC. 13.03.  “G” SURFACE MINING OPERATIONS DISTRICTS.



   (Title and Sec. Amended by Ord. No. 173,106, Eff. 3/5/00.)



 



   A.   Purpose and Objectives.  The City recognizes that the
extraction of Minerals is essential to the continued economic well-being of
the City and to the needs of society.



 



   It is the purpose of this section to:



 



   Establish reasonable and uniform limitations, safeguards, and controls
in the City for the future production of Minerals to safeguard the public
interest;



 



   Permit production in all Districts irrespective of the regulations of
the Comprehensive Zoning Plan;



 



   Provide for the Reclamation of Mined Lands in order to prevent or
minimize adverse effects on the environment and to protect the public health
and safety;



 



   Recognize that Surface Mining Operations take place in diverse areas
where the geologic, topographic, climatic, biological, and social
considerations are significantly different;



 



   Recognize that Reclamation to return Mined Lands to a usable condition
which is readily adaptable for alternative land uses are significantly
different and that their specifications may vary accordingly;



 



   Ensure the continued availability of important Mineral resources, while
regulating Surface Mining Operations as required by the Act;



   Effect practices which will provide for more economic conservation and
production of Minerals; and



 



   Take into consideration the surface use of land, as such uses are
indicated by:



 



   The value and character of the existing improvements within 500 feet of
Districts where production is permitted;



 



   The desirability of the area for residential, recreation, watershed,
wildlife, aesthetic enjoyment, or other uses; or



 



   Other factors directly relating to the public health, comfort, safety,
and welfare in Districts.



 



   When the provisions of this section are more restrictive than the
correlative state provisions, the provisions of this section shall control.



 



   B.   Definitions.  The following definitions shall apply to this
section:



 



   Abandonment of Operation. Failure to conduct Surface Mining Operations,
either under Permit or as a Vested right, for a period of nine consecutive
months.



 



   Act.  The Surface Mining and Reclamation Act (SMARA) of 1975 (Public
Resources Code Section 2710 et seq.), as amended; Public Resources Code
Section 2207 relating to annual reporting requirements; and State Board
regulations for Surface Mining Operations and Reclamation practice
(California Code of Regulations [CCR], Title 14, Division 2, Chapter 8,
Subchapter 1, Sections 3500 et seq.)



 



   Borrow Pit.  An excavation created by Surface Mining Operations of
rock, unconsolidated geologic deposits, or soil to provide material (Borrow)
for fill elsewhere.



 



   Commission.  (Added by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.) Commission
shall mean the City Planning Commission.



 



   Completed Operations (Completion of Operations). When all rock and
gravel in commercial quantities is entirely extracted, produced, and removed
from a property within a District, or the operations allowed by Permit are
Completed, whichever occurs first.



 



   District. Any Surface Mining Operations District established pursuant
to the provisions of this section.



 



   Exploration. The search for Minerals by geological, geophysical,
geochemical or other techniques, including but not limited to sampling,
assaying, drilling, or other surface or underground works needed to determine
the type, extent, or quality of Minerals present.



 



   Idle.  Mineral production, with the intent to resume those Surface
Mining Operations at a future date.



 



   Mined Lands. The surface, subsurface, and ground water of an area in
which Surface Mining Operations will be, are being, or have been conducted,
including private ways and roads appurtenant to any such area; land
excavations; workings; Mining Waste; and areas in which structures,
facilities, equipment, machines, tools, or other materials or property which
result from, or are used in, Surface Mining Operations are located.



 



   Mineral.  Any naturally occurring chemical element or compound or
groups of elements and compounds formed from inorganic processes and organic
substances, including but not limited to coal, peat, and bituminous rock, but
excluding geothermal resources, natural gas, and petroleum.  Minerals shall
specifically include rock, sand, gravel, aggregate, and clay.



 



   Mining Waste. The residual of soil, rock, Mineral, liquid, vegetation,
equipment, machines, tools, or other matters or property directly resulting
from or displaced by Surface Mining Operations.



 



   Operator. Any Person who is engaged in Surface Mining Operations or who
contracts with others to conduct Surface Mining Operations on his or her
behalf, except a Person who is engaged in Surface Mining Operations as an
employee with wages as his or her sole compensation.



 



   Overburden. Soil, rock, or other Minerals that lie above a natural
Mineral deposit or in between Mineral deposits before or after their removal
by Surface Mining Operations.



 



   Owner. The holder of fee title to property in a District, and lessees,
Permittees, assignees, or successors in interest to the holder of fee title.



 



   Permit. Any formal authorization from, or approval by, a lead agency,
the absence of which would preclude Surface Mining Operations.



 



   Permittees.  Holder of a permit.



 



   Person. In addition to the definition contained in Section 11.01 of
this Code, Person shall include any city, county, district, or the state of
California, or any department or agency of and of them.



 



   Prospecting.  Exploration.



 



   Reclamation.  The combined process of land treatment that minimizes
water degradation, air pollution, damage to aquatic or wildlife habitat,
flooding, erosion, and other adverse effects from Surface Mining Operations,
including adverse surface effects incidental to underground mines, so that
Mined Lands are reclaimed to a usable condition which is readily adaptable
for alternative land uses and create no danger to public health or safety. 
The processes may extend to affected lands surrounding Mined Lands and may
require backfilling, grading, resoiling, revegetation, soil compaction,
stabilization, and/or other measures.



 



   SMARA.  The Surface Mining and Reclamation Act of 1975, as amended.
The Act.



 



   State Board.  The state Mining and Geology Board in the Department of
Conservation, State of California.



 



   State Geologist.  The individual designated pursuant to Section 677 of
the California Public Resources Code or any amendment to that Code.



 



   Stream Bed Skimming.  Excavation of sand and gravel from stream bed
deposits above the mean summer water level or stream bottom, whichever is
higher.



 



   Surface Mining (Operations).  All or any part of the process involved
in the mining, quarrying, and/or excavating of Minerals on Mined Lands by
removing Overburden and mining directly from the Mineral deposits; open pit
mining of materials naturally exposed; mining by auger method, dredging, and
quarrying; or surface work incidental to an underground mine.  Surface
Mining Operations shall also include, but are not limited to: processing of
Minerals; in place distillation, retorting, or leaching; the production and
disposal of Mining Wastes; Prospecting and exploratory activities; Borrow
Pitting; Streambed Skimming; and segregation and stockpiling of mined
Minerals and the recovery of same.



 



   Vested.  A project that diligently commenced Surface Mining Operations
and incurred substantial liabilities for work and materials, prior to January
1, 1976, in good faith and reliance upon an authorization, if one was
required.  Expenses incurred in obtaining the enactment of an ordinance or
issuance of an authorization relating to a particular Surface Mining
Operation shall not be deemed liabilities for work or materials.



 



   C.   Establishment of Districts.



 



   1.   The provisions of this section shall apply to Districts where
Surface Mining Operations are Permitted.  The Council may establish new
Surface Mining Districts and alter the boundaries of Districts now or
hereafter established, provided they are consistent with any existing Surface
Mining Operations Permits.



 



   2.   For the boundaries of Districts, see the maps on file in the
Planning Department.



 



   D.   Permits.



 



   1.   A Permit for Surface Mining Operations shall be issued only for
property located in a Surface Mining District.



 



   2.   No Permit shall be required for those Persons who have obtained
a Vested right to continue Surface Mining Operations prior to January 1,
1976.  However, no substantial change may be made in the Surface Mining
Operation without securing a new Permit.  These Surface Mining Operations
shall be subject to those limitations set forth in Subdivision 4 of this
subsection, and any conditions imposed by the City Planning Commission
(“Commission”) or Council on any pre-existing Permit.



 



   3.   No Person shall engage in Surface Mining Operations without
having obtained a Permit issued by the Commission or Council to engage in
Surface Mining Operations, approval of a Reclamation plan, and approved
financial assurances for Reclamation.



 



   4.   All Surface Mining Operations, whether under Permit or Vested,
shall be conducted subject to the following conditions:



 



   (a)   All equipment used in Surface Mining Operations shall be
constructed, maintained, and operated in such a manner as to eliminate, as
far as practicable, noise, vibration, odor, smoke, dust, and the like, which
are injurious or annoying to Persons living or working in the vicinity.



 



   (b)   No Surface Mining Operations shall be Permitted closer than 50
feet to the boundary of a District; closer than 500 feet to any residentially
zoned property unless a landscaped berm is constructed and maintained along
the property line, in which case the setback may be 50 feet; closer than 50
feet to the boundary of an adjoining property, unless Surface Mining
Operations are Permitted on the adjoining property, in which case the
property may be excavated to the property line with the written consent of
the adjacent Owner; or closer than 50 feet to a Street (including an alley or
walk), Highway, or freeway.  If the Commission or Council finds that these
criteria would be impracticable due to the small extent of the District,
economically infeasible, or not required by the Surface Mining Operation, the
Commission or Council may waive these requirements in whole or in part.



 



   (c)   No Surface Mining Operations from an open pit shall be
Permitted which creates a final perimeter slope steeper than one foot
horizontal to one foot vertical.



 



   (d)   Surface Mining Operations shall be conducted in accordance
with applicable standards of the Regional Water Quality Control Board and/or
any other agency with jurisdiction over water quality



 



   (e)   Mined Lands shall be enclosed along their exterior by a fence,
wall, landscaping, berm, or combination of these features, which shall screen
the Surface Mining Operations from adjoining property.  Enclosures shall be
designed, constructed, and maintained to be consistent with the Flood Hazard
Management Specific Plan.  If the Commission determines that the enclosure
would be impracticable because of the location of the Mined Lands in the bed
or flood channel of a wash or water course, or because one or more boundaries
are located immediately adjacent to M2 or less restrictively zoned property,
this requirement may be waived by the Commission.



 



   (f)   Whenever production on any Property is Abandoned or Surface
Mining Operations Completed, all plants, buildings, structures (except
fences), and equipment shall be entirely removed from the property, and all
stockpiles shall be removed or backfilled into the pit within one year of
Abandonment of Operations or completion of Surface Mining Operations.  This
provision shall not apply to any plants, buildings, structures, or equipment
whenever any rock and gravel or other Minerals are available in the same
District from other properties owned by the Operator which is processing by
or through any of these plants, buildings, structures, or equipment.



 



   (g)   No Surface Mining Operations shall be conducted on any
property except between the hours of 6 a.m. and 8 p.m., except in case of an
emergency or whenever any reasonable or necessary repairs to equipment are
required to be made. Surface Mining Operations in an M-3 zone and more than
1,200 feet from any residential use may be conducted between the hours of 5
a.m. and 10 p.m.



 



   (h)   Every Operator, before commencing Surface Mining Operations
within any District, shall be insured to the extent of $500,000 against
liability arising from Surface Mining Operations or activities incidental to
them.  The insurance shall be kept in full force and effect during the
period of Surface Mining Operations, including Reclamation.



 



   (i)   In granting Surface Mining Operations Permits, the Commission
or Council:



 



   (1)   Shall impose other and further conditions and limitations
regarding Surface Mining Operations as are set forth in the General Plan and
any applicable specific plans.  Special emphasis shall be given to
applicable community plans.



 



   (2)   Shall impose other and further conditions as are authorized by
the Act, are authorized by policies adopted by the State Board, or which are
necessary for the public health, safety, and welfare.



 



   (3)   May impose other conditions to address the circumstances of
any individual District or its surroundings.  In the case of conflicts
between the conditions of this section and those of Subparagraphs (1) and (2)
above, the more restrictive shall control.



 



   E.   Application.  An application for a Permit to conduct Surface
Mining Operations shall contain at a minimum the following information:



 



   1.   Site Analysis:



 



   (a)   A comprehensive soils engineering and engineering geologic
investigation report prepared by a registered civil engineer and a certified
engineering geologist, who shall not be employees of the applicant.  The
report shall indicate the type and features of Overburden and Minerals
expected to be extracted and Mining Waste generated by the proposed Surface
Mining Operations, and recommendations relative to setbacks, slopes, and
excavations.



 



   (b)   A geographic report which shall include a recent aerial
photograph of the site of the proposed Surface Mining Operations, and a map
or maps and notes which illustrate the following:



 



   (1)   Property lines and lease lines, including a legal description
of the site.



 



   (2)   The existing topography of the site and land within 500 feet
of the site, and any structures, watercourses, levees, drainage facilities,
utility easements and facilities, roads, and driveways existing within this
area.



 



   (3)   The location and condition of any Abandoned pits and
previously mined areas on the site.



 



   (4)   Any other information that may be required to adequately
characterize the site.



 



   2.   Operations Analysis:



 



   (a)   A description of the proposed Surface Mining Operations in all
of its phases.  The document shall include the following:



 



   (1)   A phasing plan and schedule showing the approximate starting
date, the proposed increments of extraction, and the sequence in which these
increments will be accomplished.



 



   (2)   A map of the areas to be excavated and typical cross sections
of slopes to be formed or modified.



 



   (3)   The depth of all proposed excavations.



 



   (4)   The location of all proposed structures, including processing
plants and appurtenant equipment and fences, and their various relocation
sites, where these facilities are proposed to be relocated during the Permit
period.



 



   (5)   Existing vegetation.



 



   (6)   Landscaping to be provided, if any, in addition to that
indicated on the Reclamation plan.



 



   (7)   Details of plans for storage of Overburden and Mining Waste,
including maps showing areas anticipated to be used for storage.



 



   (8)   Proposed points for ingress and egress, haul roads, driveways,
and parking areas on the site.



 



   (b)   A drainage and erosion control plan.  This  document shall
illustrate the following:



 



   (1)   The location and approximate depth of proposed settling
basins, desilting ponds, recycling ponds, and other bodies of water.  Where
these facilities are proposed to be relocated over the course of the life of
the Permit, their various proposed locations shall be shown.



 



   (2)   The historic groundwater level and anticipated annual
fluctuation of water levels in all areas to be excavated.



 



   (3)   Methods to be taken for the disposition of drainage and for
the control of erosion and sedimentation.



 



   (4)   Provisions to be taken for the conservation and protection of
groundwater.



 



   (5)   Approvals obtained or required from the appropriate Regional
Water Quality Control Board.



 



   (6)   Any other information that may be required to adequately
characterize drainage and erosion.



 



   (c)   A vehicular access plan.  This document shall illustrate the
following:



 



   (1)   The points of ingress and egress to the site; the Streets and
Highways to be used by vehicles going to and coming from the site; and the
type, size, and number of vehicles anticipated on a daily basis.



 



   (2)   Minimizing or precluding additional vehicular traffic over
local residential Streets.



 



   (d)   Any other information that may be required to adequately
characterize vehicular access.



 



   3.   Reclamation Plan:



 



   (a)   If portions of the information and documentation is included
in the site analysis and/or operations analysis, the Reclamation plan may
refer to the site analysis and/or operations analysis.  The Reclamation plan
shall include:



 



   (1)   The names and addresses of the Operator.



 



   (2)   The names and addresses of each Owner of any interest in the
site on which Surface Mining Operations are or will be operated, the names
and addresses of any Persons designated by the Operator as his agents for the
service of process, and the name and address of the managing employee.



 



   (3)   The anticipated quantity and type of Minerals to be extracted.



 



   (4)   The estimated time schedules for initiation and termination of
Surface Mining Operations.  An Operation under a Vested right shall also
include a description of Surface Mining Operations occurring subsequent to
January 1, 1976, including the type and quantity of Minerals extracted and
location and depth of the surface drilling operations.



 



   (5)   The maximum anticipated depth of Surface Mining Operations.



 



   (6)   The size and legal description of lands that will be affected
by the anticipated Surface Mining Operation (affected lands shall include as
a minimum all land within 500 feet of the Surface Mining Operation); a map
that includes the boundaries and topographic details of these lands; a
description of the general geography of the area; a detailed report of the
geology and hydrology of the area in which Surface Mining Operations are to
be conducted; the location of all streams, roads, railroads, and utility
easements and facilities within and adjacent to these lands; the location of
all proposed access roads to be constructed in conducting these Surface
Mining Operations; and the names and addresses of the Owners of all surface
interests and Mineral interests in the lands.



 



   (7)   A description of the anticipated Surface Mining Operations and
an estimated time schedule showing anticipated completion of each segment of
these Surface Mining Operations, so that Reclamation can be initiated at the
earliest possible time on those portions of the Mined Lands that will not be
subject to further disturbance by the Surface Mining Operations.



 



   (8)   A description of the proposed use or potential uses of the
Mined Lands after Reclamation; the consent of the Owner to the Reclamation
and proposed use; and evidence that all Owners of a possessory interest in
the land have been notified of the proposed use or potential uses.



 



   (9)   A description of the manner in which Reclamation of the land,
adequate for the proposed use or potential uses, will be accomplished,
including:



 



   (i)   The manner in which contaminants will be controlled and Mining
Waste will be disposed of.



 



   (ii)   The manner in which rehabilitation of affected stream
channels and stream banks to a condition minimizing erosion and sedimentation
will occur.



 



   (iii)   A topographic map showing final contours of the property
after Reclamation.



 



   (iv)   A diagram showing how Reclamation will be coordinated with
the Surface Mining Operations.



 



   (v)   A plan showing the types and location of revegetation to be
used as part of the Reclamation.



 



   (vi)   A ground water hydrology plan and a surface water drainage
plan.



 



   (vii)   An estimate of the cost of Reclamation.



 



   (viii)   An assessment of the effect the proposed Reclamation
activity may have on future mining in the area.



 



   (ix)   The Person submitting a Reclamation plan shall prepare and
sign a statement accepting responsibility for reclaiming the Mined Lands in
accordance with the Reclamation plan.  This statement shall be kept by the
Department of City Planning (“Department”) in the Operator’s permanent
record. Upon sale or transfer of the Surface Mining Operation, the new
Operator shall prepare and submit a signed statement of responsibility to the
Department for placement in the permanent record.



 



   (x)   The Reclamation plan shall be applicable to a specific piece
of property or properties; shall be based upon the character of the
surrounding area and characteristics of the property such as type of
Overburden, soil stability, topography, geology, climate, stream
characteristics, and principal Mineral commodities; and shall establish
site-specific criteria for evaluating compliance with the approved
Reclamation plan, including topography, revegetation, and sediment and
erosion control.



 



   (xi)   The environmental setting of the site of Operations and the
effect that possible alternate reclaimed site conditions may have upon the
existing and future uses of surrounding lands.



 



   (xii)   The impact on the public health and safety, giving
consideration to the degree and type of present and probable future exposure
of the public to the site.



 



   (xiii)   The designed steepness and proposed treatment of Mined
Lands’ final slopes shall take into consideration the physical properties
of the slope material, its probably maximum water content, landscaping
requirements, and other factors.  In all cases, Reclamation plans shall
specify slope angles flatter than the critical gradient for the type of
material involved. Whenever final slopes approach the critical gradient for
the type of material involved, an engineering analysis of slope stability
shall be required.  Special emphasis shall be placed on slope stability and
design when public safety or adjacent property may be affected.



 



   (xiv)   Areas mined to produce additional materials for backfilling
and grading, as well as settlement of filled areas.  Where ultimate site
uses include roads, building sites, or other improvements sensitive to
settlement, the Reclamation plan shall include compaction of the fill
materials in conformance with Section 91 of the Municipal Code.



 



   (xv)   Disposition of old equipment.



 



   (xvi)   Temporary stream or watershed diversions.



 



   (xvii)   All Reclamation plans shall comply with the Act.
Reclamation plans approved after January 15, 1993; Reclamation plans for
proposed new Surface Mining Operations; and any substantial amendments to
previously approved Reclamation plans shall also comply with performance
standards of the Act.



 



   (xviii)   Any other information that may be required to adequately
characterize the Reclamation.



 



   (b)   Time for Performance.



 



   (1)   Reclamation activities shall be initiated at the earliest
possible time on those portions of the Mined Lands that will not be subject
to further disturbance.



 



   (2)   Interim Reclamation may be required for Mined Lands that have
been disturbed and that may be disturbed again in future Surface Mining
Operations.



 



   (3)   Phasing:



 



   (i)   Reclamation may be done on an annual basis, in stages
compatible with continuing Surface Mining Operations, or on completion of all
excavation, removal, or fill, as approved by the Commission or Council.



 



   (ii)   Each phase of Reclamation shall be specifically described in
the Reclamation plan, and shall include the beginning and ending dates for
each phase, all Reclamation activities required, criteria for measuring
completion of specific Reclamation activities, and estimated costs for each
phase of Reclamation.



 



   (4)   The Reclamation plan shall be implemented no later than six
months after Surface Mining Operations are Completed, or a Permit or Vested
right to conduct surface Mining Operations has been Abandoned.



 



   (c)   Financial Assurances.



 



   (1)   To ensure that Reclamation will proceed in accordance with the
approved Reclamation plan, the City shall require as a condition of approval
financial assurances which will be released upon satisfactory performance. 
The applicant may pose security in the form of a surety bond, trust fund,
irrevocable letter of credit from an accredited financial institution, or
other method satisfactory to the City Attorney and State Board as specified
in state regulations; and which the City reasonably determined is adequate to
perform Reclamation in accordance with the Surface Mining Operation’s
approved Reclamation plan.  Financial assurances shall be made payable to
the City of Los Angeles and the state Department of Conservation.



 



   (2)   Financial assurances shall be required to ensure compliance
with elements of the Reclamation plan, including but not limited to
revegetation and landscaping requirements, restoration of aquatic or wildlife
habitat, restoration of water bodies and water quality, slope stability and
erosion and drainage control, disposal of hazardous materials, and other
measures if necessary.



 



   (3)   Cost estimates for financial assurances shall be submitted to
the Department for review and approval prior to the Operator securing
financial assurances.  The Director shall forward a copy of the cost
estimates, together with any documentation received supporting the amount of
cost estimates, to the state Department of Conservation for review.  If the
state Department of Conservation does not comment within 45 days of receipt
of these estimates, it shall be assumed that the cost estimates are adequate,
unless the City has reason to determine that additional costs may be
incurred. The Director shall have the discretion to approve the financial
assurance if it meets the requirements of this section and the Act.



 



   (4)   The amount of the financial assurance shall be based upon the
estimated costs of Reclamation for the years or phases stipulated in the
approved Reclamation plan, including any maintenance of reclaimed areas as
may be required, subject to adjustment for the actual amount required to
reclaim lands disturbed by Surface Mining Operations in the upcoming year. 
Cost estimates should be prepared by a California registered Professional
Engineer and/or other similarly licensed and qualified professionals retained
by the Operator and approved by the Director.  The estimated amount of the
financial assurance shall be based on an analysis of physical activities
necessary to implement the approved Reclamation plan, the unit costs for each
of these activities, the number of units of each of these activities, and the
actual administrative costs.  Financial assurances to ensure compliance with
revegetation, restoration of water bodies, restoration of aquatic or wildlife
habitat, and any other applicable element of the approved Reclamation plan
shall be based upon cost estimates that include but may not be limited to
labor, equipment, materials, mobilization of equipment, administration, and
reasonable profit by a commercial Operator other than the Permittee.  A
contingency factor of ten percent shall be added to the cost of financial
assurances.



 



   (5)   In projecting the costs of financial assurances, it shall be
assumed without prejudice or insinuation that the Surface Mining Operation
could be Abandoned by the Operator, and consequently, the City or state
Department of Conservation may need to contract with a third party commercial
company for Reclamation of the site.



 



   (6)   The financial assurances shall remain in effect for the
duration of the Surface Mining Operation and any additional period until
Reclamation is Completed,  including any maintenance required.



 



   (7)   The amount of financial assurances required of a Surface
Mining Operation for any one year shall be adjusted annually to account for
new lands disturbed by Surface Mining Operations, inflation, and Reclamation
of lands accomplished in accordance with the approved Reclamation plan. The
financial assurances shall include estimates to cover Reclamation for
existing conditions and anticipated activities during the upcoming year,
excepting that the Permittee may not claim credit for Reclamation scheduled
for completion during the coming year.



 



   (8)   Revisions to financial assurances shall be submitted to the
Director each year prior to the anniversary date for approval of the
financial assurances.  The financial assurance shall cover the cost of
existing disturbance and anticipated activities for the next calendar year,
including any required interim Reclamation.  If revisions to the financial
assurances are not required, the Operator shall explain, in writing, why
revisions are not required.



 



   (9)   Any other information that may be required to adequately
characterize the financial assurances.



 



   4.   Environmental analysis as required by the California
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) and the City’s CEQA Guidelines.



 



   F.   Procedure.



 



   1.   The application for Permit shall be processed as provided in
Section 12.24 of this Code for conditional uses under the jurisdiction of the
Commission, except that the notification radius shall be 1,500 feet from the
exterior perimeter of the proposed project site. The application is further
subject to the exceptions of Subdivisions 2. through 5. of this subsection
(procedures for state review).  (Amended by Ord. No. 184,246, Eff. 6/4/16.)



 



   2.   Within 30 days of the date the application is determined to be
complete, a copy of the site analysis, operations analysis, and Reclamation
plan shall be sent to the state Department of Conservation.



 



   3.   Whenever Surface Mining Operations are proposed in the 100-
year floodplain, as shown in Zone A of the Flood Insurance Rate Maps issued
by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, and within one mile, upstream or
downstream, of any state highway bridge, within 30 days of the date the
application is determined to be complete, a copy of the site analysis,
operations analysis, and Reclamation plan shall be sent to the state
Department of Transportation.



 



   4.   State Department of Conservation.



 



   (a)   Prior to taking any action to approve, conditionally approve,
or deny an application submitted under this section, the Commission or
Council shall certify to the state Department of Conservation that the site
analysis, operations analysis, Reclamation plan, and financial assurances
comply with the applicable requirements of state law, and shall submit them
to the state Department of Conservation for review.



 



   (b)   The state Department of Conservation is allowed 30 days under
state law to review and comment on the site analysis, operations analysis,
and Reclamation plan.  The state Department of Conservation is allowed 45
days under state law to review and comment on the financial assurances. 
Time limits of this code shall be suspended during these comment periods.



 



   (c)   If the state Department of Conservation fails to comment
within the statutory time periods, the Commission or Council shall not
interpret this failure as either approval or disapproval of the site
analysis, operations analysis, Reclamation plan, or financial assurances.



 



   5.   Evaluation of Comments.



 



   (a)   The Commission or Council shall evaluate any written comments
by the state Department of Conservation received during the statutory comment
periods.  Time limits of this code shall be suspended during the
Commission’s or Council’s evaluation.



 



   (b)   A written response to the state Department of Conservation’s
comments shall be prepared for the Commission’s or Council’s approval. 
If the Commission’s or Council’s position differs from the Department of
Conservation’s comments, the written response shall address in detail why
specific comments were not accepted.



 



   (c)   Copies of any written comments received, and responses
prepared, by the Commission or Council shall be promptly forwarded to the
Owner and/or Operator.



 



   6.   Commission or Council Decision.  Within 30 days of the date of
Paragraph (b) of Subdivision 5 above (regarding the Commission’s or
Council’s responses to the state Department of Conservation), the
Commission or Council shall approve, conditionally approve, or deny the site
analysis, operations analysis, Reclamation plan, and/or financial assurances.



 



   7.   A Permit shall not be effective until 15 days after approval by
the Commission, or after approval by the Council if the Council approval is a
result of an appeal or transfer of jurisdiction.



 



   G.   Findings.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,095, Eff. 5/7/12.)  A
Permit shall be approved if the Commission or Council finds:



 



   1.   that the project complies with the Act and with the policies of
the State Board for Surface Mining Operations;



 



   2.   that the proposed Surface Mining Operations will not be
detrimental to the public health, safety, and welfare;



 



   3.   that the proposed Surface Mining Operations are in substantial
conformance with the purposes, intent and provisions of the Open Space and
the Conservation Elements of the General Plan;



 



   4.   that the drainage and erosion control plan is adequate to
protect the public health, safety, and welfare;



 



   5.   that the vehicular access plan is adequate to protect the
public health, safety, and welfare;



 



   6.   that the project substantially conforms with the purposes,
intent and provisions of the General Plan, the applicable community plan, and
with any applicable specific plan;



 



   7.   that a written response to the State Department of Conservation
has been prepared, describing the disposition of major issues raised by the
Department of Conservation, and where the City's position differs from the
recommendations and objections raised by the Department of Conservation, the
response has addressed, in detail, why specific comments and suggestions were
not accepted; and



 



   8.   that regarding the Reclamation plan:



 



   (a)   that it complies with the Act and with the policies of the
State Board for Reclamation practice;



 



   (b)   that it is compatible with and shall not adversely affect or
further degrade adjacent properties, the surrounding neighborhood, or the
public health, welfare, and safety;



 



   (c)   that the land and/or resources such as water bodies to be
reclaimed will be restored to a condition that is compatible, and blends in
with the surrounding natural environment, topography, and other resources; or
that suitable off-site development will compensate for related disturbance to
resource value; and



 



   (d)   that the Reclamation plan will restore the Mined Lands to a
usable condition that is in substantial conformance with the purposes, intent
and provisions of the Open Space and Conservation Elements of the General
Plan.



 



   H.   Appeal.



 



   1.   The signing of statements required by Subsection G of this
section shall not in any way affect rights to appeal the determination in
whole or in part.



 



   2.   Appeals shall be processed as provided in Section 12.24 of this
Code for conditional uses under the jurisdiction of the Commission.



 



   3.   An applicant whose request for a Permit to conduct Surface
Mining Operations in an area of statewide or regional significance (as
determined by the State Board) has been denied, or any Person who is
aggrieved by the granting of a Permit in an area of statewide or regional
significance, shall have rights of appeal to the State Board as may be
granted by the Act.  In the case of conflicts between the determination of
the Commission or Council and the determination of the State Board, the
determination of the State Board shall control.



 



   I.   Exceptions.  A Permit, financial assurances, and Reclamation
plan are not required for:



 



   1.   Excavation or grading conducted for farming or on-site
construction, or for the purpose of restoring land following a flood or a
natural disaster.



 



   2.   Prospecting or Exploration for Minerals of commercial value
where Overburden in the amount of less than 1,000 cubic yards is removed in
any one location of one acre or less.



 



   3.   Prospecting for, or the extraction of, Minerals for commercial
purposes, and the removal of Overburden in total amounts of less than 1,000
cubic yards in any one location of one acre or less.



 



   4.   Surface Mining Operations that are required by federal law in
order to protect a mining claim, if the Operations are conducted solely for
that purpose.



 



   5.   Other Surface Mining Operations as the Commission determines to
be of an infrequent nature, involve only minor surface disturbances, and are
identified by the State Board pursuant to the Act.



 



   6.   Onsite excavation and onsite earth-moving activities which are
an integral and necessary part of a construction project, which are
undertaken to prepare a site for construction of structures, landscaping, or
other land improvements, including the related excavation, grading,
compaction; or creation of fills, road cuts, and embankments, whether or not
surplus materials are exported from the site, subject to all of the following
conditions:



 



   (a)   All required permits for the construction, landscaping, or
related land improvements have been approved by a public agency in accordance
with applicable provisions of state law and locally adopted plans and
ordinances.  This provision shall include compliance with CEQA and the
City’s CEQA Guidelines.



 



   (b)   The City’s approval of the construction project included
consideration of the onsite excavation and onsite earth-moving activities
pursuant to CEQA and the City’s CEQA Guidelines.  In those instances where
CEQA analysis has not otherwise been applied to the project, the procedures,
although not the threshold, of Section 91.7006.8 (CEQA grading review) of the
Municipal Code shall be followed.



 



   (c)   The approved construction project is consistent with the
General Plan and zoning of the site.



 



   (d)   Surplus materials shall not be exported from the site unless
and until actual construction work has commenced.  Export shall cease if it
is determined that construction activities have terminated, have been
indefinitely suspended, or are no longer being actively pursued, except as
provided in the procedures, although not the threshold, of Section
91.7006.7.4 (CEQA grading review) of the Municipal Code.



 



   7.   Operation of a plant site used for Mineral processing,
including associated onsite structures, equipment, machines, tools, or other
materials, including the onsite stockpiling and onsite recovery of mined
Minerals, subject to all of the following conditions:



 



   (a)   The plant site is located in an area designated in the Land
Use Element of the General Plan with a designation corresponding to the M3
Zone.



 



   (b)   The plant site is located on land zoned M3.



 



   (c)   None of the materials being processed are being extracted
onsite; and



 



   (d)   All Reclamation work has been Completed pursuant to the
approved Reclamation plan for any Mineral extraction activities that occurred
before January 1, 1976.



 



   8.   The solar evaporation of sea water or bay water for the
production of salt and related Minerals.



 



   9.   Emergency excavations or grading conducted by the state
Department of Water Resources or the Reclamation Board for the purpose of
averting, alleviating repairing, or restoring damage to property due to
imminent or recent floods, disasters, or other emergencies, and



 



   10.   Persons who have obtained a Vested right to continue Surface
Mining Operations prior to January 1, 1976, providing that:



 



   (a)   No substantial change may be made in the Surface Mining
Operation without securing a new Permit. The Surface Mining Operations shall
be subject to those limitations set forth in this section, and to any
conditions imposed by the Commission or Council in any pre-existing Permit or
authority to conduct the Operations.



 



   (b)   Persons with Vested rights shall submit to the Commission
within six months after receipt of notice from the City a Reclamation plan
for lands mined after January 1, 1976.  The Reclamation plan shall be
subject to review, hearing and approval by the Commission as provided in
Subsection F of this section.



 



   (c)   However, where a Person with Vested rights has continued
Surface Mining Operations in the same area subsequent to January 1, 1976, he
or she shall obtain the commission’s approval or the approval of council on
appeal of a Reclamation plan covering the Mined Lands disturbed by the
subsequent Surface Mining Operations. In those cases where an overlap exists
(in the horizontal and/or vertical sense) between pre-and post-Act mining,
the Reclamation plan shall call for Reclamation proportional to that
disturbance caused by the Mining Operations after the effective date of the
Act.



 



   (d)   All other requirements of state law and this section shall
apply to Vested Surface Mining Operations.



 



   11.   Nothing in this section shall be construed as requiring the
reapproval of a Reclamation plan which is in substantial conformity with the
Act, approved prior to the effective date of this section.



 



   J.   Amendments.  Amendments or changes to an approved Permit or
Reclamation plan shall be submitted to the Commission and shall become
effective only if approved by the Commission.  Substantial deviations from
the approved Permit or Reclamation plan shall be processed in the same manner
as provided for in Subsection F of this section.



 



   K.   Public Record.  Reclamation plans, reports, applications for
Permits, and other documents as described in Section 2778 of the Public
Resources Code are public records unless it can be demonstrated to the
satisfaction of the Commission that the release of all or part of the
information would reveal production reserves or rate of depletion entitled to
protection as proprietary information.  Proprietary information shall be
made available only to the State Geologist and to Persons authorized in
writing by the Operator and/or the Owner.



 



   L.   Successors.  Each subsequent Owner and/or Operator of a
premise covered by a Permit, whether by sale, assignment, transfer,
conveyance, exchange, or other means, shall be bound by the provisions of the
approved Reclamation plan, the provisions of this section, and the Act.



 



   M.   Inspections.



 



   1.   The Director shall inspect each Surface Mining Operation at
least once a year, within six months of receipt of the annual report required
in Subsection O of this section, to determine whether the Surface Mining
Operation is in compliance with the approved site analysis, operations
analysis, and/or Reclamation plan; approved financial assurances; and state
regulations.  The inspections may be made by a state-registered geologist,
state-registered civil engineer, state-licensed landscape architect, or
state-registered professional forester, who is experienced in land
Reclamation of the type described in the Reclamation plan, and who has not
been employed by the Surface Mining Operation in any capacity during the
previous 12 months; or other qualified specialists, as selected by the
Director.  All inspections shall be conducted using a form approved by the
State Board.  A fee as established by Section 19.01I of this Code shall be
charged for this inspection.  The Department shall transmit a copy of the
inspection report to the state Department of Conservation within thirty days
of completion of the inspection.



 



   2.   The Director may authorize the Superintendent of Building to
inspect each Surface Mining Operation at least once a year.  An annual
inspection fee as established by Section 98.0402(e)3 of this Code shall be
collected by the Superintendent.  An inspection may also be made by the
Superintendent whenever a complaint is received by him or her concerning a
violation of the municipal code and/or its Permit.  The Superintendent shall
send notice of the inspection, and his or her findings, to the Director
within five days of the performance of the inspection.



 



   3.   If a Surface Mining Operation inspected by the Superintendent
of Building is found to be in violation of any provision of the municipal
code and/or its Permit, the Superintendent shall send a notice to comply to
the Operator within two weeks of the inspection, in accordance with the
provisions of Section 12.26 of this Code.  The notice to comply shall
clearly state the following:



 



   (a)   The violation shall be corrected by a compliance date
specified in the notice, and shall be no more than 30 days from the date the
notice is mailed.



 



   (b)   The compliance date as specified in the notice may be extended
for no more than 45 days if the Operator presents satisfactory evidence to
the Superintendent of Building that unusual difficulties prevent substantial
compliance without an extension.



 



   N.   Interim Management Plan.



 



   1.   Within 90 days of a Surface Mining Operation becoming Idle, the
Operator shall submit to the Department a proposed Interim Management Plan
(IMP.) The proposed IMP shall fully comply with the requirements of the Act,
and shall provide measures the Operator will implement to maintain the site
in a stable condition, taking into consideration public health and safety. 
The proposed IMP shall be processed in accordance with the provisions of
Subsection J of this section (amendments).  IMPs shall not be considered a
project for the purposes of complying with CEQA and the city’s CEQA
Guidelines.



 



   2.   Financial assurances for Idle operations shall be maintained as
though the operation were active.



 



   3.   Upon receipt of a complete proposed IMP, the Department shall
forward the IMP to the state Department of Conservation for review.  The IMP
shall be submitted to the state Department of Conservation at least 30 days
prior to approval under Subsection J of this section (amendments).



 



   4.   Within 60 days of the receipt of the IMP, or a longer period
mutually agreed upon by the Director and the Operator, the IMP shall be
reviewed and approved, conditionally approved, or denied.



 



   5.   The IMP shall remain in effect for a period not to exceed five
years, at which time the Commission may renew the IMP for another period not
to exceed five years, or require the Surface Mining Operator to begin
Reclamation in accordance with its approved Reclamation plan.



 



   O.   Annual Report.  Surface Mining Operators shall forward an
annual Surface Mining Operations report to the state Department of
Conservation and to the Department on a date established by the state
Department of Conservation, upon forms furnished by the State Board.  New
Surface Mining Operations shall file an initial Surface Mining Operations
report and any applicable filing fees with the state Department of
Conservation within 30 days of Permit approval, or before commencement of
operations, whichever is sooner.  Any applicable fees, together with a copy
of the annual inspection report, shall be forwarded to the state Department
of Conservation at the time of filing the annual Surface Mining Operations
report.



 



 



SEC. 13.04.  “RPD” RESIDENTIAL PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICTS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 141,474, Eff. 2/27/71.)



 



   *A.   Purpose – The purpose of the regulations set forth in this
section is to provide for the establishment and control of residential
planned developments. It is the intent of this section to promote and achieve
greater flexibility in design, to encourage well–planned neighborhoods with
adequate open space which offer a variety of housing and environments through
creative and imaginative planning as a unit, to increase housing
opportunities for low and moderate income households, and provide for the
most appropriate use of land through special methods of development. (Amended
by Ord. No. 145,927, Eff. 6/3/74.)



 



   * If any provision of this ordinance, or the application thereof to any
person, property or circumstance, is held invalid, the remainder of this
ordinance, or the application of such provisions to other persons, property
or circumstances, shall not be affected thereby.



 



   B.   Application. The provisions of this section shall apply to
districts wherein residential planned developments are permitted.



 



   C.   Requirements for Filing. Each application for the establishment
of an RPD District shall be accompanied by a preliminary plot plan of the
proposed development showing the expected locations and arrangement of lots,
structures, streets, driveways, easements, open space, parks, schools, and so
forth. Such plans shall indicate the layout of the proposed development, and
its appearance, characteristics and compatibility with the City’s General
Plan and existing local conditions.



 



   In addition to the foregoing, each application for the establishment of
an RPD District in “H” Hillside or Mountainous Areas shall be accompanied
by the following:



 



   1.   Detailed Topographic Survey. The topographic survey shall
include an accurate topographic survey at a minimum scale of 1" = 100' with
contour intervals of 5 and 25 feet. Such survey shall accurately indicate the
location of the property lines.



 



   2.   Basic Preliminary Grading Plan. The preliminary grading plan
shall be prepared by a licensed civil engineer. This plan shall be at a
minimum scale of 1" = 100' and shall include the following:



 



   a.   Tract number



 



   b.   Legal description.



 



   c.   Names, addresses and telephone numbers of the record owner,
subdivider and design engineer.



 



   d.   North arrow, engineering scale and date.



 



   e.   The widths and approximate grades of existing and proposed
rights of way within and adjacent to the property involved



 



   f.   Locations, widths and approximate grades of existing and
proposed highways and streets.



 



   g.   Lot layout, approximate dimensions, proposed elevation and
number of each lot.



 



   h.   Existing and proposed contours of the land.



 



   i.   Proposed method of sewage disposal and drainage.



 



   j.   Existing and proposed zoning.



 



   3.   Preliminary Geological and Soils Engineering Reports. These
reports shall be sufficiently detailed to provide a basis for a reasonable
evaluation of geological and soils conditions on and adjacent to the site of
the proposed RPD, and shall contain as a minimum the following:



 



   a.   A geologic map showing all exposures of rock soil and alluvium,
fill, landslides, slumps, zones of bedrock and soil creep, suspected fault
and shear zones, joints and fractures. The geologic map must be based upon an
accurate topographic map or the preliminary grading plans upon a scale
commensurate with items 1 and 2 above, and reflect careful attention to the
bedrock and soil types present and the geologic structure, either exposed or
inferred by other geological data obtained on the site.



 



   b.   A geologic report including definite statements, conclusions
and recommendations concerning the following:



 



   (1)   Location and general setting with respect to major geographic
and/or geologic features.



 



   (2)   Topography and drainage in the subject area



 



   (3)   Abundance, distribution, and general nature of exposures of
earth materials within the area



 



   (4)   A reasonable evaluation and prediction of the performance of
any proposed cut and fill slopes in relation to geological conditions.



 



   (5)   An evaluation of existing and anticipated surface and
subsurface water circulation in terms of the proposed development.



 



   (6)   Recommendations concerning future detailed subsurface
exploration.



 



   c.   A preliminary soils engineering report, based upon an
examination of the site in sufficient detail to provide the following:



 



   (1)   General anticipated bearing characteristics of earth materials.



 



   (2)   Lateral stability of earth materials, especially fill slopes.



 



   (3)   Problems of excavation and fill placement.



 



   (4)   Handling of seepage water, soil stripping and special
treatment of soils on the site.



 



   (5)   Evaluation of deep canyon fills, side hill fills and any
special preparation of areas in which fill is to be placed.



 



   (6)   Estimation of the swell characteristics of earth materials and
special design problems that may be anticipated.



 



   (7)   Delineation in general of all areas where future subsurface
exploration sampling and testing may be necessary.



 



   Sufficient copies of the above maps, plans and reports shall be
provided by the applicant for the purpose of distribution to members of the
Subdivision Committee. The required plans and data shall be directed to the
Advisory Agency for analysis, report and recommendation by the Subdivision
Committee on all matters within the purview of said Committee. the Committee
members shall, within 40 calendar days of the filing of the application for
an RPD District, transmit their reports and recommendations to the Advisory
Agency. Within ten calendar days thereafter, the Advisory Agency shall
transmit the report and recommendation to the Subdivision Committee of the
Planning Commission. However on an application for the establishment of an
RPD District in “H” Hillside or Mountainous Areas those time limits may
be extended by mutual consent of the applicant and the Advisory Agency.
(Amended by Ord. No. 142,117, Eff. 7/31/71.)



 



   Where a proposed development constitutes a portion of a single
ownership which is to be developed in phases, the applicant shall submit a
projected general plan of land use, circulation and anticipated sequence of
development for the entire ownership. Said plan shall be of sufficient detail
to indicate the proposed relationship of the entire development and
individual phases thereof to the General Plan of the area and to existing
adjoining development and proposed adjoining development which has been
approved by the City.



 



   D.   Establishment of District and Other Requirements – In order
to achieve the purpose of a residential planned development and to assure
that such establishment will substantially comply with the applicable
elements of the City General Plan, the RPD District shall be subject to the
following requirements:



 



   1.   Establishment of District Height and Area Regulations. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  The Council shall
in the ordinance establishing an RPD District also establish the density area
regulations, and height regulation applicable to the district.  The height
and area regulations, including peripheral setbacks, of the zone in which the
land is located, shall not apply to structures, buildings and lots in an
approved RPD District.  However, the setback requirements of the zone in
which the RPD District is located shall be the minimum setback from the
periphery required for structures and buildings within the RPD District
itself.  Whenever the City Planning Commission recommends that the Council
adopt an ordinance establishing an RPD District, it shall also recommend
maximum density, height and area limitations, including peripheral setbacks,
and shall transmit to the Council the recommended plan of development for the
entire proposed development.  At the time the Council is considering the
establishment of an RPD District, it shall submit to the City Planning
Commission for report and recommendation any revised or alternative
development plans submitted by the applicant prior to final action.  The
Commission shall act on a revised or alternate plan within 50 days of receipt
of the file from the Council.  Should the City Planning Commission fail to
act within the 50 days, the applicant may request transfer of jurisdiction to
the Council.



 



   2.   Density. The ordinance establishing an RPD District shall
contain a number suffixed with said district symbol which shall be indicated
within the boundaries of each zone classification within such district. Said
number shall be the average number of dwelling units permitted per acre of
land, exclusive of public streets, in the residential planned development, or
portion thereof, e.g. RPD–1, RPD–2, etc. Such designation or designations
shall be indicated upon the Zoning Map. In any RPD District, or differently
zoned portion thereof, the average number of dwelling units per acre of land,
or fraction thereof, exclusive of public streets, shall not exceed the
maximum number of dwelling units permitted by the underlying zone or zones
within such district or portion thereof, pursuant to the following schedule:



 




(Amended by Ord. No. 161,716, Eff. 12/6/86)




 

Zone
 

Detached Single Family Dwellings

 

or

 

Townhouses

 

or

 

Dwelling Units in Apartments





RE 40
 
1.0
 

"

 

–

 

"

 

–



RA; RE 20
 
2.0
 

"

 
2.0
 

"

 

–



RE 15
 
2.9
 

"

 
2.9
 

"

 

–



RE 11
 
3.9
 

"

 
3.9
 

"

 

–



RE 9
 
4.8
 

"

 
4.8
 

"

 

–



RS
 
5.8
 

"

 
5.8
 

"

 

–



R1
 
8.7
 

"

 
8.7
 

"

 

–



RU
 
12.4
 

"

 
12.4
 

"

 

–



RD 6
 

–

 

"

 
7.0
 

"

 
7.0


RD 5
 

–

 

"

 
8.7
 

"

 
8.7


RD 4
 

–

 

"

 
10.8
 

"

 
10.8


RD 3
 

–

 

"

 
14.5
 

"

 
14.5


RZ 2.5
 
17.4
 

"

 
17.4
 

"

 

–



R2
 

–

 

"

 
17.4
 

"

 

–



RD 2
 

–

 

"

 
18.6
 

"

 
21.7


RD 1.5
 

–

 

"

 
18.6
 

"

 
29.0


R3
 

–

 

"

 
32.6
 

"

 
36.0


R4
 

–

 

"

 
32.6
 

"

 
54.0




 



   The total number of dwelling units within an RPD District located in an
“H” Hillside or Mountainous Area established pursuant to Section
12.32–H of this Code, shall not exceed the density indicated on the General
Plan for such area or the maximum number of dwelling units permitted by the
underlying zone or zones within such district pursuant to the above schedule,
whichever is less, and only detached single family dwellings or townhouses
shall be the types of housing permitted thereon.



 



   3.   Area or District.



 



   a.   Every RPD District shall have an area of 3 acres or more
exclusive of public streets. Provided, however, that an RPD District may have
an area of 5,000 square feet, or the minimum lot area required by the zone,
whichever is greater, or more, exclusive of public streets, whenever the
underlying zone of such district is in the RD6, RD5, RD4, R2, RD2, RD1.5, R3,
or R4 Zone.



 



   b.   The Commission and the City Council may approve an RPD District
having an area less than required herein if said district adjoins and will
constitute an integral part of an existing RPD District and the proposed
development is in harmony with that permitted in the existing RPD District,
the existing and proposed plans for adjacent areas and the General Plan. In
no event may the proposed RPD District be approved with an average density
exceeding that permitted in the existing RPD District.



 



   E.   Standard Residential Conditions.  The following standard
residential conditions shall apply to each RPD District. In addition, after
report and recommendation by the Commission, the Council may, by ordinance,
impose any other conditions as it deems necessary and proper at the time of
establishing such district. In its report to the Council relative to the
establishment of an RPD District, the Commission may recommend such other
conditions as it deems necessary or desirable in carrying out the general
purpose and intent of this section. The standard residential conditions are
as follows:



 



   1.   Final Subdivision Map or Parcel Map. No building permit shall
be issued for any building within an RPD District, except for sales models,
recreational buildings or community facilities, unless a Final Subdivision
Tract Map or Parcel Map has first been recorded for the property on which the
building is located.



 



   2.   Coverage. The Commission shall recommend to the City Council
the proportion of the total development site to be covered by buildings and
structures.



 



   3.   Separation Between Buildings. The Commission shall recommend to
the City Council the minimum separation between all buildings in the
development but in no event shall there be less than 20 feet of space between
townhouse buildings of two or more stories.



 



   4.   Open Space. Common open space shall comprise at least 25 per
cent of the land area exclusive of streets, provided, however, that where the
applicant submits evidence to the satisfaction of the Commission that the
particular development will contain compensatory characteristics which will
provide as well or better for planned unit development within the intent of
this section, the Commission may recommend modification of said requirements
to the Council. At least half of the required common open space shall be of
not more than 15% slope.



 



   The common open space shall be land within the total development site
used for recreational, park or environmental purposes for enjoyment by
occupants of the development, but shall not include public streets,
driveways, utility easements where the ground surface cannot be used
appropriately for common open space, private yards and patios, parking spaces
nor other areas primarily designed for other operational functions.



 



   5.   Private Streets. Private streets shall not be permitted in RPD
developments.



 



   6.   Parking. There shall be at least two automobile parking spaces
for each townhouse or detached single family dwelling in a residential
planned development. Said spaces shall be provided in a private garage. There
shall be at least two off-street parking spaces per dwelling unit provided
for other residential buildings. Provided, however, that in an “H”
Hillside or Mountainous Area there shall be at least three off-street
automobile parking spaces provided for each dwelling unit in a residential
planned development. In the case of a townhouse or detached single family
dwelling, two of the said required three parking spaces shall be provided in
a private garage. Provided, further, that the Commission in connection with
any residential planned development may recommend to the Council such
additional number of spaces as it deems necessary to adequately provide for
the needs within the district. For non–residential buildings, the
Commission may recommend to the Council the number of parking spaces
required, but if no such determination is made, the provisions of Section
12.21–A of this code shall apply.



 



   7.   Utilities. All new utility lines, pursuant to Section 17.05N,
and all new off-site service utility lines, necessary to serve the
development, shall be installed underground.



 



   8.   Townhouses. The width of each townhouse in the project shall
average at least 20 feet. There shall be a separate private yard with a total
area of at least 320 square feet adjacent to each townhouse unless equivalent
alternate arrangement of patios or roof decks are provided within the
preliminary plot plan, and approved by ordinance. No building shall contain
more than eight townhouses.



 



   9.   Separate Lots. No portion of land within a residential planned
development shall be divided or separated in ownership unless it is first
recorded as a separate and distinct lot on a recorded final Subdivision Tract
Map or Parcel Map.



 



   Every lot for a residential building (except a detached single family
dwelling or townhouse), church, school, hospital or infirmary shall have a
minimum width of 50 feet and a minimum area of 5,000 square feet, or such
additional widths or areas as may be required by the Commission and the
Council. Each such lot shall front for a distance of at least 20 feet upon a
street.



 



   All lots for detached single family dwellings in the project shall be
at least 35 feet wide and said lots shall have a minimum area of 3500 square
feet or such additional areas or widths as may be required by the Commission
and the Council in the ordinance establishing the district. Each such lot
shall front for a distance of at least 20 feet upon a street.



 



   Each townhouse lot in the project shall average at least 20 feet in its
narrowest dimension. Said lots shall have a minimum area of 1750 square feet
or such additional areas or widths as may be required by the Commission and
the Council in establishing an RPD District. Provided, however, that where
the underlying zone of a lot for a townhouse is in the R3 or R4 Zone said lot
may have an area of at least 1,000 square feet or such additional area as may
be required by the Commission and the Council. Any lot for a townhouse need
have only such access or street frontage as is shown on the approved final
development plans.



 



   10.   Separate Units. Every owner of a dwelling unit or lot shall
own as an appurtenance to such dwelling unit or lot, either, (1) an undivided
interest in the common areas and facilities, or (2) a share in the
corporation, or voting membership in an association, owning the common areas
and facilities.



 



   11.   Maintenance. The right to maintain the buildings and use the
property for a residential planned development shall continue in effect only
so long as all of the mutually available features, such as recreational
areas, community buildings, landscaping, as well as the general appearance of
the premises and buildings are all maintained in a first class condition and
as indicated on the approved Final Development Plans.



 



   12.   Covenants. The provisions of Standard Condition 11 shall be
included in the conditions, covenants, and restrictions applying to the
property, which are recorded in the Office of the County Recorder and copies
of said provisions shall be furnished to the individual purchasers of units
in the development.



 



   The provisions of Standard Condition 11 shall also be in each of the
preliminary and final drafts of the conditions, covenants, and restrictions
submitted to the Real Estate Commissioner.



 



   13.   Sale of Lots or Units. No dwelling unit or lot shall be sold
or encumbered separately from an interest in the common areas and facilities
in the development which shall be appurtenant to such dwelling unit or lot.
No lot shall be sold or transferred in ownership from the other lots in the
total development, or approved phase of the development, unless all approved
community buildings, structures, and recreational facilities for the total
development, or approved phase thereof, have been completed, or completion is
assured, by bonding or other method satisfactory to the Advisory Agency.



 



   14.   Management Agreement. No lot or dwelling unit in the
development shall be sold unless a corporation, association, property owners
group or similar entity has been formed with the right to assess all those
properties which are jointly owned with interests in the common areas and
facilities in the development to meet the expenses of such entity, and with
authority to control, and the duty to maintain all of said mutually available
features of the development. Such entity shall operate under recorded
conditions, covenants and restrictions which shall include compulsory
membership of all owners of lots and/or dwelling units, and flexibility of
assessments to meet changing costs of maintenance, repairs and services. The
developer shall submit evidence of compliance with this requirement to and
receive the approval of the Advisory Agency prior to making any such sale.
This condition shall not apply to land dedicated to the City for public
purposes.



 



   *15. Low and Moderate Income Dwelling Units. (Added by Ord. No.
145,927, Eff. 6/3/74.) Every residential planned development shall provide
low and moderate income dwelling units as provided in Section 12.39** of this
code.



 



   * If any provision of this ordinance, or the application thereof to any
person, property or circumstance, is held invalid, the remainder of this
ordinance, or the application of such provisions to other persons, property
or circumstances, shall not be affected thereby.



 



   ** Section 12.39 was repealed by Ord. No. 180,308 Eff. 12/7/08.



 



   F.   Final Development Plans.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff.
7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  Any final development plans shall be in substantial
conformance with the preliminary plans.  Prior to the issuance of any
permits for the erection or enlargement of any buildings within an
established RPD District, final precise site and elevation plans for all
buildings and landscaping within the district or approved phase of the
development, shall be submitted to and approved by the Zoning Administrator
and to the Area planning Commission on appeal.  If the original action
establishing an RPD District included the submission and approval of final
precise plans for the complete development, building permits may be issued in
accordance with those plans.  In connection with the review of final
development plans, deviations in any of the conditions previously established
may be authorized pursuant to the provisions of Subsection I of this section.



 



   G.   Permits – No permit shall be issued for grading, or for the
erection, enlargement or maintenance of buildings or structures for a
residential planned development, and no person shall perform any such
development or construction work, except in full compliance with the final
development plans approved as herein provided.



 



   No building permit shall be issued for other than approved model units
until the conditions, covenants, and restrictions required by Section
13.04-E,12 have been submitted to and approved by the City Attorney.



 



   H.   Termination of Districts – Any authority to establish or
maintain an RPD district pursuant to the provisions of this section shall
terminate: (1) within one and one–half years after the effective date of
the ordinance establishing such district unless a tentative subdivision map
of the proposed development has been filed; (2) within two years of the
tentative map approval, unless construction work on the first phase of the
development has begun; (3) unless such work is carried on diligently to
completion.



 



   Upon termination of a district, the Zoning Map shall be corrected by
removing the district symbol.



 



   I.   Changes and Modifications. After an ordinance establishing an
RPD District, and all of the conditions applicable thereto have been adopted
by the City Council, the procedure for modifying such conditions shall be the
same as that required for the establishment of an RPD District. If approved
by the Council, the request for modification of such conditions shall be
effectuated by the adoption of an ordinance amending the original ordinance
establishing the particular district.



 



 



SEC. 13.05.  “K” EQUINEKEEPING DISTRICTS.



   (Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 157,144, Eff. 11/22/82;
“Department of Animal Regulation” renamed “Department of Animal
Services” by Ord. No. 174,735, Eff. 9/13/02.)



 



   A.   Purpose. It is the purpose and object of this section to
establish reasonable and uniform limitations, safeguards and controls for the
keeping and maintenance of equines within the City of Los Angeles.



 



   B.   Establishment of Districts.



 



   1.   The City Council may establish new Equinekeeping Districts and
enlarge the boundaries of such districts now or hereafter established.



 



   2.   No Equinekeeping District shall contain less than 5 acres of
land including the area of all dedicated streets and highways contained
therein. All lots or parcels of property contained within the district’s
boundaries shall be contiguous. The boundaries of the district shall be drawn
so as to coincide as nearly as practicable with street alignments or other
clearly discernible boundaries. (Amended by Ord. No. 161,352 Eff. 7/20/86.)



 



   C.   Conditions.  All property within a district shall be subject
to the following conditions:



 



   1.   If the equine enclosure is less than 75 feet from the habitable
rooms of a neighbor’s dwelling unit, the enclosure shall not be closer to
the habitable rooms of a neighbor’s dwelling unit than to the habitable
rooms of a dwelling unit on the equine keeping lot.



 



   2.   In no event shall the equine enclosure be located closer than
35 feet to the habitable rooms of any dwelling unit.



 



   3.   Any additional conditions which may be deemed necessary to be
imposed shall be established by ordinance.



 



   4.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code relating to
the number of equines permitted in any zone, any lot included in a “K”
Equinekeeping District which was formed after January 12,1975 may be used to
keep no more than one equine for each 4,000 square feet of lot area. (Amended
by Ord. No. 159,341, Eff. 10/11/84.)



 



   5.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code to the
contrary, in a “K” Equinekeeping District, an animal keeping structure
may be located on any portion of a parcel except the required front yard and
shall not be closer than 10 feet from the required side lot lines so long as
the distance requirements of this Section are complied with. This subdivision
shall not, however, authorize the location of an animal keeping structure in
any side or rear yard areas as defined in Section 12.21–C,5(a) (25 foot
required yards) which immediately abut a lot which is not itself in a “K”
Equinekeeping District.



 



   6.   Notwithstanding any provisions of this Code to the contrary, in
the “A” and “R” Zones, located within a “K” Equinekeeping
District, a maximum of two equines not owned by the resident of the involved
property may be boarded or kept on that property as an accessory use without
such boarding or keeping being regarded as a commercial equinekeeping
operation; provided, however, that the total number of equines being boarded
or kept on the property does not exceed one for each 4,000 square feet of lot
area. Said equines shall be issued current Equine Licenses by the City
Department of Animal Services. (Amended by Ord. No. 159,341, Eff. 10/11/84.)



 



   7.   Notwithstanding any provisions of this Code to the contrary,
equine uses of the land on “K” Equinekeeping District lots shall be
allowed to be continued if, after the legal establishment of the equine use,
the City issued a building permit to construct a residential building on an
adjacent lot within the legal required distance between an equine use and the
residential building on an adjacent lot. If, in accordance with the
provisions of Section 12.24X5 the Zoning Administrator grants permission for
a residential building on an adjacent lot to be constructed closer than 35
feet from a legally existing equine enclosure, the equine enclosure may be
considered to be nonconforming if it is relocated not closer than 35 feet
from the habitable rooms attached to any residential building. The
nonconforming equine use shall be subject to the following limitations: 
(Para. Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)



 



   a.   The equine enclosure shall not be closer than 35 feet from the
habitable rooms of any residential building.



 



   b.   The subject lot has been designated by an Equine License to
stable at least one licensed equine during the 12 months prior to the
issuance of the building permit for the residential building on an adjacent
lot.



 



   c.   The equine enclosure shall not be expanded, extended, or
relocated so as to reduce the nonconforming distance between the enclosure
and the habitable rooms of the residential building on an adjacent lot.



 



   d.   The nonconforming equine use shall be discontinued if, during a
successive 3–year period, no equine is licensed by the Department of Animal
Services to be stabled on the subject lot.



 



   8.   Notwithstanding any provisions of this Code to the contrary, if
an equine use in a “K” District was legally established before November
22, 1982, that use shall be allowed to continue even though the City issued a
building permit between November 22, 1982 and July 1, 1986, to construct a
residential building on an adjacent lot within the 35-foot required distance
between an equine use and the habitable rooms of a residential building on
the adjacent lot.  This provision shall not apply to building permits
authorized by the Zoning Administrator pursuant to Section 12.24X5.  This
nonconforming equine use shall be subject to the following limitations: 
(Para. Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)



 



   1.   The subject lot has been designated by an Equine License to
stable at least one licensed equine during the 12 months prior to the
issuance of the building permit for the residential building on an adjacent
lot.



 



   2.   The equine enclosure shall not be expanded, extended, or
relocated so as to reduce the nonconforming distance between the enclosure
and the habitable rooms of the residential building on an adjacent lot.



 



   3.   The nonconforming equine use shall be discontinued if, during a
successive 3–year period, no equine is licensed by the Department of Animal
Services to be stabled on the subject lot.



 



   Nothing in this subdivision relieves any person from the obligation to
comply with the requirements of any County or State law.



 



 



SEC. 13.06.  COMMERCIAL AND ARTCRAFT DISTRICTS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 146,775, Eff. 1/6/75.)



 



   A.   Purpose – The provisions set forth in this section shall
create enclaves whereby the artisan segments of the population may live,
create and market their artifacts. Artcraft activities, combined with
commercial and residential uses will be permitted in those areas appropriate
for the establishment of a Commercial and Artcraft District.



 



   B.   Application – The provisions of this section shall apply to
the areas wherein CA Districts are permitted.



 



   C.   Establishment of District.



 



   (1)   Requirements – Each application for the establishment of a
Commercial and Artcraft District shall include the signatures of
seventy–five percent (75%) of the owners or lessees of property of an area
not less than three acres (3 acs.) in total size, or by resolution of the
Commission or Council. The area shall be computed by contiguous parcels of
land which may be separated only by public streets, ways or alleys.



 



   (2)   Boundaries – Public right-of-ways can be included in the
computation of the total acreage in the district area described in said
application and the boundaries thereof shall follow public streets, ways or
alleys so far as practical.



 



   (3)   Alternate Procedures – The procedures set forth in Section
12. 24 of this Chapter shall be used for those applicants desirous of a CA
District but cannot comply with the aforementioned procedures.



 



   D.   Standard Conditions – Applicants desirous of a “CA”
District, are subject to the limitations and restrictions contained herein.
Said regulations are imposed in order to promote and achieve optimal
conditions for artcraft functions, while maintaining adequate protection from
obnoxious pollutants, for the adjacent properties.



 



   (1)   Production Techniques – The creating, assembling,
compounding or treating of articles shall be accomplished by hand, or to the
extent practical for a particular artifact.



 



   Only those art products which are made by the artisan or his employees
from raw materials can be sold. Mass produced parts may be used only if
incidental to the basic artifact. In those production techniques which
necessitate the use of a kiln, the total volume of kiln space shall not
exceed twenty–four (24) cubic feet and no individual kiln shall exceed
eight (8) cubic feet.



 



   Power tools shall be limited to electrically operated motors of not
more than one horse power.



 



   (2)   Location of Equipment – The machinery and equipment shall be
so installed and maintained, and the activity shall be so conducted, that
noise, smoke, dust, odor and all other objectionable factors, shall be
confined or reduced to the extent that no annoyance or injury will result to
persons residing in the vicinity



 



   (3)   Area of Production – Certain artcraft activities as listed
in Section E2 shall he restricted to either indoor or outdoor manufacturing.



 



   (4)   Commercial Activities – The display of all completed
artifacts shall he permitted outdoors and all commercial activities shall be
limited to retail business only. The sale of all items, except antiques,
shall be limited to those lawfully produced on the premises.



 



   (5)   Employees – Paid helpers shall he limited to no more than
three (3) persons other than members of the immediate family occupying the
dwelling on such premises.



 



   E.   Permitted Uses.  It is the intent of this section to
distinguish between those uses which are considered more appropriate for
indoor and outdoor use. Those uses which are likely to create pollutants or
other activities that would disturb the neighborhood are restricted to indoor
use. Outdoor uses are those which will not create a disturbance.



 



   Premises in “CA” District may be used for the following
manufacturing and retail uses, provided artcrafts activities are limited to
those decorative or illustrative elements requiring manual dexterity or
artistic talent. The following list is intended to provide a guide for the
nature of uses permitted in the district.



 



   (1)   Outdoor Uses – The creating, assembling, compounding or
treating of articles contained in the following list shall be permitted
outdoors:



 



   (a)   Antiques – restoration and sale of antiques and collectibles.



 



   (b)   Art needlework.



 



   (c)   Art studio, including painting and sculpturing.



 



   (d)   Basket weaving.



 



   (e)   Boutiques



 



   (f)   Candle making.



 



   (g)   Cartoon and animation.



 



   (h)   Ceramics – The total volume of kiln space shall not exceed
twenty–four (24) cubic feet and no individual kiln shall exceed eight cubic
feet.



 



   (i)   Costume designing.



 



   (j)   Dance and drama studio, not including any dance activities
requiring a license.



 



   (k)   Fine Arts Gallery.



 



   (l)   Glass – The hand production of glass crystal, art novelties
and the assembly of stained art glass provided that the total volume of kiln
space shall not exceed twenty–four (24) cubic feet and no individual kiln
shall exceed eight (8) cubic feet.



 



   (m)   Musical Instruments



 



   (n)   Photography studio



 



   (o)   Picture mounting and framing.



 



   (p)   Pottery manufacturing provided the total volume of kiln space
   shall not exceed twenty–four (24) cubic feet and no individual kiln
shall exceed (8) cubic feet.



 



   (q)   Shoe and footwear provided all manufacturing is done by hand.



 



   (r)   Silk screen processing.



 



   (s)   Textile weaving, provided hand looms only.



 



   (t)   Toys, manufacturing of by hand



 



   (u)   Woodcarving



 



   (v)   Writing, professional studio



 



   (2)   Indoor Uses – The manufacturing, assembling, compounding or
treating of articles contained in the following list shall be permitted
indoors only. Such uses shall not be permitted above the first floor of any
structure.



 



   (a)   Block printing.



 



   (b)   Jewelry manufacturing.



 



   (c)   Metal engraving.



 



   (d)   Ornamental Iron.



 



   (e)   Printing and publishing.



 



   (f)   Taxidermy.



 



   (g)   Watchmaking.



 



   (3)   A Zoning Administrator shall have authority to determine other
uses in addition to those specifically listed in the article, which may be
permitted in the CA District, when in his judgement such other uses or
similar to and no more objectionable to the public welfare than those listed
above.



 



   (4)   Artcraft Instructions – Artcraft classes shall be permitted
on premises in the CA District and no additional off-street parking shall be
required in conjunction therewith, provided that:



 



   (a)   Classes are held not more than two days a week for a period
not to exceed three hours per day



 



   (b)   Classes are purely incidental to the artcraft uses of the
property and not more than 15 persons are permitted to attend each class.



 



   (c)   Classes involve only the use of those tools and equipment
applicable to production of said artifacts.



 



   (d)   All classes are held on the first floor of the building.



 



   (e)   No certificate of occupancy shall be required in connection
with the use authorized by this ordinance.



 



   (5)   Residential Uses – In the R Zones, the residential
regulations as required in the underlying zone to which the “CA” District
overlays. shall apply. In the C and M zones, residential uses shall be
permitted in connection with the main commercial, industrial or artcraft use.
Said residential use shall observe the requirements set forth in Section
12.10 of the Planning and Zoning Code.



 



   (6)   Parking Requirements.  (Amended by Ord. No. 169,670, Eff.
5/13/94.)  Parking requirements for new buildings shall be as required in
Section 12.21 A.  For an existing building, for which a building permit was
issued prior to April 1, 1994, the number of parking spaces required shall be
the same as the number of parking spaces existing on the site.



 



   Any structure providing a mixture of residential and art craft uses
shall meet the requirements for automobile parking spaces as if each portion
of the facility were an independent entity.



 



   (7)   Yard Requirements.  (Added by Ord. No. 169,670, Eff.
5/13/94.)  For new buildings, the yard requirements shall be the same as
required by the underlying zone.  For existing buildings, for which a
building permit was issued prior to April 1, 1994, the yards required shall
be the same as the yards observed by the existing buildings on the site.



 



 



SEC. 13.07.  PEDESTRIAN ORIENTED DISTRICT.



   (Added by Ord. No. 168,153, Eff. 9/13/92.)



 



   A.   Purpose.  This section sets forth procedures, guidelines and
standards for establishment of Pedestrian Oriented Districts within
commercially zoned areas throughout the City. The purpose of the Pedestrian
Oriented District is to preserve and enhance existing areas or create new
areas where pedestrian activities are common, to encourage people to walk and
shop in areas near their workplaces and/or residences thereby reducing
multiple automobile trips, to reinforce and stimulate high quality future
development compatible with pedestrian uses, to reflect the characteristics
of a particular area  and to encourage pedestrian use during evenings and
weekends, as well as weekdays.



 



   B.   Establishment of District.



 



   1.   Requirements.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00,
Oper. 7/1/00.) The procedures set forth in Section 12.32S shall be followed
except that each Pedestrian Oriented District (POD) shall include only lots
which are zoned either CR, C1, C1.5, C2, C4 or C5.  No District shall
contain less than one block or three acres in area, whichever is the
smaller.  The total acreage in the district shall include contiguous parcels
of land which may only be separated by public streets, ways or alleys, or
other physical features, or as set forth in the rules approved by the
Director of Planning.  Precise boundaries are required at the time of
application for or initiation of an individual POD.



 



   2.   Pedestrian Oriented Streets. Pedestrian Oriented Streets shall
be identified as part of the adoption process of a specific POD. The
following shall be utilized to identify such streets: A Pedestrian Oriented
Street is a public street where the Director of Planning finds that the
street has, or will have in the case of an undeveloped area, at least two of
the following characteristics at sidewalk level:



 



   (a)   The street has, or in the case of an undeveloped area will
have, a variety of commercial uses and activities;



 



   (b)   A majority of the structures on the street are, or in the case
of an undeveloped area will be, of a similar size and incorporate
architectural details such as the location of windows, courts, building
interiors and pedestrian entrances which enhance a pedestrian atmosphere;



 



   (c)   The street has, or in the case of an undeveloped area will
have, amenities, such as street furniture. outdoor restaurants, open air
sales, arcades and the like, which are integrated with the public sidewalk in
such a way as to be conducive to pedestrian activity.



 



   C.   Definitions. For purposes of thissection, the following words
and phrases are defined:



 



   Blank Wall.  A blank wall is any exterior building wall, including a
garage opening or door which fronts on the street and which is not enhanced
by architectural detailing, artwork, landscaping, windows, doors or similar
features.



 



   Building Frontage.  Building Frontage is the maximum length of a line
or lines formed by connecting the points representing projections of the
exterior building walls onto a public street or onto a courtyard that is
directly accessible by pedestrians from a public street, whichever distance
is greater.



 



   Cultural Resource. Cultural resource is a structure officially
recognized to have local, state, or national significance or deemed eligible
for inclusion on the National Register of Historic Places with respect to its
architectural and/or historical characteristics and which is designated as
such in the establishment of an individual Pedestrian Oriented District.



 



   Financially-Oriented Services.  Financially-Oriented Services are the
provision to the public of financial or real estate services including, but
not limited, to those offered by banks, savings and loan associations, thrift
associations, real estate offices, insurance companies, brokerage firms and
escrow offices.



 



   Ground Floor.  Ground floor is the lowest story within a building
which is accessible to the street, the floor level of which is within three
feet above or below curb level, which has frontage on or is primarily facing
any Pedestrian Oriented Street, and which is at least 20 feet in depth or the
total depth of the building, whichever is less.



 



   Neighborhood Retail. Neighborhood retail uses shall be limited to
retail sale of goods needed by residents and patrons of a Pedestrian Oriented
District, including:



 



   Art galleries:



 



   Art supplies;



 



   Athletic/sporting goods:



 



   Bakeries:



 



   Books or cards:



 



   Bicycle sales and repairs:



 



   Clock or watch sales and/or repair:



 



   Clothing



 



   Computer sales and repair:



 



   Drug stores:



 



   Fabrics or dry goods;



 



   Florists,



 



   Food/grocery stores, including supermarkets, produce, cheese and meat
markets and delicatessens:



 



   Hardware:



 



   Household goods and small appliances:



 



   Newsstands;



 



   Photographic equipment and repair;



 



   Sit Down Restaurants, excluding drive-through service



 



   Stationery:



 



   Toys; and



 



   Other similar retail goods as determined by the Zoning Administrator.



 



   Neighborhood Services. Neighborhood services are those services used by
residents and patrons on a regular basis, including:



 



   Barber shop or beauty parlor;



 



   Blueprinting;



 



   Child care facility;



 



   Club or lodge, bridge club, fraternal or religious associations;



 



   Copying services;



 



   Custom dressmaking;



 



   Dry cleaner;



 



   Financial services;



 



   Laundry or self-service laundromat:



 



   Locksmith;



 



   Optician;



 



   Photographer;



 



   Shoe repair;



 



   Tailor: and



 



   Other similar services as determined by the Zoning Administrator.



 



   Project. A Project is the erection or construction of any building or
structure, on a lot in the CR,Cl, Cl.5, C5, C4, and CS Zones, or addition of
floor area to the Ground Floor of any building on a CR, Cl, Cl.5, C2, C4 or
C5 Zoned lot(s), unless the building is used solely for residential dwelling
units.



 



   D.   Application. The district shall apply only to CR, Cl, Cl.5, C2,
C4 and C5 Zoned lot(s) within a POD. In establishing any individual
Pedestrian Oriented District, the City Council may adopt all of the
regulations contained in Subsection E below, however, one or more of the
standards set forth in these regulations may be superseded by development
standards established in the individual Pedestrian Oriented District
ordinance. An individual Pedestrian Oriented District ordinance shall apply
to a particular geographical area. In the event that ordinance does not
include new standards pertaining to development, all of the standards set
forth in Subsection E, hereof shall apply. The regulations contained in this
section are in addition to the use and area regulations applicable to the
underlying commercial zone. If the provisions of this section conflict with
any other city-wide regulations, then the requirements of this section shall
prevail.



 



   E.   Development Regulations.  The Department of Building and
Safety shall not issue a building permit for a Project within a Pedestrian
Oriented District unless the Project conforms to all of the following
development regulations, or to the regulations in a specific Pedestrian
Oriented District ordinance, if applicable. The Department of Building and
Safety shall not issue a change of use permit for any use not permitted in
Paragraph 2 of this subsection. (Added by Ord. No. 168,153, Eff. 9/13/92.)



 



   1.   Building Frontages shall conform to the following regulations:



 



   (a)   Blank Walls.  Blank walls in excess of 10 feet in width shall
not be permitted. Blank walls shall be relieved by transparent windows,
doors, recessed entryways, recessed courtyards, planters, murals, mosaic
tile, public art and/or other means of creating visual interest.



 



   (b)   Openings in Exterior Walls of Buildings or Between Buildings
for Vehicles. Any opening in an exterior wall of a building or between
buildings for purposes of vehicular entry shall not be permitted, except
where it is determined by the Department of Transportation that the location
of these driveways cannot be practicably placed elsewhere. Garage or parking
lot entrances shall not be permitted on Pedestrian Oriented Streets unless
the Department of Transportation determines that there is no other
alternative to the location of the garage or parking lot entrances.



 



   (c)   Openings in Exterior Building Walls Not for Vehicles.  On
Pedestrian Oriented Streets, openings in exterior building walls or building
setbacks which are used for plazas or courtyards with outdoor dining,
seating, water features, kiosks, paseos, open air vending or craft display
areas shall be permitted. Building setbacks not used for the above listed
permitted purposes shall be fully landscaped.



 



   (d)   Pedestrian Access. All new developments fronting on Pedestrian
Oriented Streets shall provide at least one entrance for pedestrians to each
Ground Floor.



 



   (e)   Pedestrian Views Into Buildings. At least 75 percent of the
building frontage at the ground floor of a building adjoining a Pedestrian
Oriented Street shall be devoted to entrances for pedestrians, display
windows or windows affording views into retail, office or lobby space. Non
reflective glass shall be used to allow maximum visibility from sidewalk
areas into the interior of buildings.



 



   (f)   Second Floors.  Building frontage on the floor immediately
above the ground floor shall be differentiated from the ground floor by
recessed windows, balconies, offset planes, awningsor other architectural
details, as determined by the Department of City Planning.



 



   (g)   Building Continuity With Openings. In the event a building
opening of 15 feet in width or greater is permitted pursuant to 1 (b) and 1
(c) of this subdivision, continuation of an architectural feature of the
ground floor building facade shall be required to retain continuity of a
building wall at the ground floor, as determined by the Department of City
Planning.



 



   (h)   Requirement for Ground Floor. Each building on a lot fronting
on a Pedestrian Oriented Street shall have a ground floor.



 



   2.   Uses Permitted Along The Ground Floor Building Frontage.  Any
use permitted by the underlying zone shall also be permitted on the Ground
Floor, except that uses on the Ground Floor along the Building Frontage shall
conform to the following:



 



   The floor area on the ground floor of a commercial building along at
least 75 percent of the Building Frontage, excluding the frontage used for
vehicular access to on-site parking, shall be devoted to neighborhood retail
and/or neighborhood services, except that any Financially-Oriented Service
may occupy only up to 50 percent of the Ground Floor along the Building
Frontage on each street frontage.



 



   3.   Uses Permitted Above The Ground Floor.  Any use permitted in
the underlying zone shall be permitted above the ground floor.



 



   4.   Yards. Yard requirements shall be as required by the underlying
zone, unless otherwise specified in an individual Pedestrian Oriented
District ordinance.



 



   5.   Height.



 



   (a)   The height of a building shall not exceed 40 feet. If the
underlying zone otherwise permits a height in excess of 40 feet, then any
portion of the building above 40 feet in height, including the roof and roof
structure, shall be set back from the front lot line at a 45 degree angle,
for a horizontal distance of not less than 20 feet.



 



   (b)   The height of a building adjacent to one or more cultural
resources shall not exceed a height that is within five feet of the weighted
average height of the adjacent cultural resource(s) or 30 feet, whichever is
greater. If the underlying zone otherwise permits a height above 30 feet,
then any portion of the building above 30 feet in height shall be set back
from the lot line at a 45 degree angle, for a horizontal distance of not more
than 20 feet.



 



   6.   Parking.



 



   (a)   No surface parking shall be permitted within 50 feet from any
Pedestrian Oriented Street right-of-way. The provisions of this paragraph
shall not apply if the Department of Transportation determines that there is
no other feasible alternative to the location of the parking.



 



   (b)   Any surface parking adjoining a Pedestrian Oriented Street
shall be screened by a solidwall having a continuous height of three and
one-half feet. In addition, the wall shall be separated from any adjacent
public right-of-way by a minimum continuous width of five feet of landscaped
area. If an architectural theme has been established for an individual POD,
then the wall shall be compatible with that theme. Surface parking lots shall
be landscaped with shade trees at the ratio of one tree for each four parking
spaces.



 



   (c)   All above-grade parking spaces visible from a public
right-of-way shall be screened architecturally or with landscaping.



 



   7.   Landscaping Standards.



 



   (a)   Prior to the issuance of a building permit, the Department of
Planning shall approve a landscape plan for new projects and parking areas.
In approving this plan, the Department shall find that trees, compatible in
size and variety with (b) below, are planted in all landscaped areas at the
highest practical density and that planted windows boxes, and hanging plant
baskets and flower beds in parking lots are provided, where possible. An
overall landscape plan may be developed for each individual POD to enhance a
chosen theme or style.



 



   (b)   Shade producing street trees shall be planted, where feasible,
at a ratio of at least one for each 25 feet of frontage at a distance no
greater than 10 feet from the curb. Elevated planters, tree grates and tree
guards shall be provided, where needed. Notwithstanding the above, (i) the
size, location and variety of trees shall be determined by the Department of
Public Works: (ii) where street lights are existing or proposed to be
installed, trees shall not be planted within 20 feet of the location of the
existing or proposed street light.



 



   (c)   An automatic irrigation system shall be provided for all
landscaped areas including shade trees and shall be indicated on landscape
plans. Property owners shall maintain all landscaping in good healthy
condition and shall keep planted areas free of weeds and trash.



 



   8.   Special Theme or Other Provisions.  A special theme or
architectural style may be defined for an individual POD. Special
requirements or guidelines directed at preserving such theme may be adopted
with the establishment of an individual POD. Such requirements may include,
but not be limited to, standards pertaining to uniform theme lighting, art
works, sculpture, landscaping, street furniture, sidewalk design, and
setbacks.



 



   9.   Signs.



 



   (a)   Notwithstanding any provision of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code to the contrary, no person shall erect the following signs as defined in
Section 91.6203 of the Los Angeles municipal Code:



 



   (i)   off-site commercial signs, except that existing legally
erected off-site commercial signs may be replaced on the same or a new site
provided that the location and sign otherwise meet all current ordinance
requirements of Division 62 (Signs), Section 91.6220 (Off-site signs);



 



   (ii)   pole signs,



 



   (iii)   projecting signs; or



 



   (iv)   roof signs advertising individual businesses.



 



   Signs advertising the entire POD are permitted if approved by the
Director of Planning.



 



   (b)   Monument signs and information signs for individual businesses
may be approved as part of an overall POD plan or design.



 



   11.   Utilities. Where possible, all new utility lines for any
individual building or proposed within a POD shall be installed underground.



 



   F.   Director’s Determination. If a proposed Project fails to meet
the development standards in Subsection E above, or the standards in a
specific pedestrian oriented district ordinance, whichever are applicable,
the applicant may apply to the Director of Planning for a Director’s
Determination. Such application shall be filed in the public office of the
Department of City Planning upon a form prescribed for that purpose. The
filing fee shall be equivalent to that established for “Approval of plan
required for Supplemental Use District”, set forth in Section 19.01A of the
Los Angeles Municipal Code. The application shall be accompanied by
architectural, landscape and structural plans for the Project, or other
information, to the satisfaction of the Director of Planning. All ground
floor uses for the Project shall be clearly identified.



 



   1.   Determination.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00,
Oper. 7/1/00.) The Director or the Director’s designee shall make a
determination of approval or conditional approval within 25 days of the
Department’s acceptance of an application.  Notice of the Director’s
determination shall be mailed to the applicant, the Councilmember in whose
District the project is located, and to all owners and lessees of property
within a radius of 500 feet of the project.  The determination by the
Director shall include written findings in support of the determination.  In
order to approve a proposed construction project pursuant to this subsection,
the Director must find that:



 



   (a)   If adjacent to a cultural resource that the project will be
compatible in scale (i.e., bulk, height, setbacks) to that resource.



 



   (b)   The project conforms with the intent of the development
regulations contained in Subsection E of this section.



 



   (c)   The project is compatible with the architectural character of
the Pedestrian Oriented District where the character is defined pursuant to
the ordinance establishing that district.



 



   (d)   The project complies with theme requirements or other special
provisions when required in the individual Pedestrian Oriented District.



 



   (e)   The project is consistent with the General Plan.



 



   2.   Appeals.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)  The determination of the Director shall become final after an
elapsed period of 15 days from the date of mailing of the determination to
the applicant, unless an appeal is filed with the Area Planning Commission
within that period.  Appeals shall be processed in accordance with Section
12.24B through I of this Code, except as otherwise provided here.



 



   3.   Notification to Department of Building and Safety. When a
determination of the Director becomes final, the Director or Director’s 
designee shall send a written notice of the determination to the Department
of Building and Safety.  If the Director approves the Project, this approval
shall be so indicated on the building permit application and building plans.



 



 



SEC. 13.08.  “CDO” COMMUNITY DESIGN OVERLAY DISTRICT.



   (New Sec. 13.08 Added by Ord. No. 172,032, Eff. 6/29/98.)



 



   A.   Purpose.  This section sets forth procedures and standards for
the establishment of Community Design Overlay Districts throughout the
City.  The purpose of the Community Design Overlay district is to:



 



   1.   Assure that development within communities is in accordance
with community design policies adopted in the Community Plans, and with the
Community Design Guidelines and Standards;



 



   2.   Promote the distinctive character, stability and visual quality
of existing neighborhoods and communities by ensuring that development
visually provides a sense of place in terms of design within the Community
Design Overlay District by considering the unique architectural character and
environmental setting of the district;



 



   3.   Assist in improving the visual attractiveness of multi-family
housing available to meet the needs of all social and economic groups within
the community;



 



   4.   Protect areas of natural scenic beauty,  cultural or
environmental interest;



 



   5.   Prevent the development of structures or uses which are not of
acceptable exterior design or appearance; and



 



   6.   Protect the integrity of previously attained entitlements.



 



   7.   Provide for on-going community involvement in project design
and evolution of guidelines.



 



   B.   Establishment of District.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff.
7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  The City Council may establish new districts, or
change boundaries of districts, by following the procedures set forth in
Section 12.32S of this Code.  A district may encompass all or portions of
the area of a community plan, as recommended by the policies of that plan. 
Precise boundaries are required at the time of application or initiation of
an individual Community Design Overlay District.  A Community Design Overlay
District shall not encompass an area designated as an Historic Preservation
Overlay Zone pursuant to Section 12.20.3 of this Code.



 



   C.   Definitions.  For the purpose of this section, the following
words and phrases are defined as follows:



 



   1.   Design Overlay Plans.  A document or documents which
pictorially describe, by professionally accepted architectural graphic
techniques, the location, appearance, configuration and dimensions of any
proposed buildings, structures and site improvements including but not
limited to landscaping, walls and fences, roof equipment, pole signs,
monument signs, and parking areas.



 



   2.   Project.  The erection, construction, addition to, or exterior
structural alteration of any building or structure, including, but not
limited to, pole signs and/or monument signs located in a Community Design
Overlay District.  A Project does not include construction that consists
solely of  (1)  interior remodeling, interior rehabilitation or repair
work;  (2)  alterations of, including structural repairs, or additions to
any existing building or structure in which the aggregate value of the work,
in any one 24-month period, is less than 50 percent of the building or
structure’s replacement value before the alterations or additions, as
determined by the Department of Building and Safety, unless the alterations
or additions are to any building facade facing a public street; or  (3)  a
residential building on a parcel or lot which is developed entirely as a
residential use and consists of four or fewer dwelling units, unless
expressly provided for in a Community Design Overlay District established
pursuant to this section.



 



   3.   Citizen Advisory Committee.  A committee appointed by the
Councilmember(s) pursuant to Subsection D2 of this section in whose District
a Community Design Overlay District is established, who shall assist the
Planning Department in the development of Design Guidelines and Standards.



 



   D.   Approval of Guidelines and Standards.  In establishing any
individual Community Design Overlay District, the Director of Planning shall
prepare, and the City Planning Commission shall approve by resolution,
Community Design Guidelines and Standards applicable to design overlay
areas.  These Guidelines and Standards shall be adopted or amended according
to the following procedures and criteria:



 



   1.   Initiation.  Preparation or amendment of the Guidelines and
Standards may be initiated by the Director of Planning, the City Planning
Commission or City Council.



 



   2.   Preparation and Content.  Upon initiation, the Director shall
prepare, or cause to be prepared, proposed Guidelines and Standards based on
the design policies contained in the Community Plan.  At the option of the
Council District, the Director shall utilize Advisory Boards in the
development of design standards for individual communities and
neighborhoods.  The Guidelines and Standards shall be organized into those
which are anticipated to be superseded by future citywide standards, and
those that are necessary to protect the unique architectural and
environmental features of the Community Design Overlay District.



 



   The Guidelines and Standards are in addition to those set forth in the
planning and zoning provisions of Los Angeles Municipal Code (LAMC) Chapter
I, as amended, and any other relevant ordinances and do not convey any rights
not otherwise granted under the provisions and procedures contained in that
chapter and other relevant ordinances, except as specifically provided herein.



 



   Furthermore, nothing in the Guidelines and Standards shall interfere
with any previously granted entitlements, nor shall they restrict any right
authorized in the underlying zone or height district.



 



   At the option of the Councilmember(s), a Citizen Advisory Committee
shall be appointed to assist in development of Guidelines and Standards. 
The Citizen Advisory Committee shall be appointed by the Councilmember in
whose district the Community Design Overlay District is established, and the
committee shall consist of a minimum of five and a maximum of seven voting
members, each serving a term of office of four years, the terms being
staggered so that at least one term becomes vacated on each successive
year.  The chairperson and vice chairperson shall be elected annually by a
majority of the committee.  The suggested composition of membership is as
follows: two architects and two professionals from the following or related
fields: planning, urban design and landscape architecture, or construction. 
The remaining member or members need not be design professionals.  All
members shall reside, operate a business, or be employed within the community
plan area(s) in which the Community Design Overlay District is located.



 



   3.   Commission Hearing and Notice.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268,
Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  The proposed or amended Guidelines and
Standards shall be set for a public hearing before the City Planning
Commission or a hearing officer as directed by the City Planning Commission
prior to the Commission action.  Notice of the hearing shall be given as
provided in Section 12.24D2 of this Code.



 



   4.   Reports.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.) If a hearing officer is designated to conduct the public hearing,
after the conclusion of the hearing, the hearing officer shall submit his
report to the City Planning Commission within a period of time as may be
fixed by the Commission, setting forth his or her conclusions and
recommendations in writing and stating briefly the reasons therefor.



 



   5.   Decision by City Planning Commission.  (Amended by Ord. No.
173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  The City Planning Commission shall, by
resolution, approve, modify or disapprove the proposed Guidelines and
Standards.  If the City Planning Commission fails to act within 75 days from
the receipt of the report and recommendation of the Planning Department, the
proposed Guidelines and Standards shall be automatically submitted to the
City Council for action.  In approving the Guidelines and Standards, the
City Planning Commission or Council shall find that they are consistent with
the policies of the adopted Community Plan and the purposes of this section.



 



   E.   Design Overlay Plan Approvals.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268,
Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  Within a Community Design Overlay District, no
building permit shall be issued for any project, and no person shall perform
any construction work on a Project, until a Design Overlay Plan has been
submitted and approved according to the following procedures.  No building
permit shall be issued for any project, and no person shall do any
construction work on a project except in conformance with the approved Design
Overlay Plan.



 



   EXCEPTION:



 



   No Design Overlay Plan approval shall be required for any project
until  the Guidelines and Standards have been approved.



 



   1.   Approval Authority.  The Director of Planning, or his or her
designee, shall approve or conditionally approve Design Overlay Plans if the
plans comply with the provisions of approved Community Design Guidelines and
Standards.  An approval of a Design Overlay Plan by the Director of
Planning, or his or her designee, shall be appealable to the Area Planning
Commission.



 



   2.   Procedures.



 



   (a)   Application.  An application for a Design Overlay Plan
approval shall be filed with the Department of City Planning on the
prescribed form, and shall be accompanied by any required materials.  The
application shall not be considered complete unless and until the form has
been properly completed, all required information has been provided and the
filing fee set forth in Section 19.01T of this Code has been paid.



 



   (b)   Action of Director.  The Director of Planning, or his or her
designee, shall make a determination within 20 working days from the date of
the filing of a completed application and the payment of the applicable
fee.  This time limit may be extended by mutual written agreement of the
applicant and the Director.



 



   (c)   Transfer of Jurisdiction.  If the Director or his or her
designee fails to make a determination within the prescribed time period, the
applicant may file a request for a transfer of jurisdiction to the Area
Planning Commission for a determination on the original application, in which
case, the Director shall lose jurisdiction.  This request shall be filed in
the public office of the Department of City Planning.  Once filed, the
request and the Department file shall be transmitted to the Area Planning
Commission for action.



 



   3.   Findings.  The Director of Planning, or the Area Planning
Commission on appeal, shall approve a Design Overlay Plan as requested or in
modified form if, based on the application and the evidence submitted, if the
Director or Area Commission determines that it satisfies all of the following
requirements:



 



   (a)   The project substantially complies with the adopted Community
Design Overlay Guidelines and Standards.



 



   (b)   The structures, site plan and landscaping are harmonious in
scale and design with existing development and any cultural, scenic or
environmental resources adjacent to the site and in the vicinity.



 



   4.   Notice of Director’s Determination.  Within five working
days following the decision, a Notice of the Director’s Determination, and
copies of the approved plans, shall be mailed to the applicant, the
Councilmember in whose district the Project is located, the Citizen Advisory
Committee, and any persons or organizations commenting on the application or
requesting a Notice.



 



   5.   Effective Date and Appeal.



 



   (a)   The Director’s determination shall become effective and
final 15 days after the date of mailing the Notice of Director’s
Determination to the applicant, unless an appeal is filed with the Area
Planning Commission within that period.



 



   (b)   An applicant, member of the City Council, or any other
interested person adversely affected may appeal the Director’s decision to
the Area Commission.  Appeals shall be processed in the manner prescribed in
Section 16.05H of this Code, except as otherwise provided here.



 



   6.   Notice to Building and Safety.  The Director of Planning shall
notify the Department of Building and Safety of the final approval action of
the Design Overlay Plan.



 



 



SEC. 13.09.  MIXED USE DISTRICT.



   (New Sec. 13.09 Added by Ord. No. 172,171, Eff. 9/27/98.)



 



   A.   Purpose.  The purpose of the Mixed Use District is to
implement the General Plan by encouraging land uses that combine Commercial
Uses and dwelling units in order to reduce vehicle trips and vehicle miles
traveled by locating residents, jobs, and services near each other; to
improve air quality through a reduction of vehicle trips and vehicle miles
traveled; to support the transit system; to promote economic vitality and the
revitalization of areas of special need; to provide for a variety of housing
opportunities, including senior housing; to improve the efficiency of public
services, systems, and utilities; to promote design quality and flexibility;
and to promote pleasing and interesting urban form and architecture.  Areas
proximate to mass transit stations and major bus routes are appropriate
locations for Mixed Use Districts.



 



   B.   Establishment of District.



 



   1.   Requirements.  A Mixed Use District may only include lots in
the R5, CR, C1, C1.5, C2, C4, or C5 zones.  Lots in the R3 or R4 zones may
also be included in a Mixed Use District if they (1) abut a designated major
or secondary highway; and (2) are also located in a Community Plan designated
regional or community center.



 



   A Mixed Use District shall contain no less than one Block Face.  The
total acreage in a Mixed Use District shall include contiguous parcels of
land which may only be separated by public streets, alleys, or other physical
features, or as determined by the Director of Planning, or his/her
designee.  Precise boundaries are required to be delineated at the time of
application or initiation of an individual rezoning application to Mixed Use
District.



 



   A Mixed Use District shall be consistent with the intent and purposes
of the applicable Community Plan.  If, as determined by the Director of
Planning or his/her designee, the provisions of this section conflict with
those of an adopted specific plan, then the provisions of the specific plan
shall prevail.  If the provisions of this section conflict with any other
citywide regulations except an adopted specific plan, then the provisions of
this section shall prevail.  If “Q” or “D” limitations have been
imposed on a lot, then the most restrictive requirement shall prevail.



 



   2.   Standard Provisions and Permitted Modifications.  In
establishing an individual Mixed Use District, all of the standard provisions
set forth in Subsection C, Uses; Subsection D, Yards; Subsection E,
Development Incentives; Subsection F, Development Standards; and Subsection
G, Pedestrian Orientation, shall apply.



 



   However, based on an appropriate consideration of the proposed
district’s character, needs, and development potential, and the goals,
objectives, and policies set forth in the applicable Community Plan, some of
the standard provisions set forth in Subsections C or E may be eliminated or
modified, as further described below.



 



   3.   Definitions.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this
article to the contrary, the following definitions shall apply to this
section:



 



   Automotive Uses means automobile and trailer sales areas, automobile
dismantling yards, automotive fueling and service stations, and automotive
repair uses as defined in Section 12.03.



 



   Block Face is a lot or a group of lots that abuts on at least three
sides a public street or other physical feature, or as determined by the
Director of Planning, or his or her designee.



 



   Building Frontage means the maximum length of a line or lines formed by
connecting the points representing projections of the exterior building walls
onto a public street or onto a courtyard that is directly accessible by
pedestrians from a public street, whichever distance is greater.



 



   Central Parking Structure is a parking structure or surface lot
accessible to and available for use by the public and identified as a Central
Parking Structure in the individual ordinance establishing the Mixed Use
District.



 



   Commercial Uses means those uses as first permitted in the CR, C1,
C1.5, C2, C4, or C5 zones, including guest rooms and hotels as defined in
Section 12.03 and Community Facilities as defined by this section.



 



   Community Facilities means the following uses as first permitted by the
CR zone and designed to serve the community-at-large: non-profit museums or
libraries; child or adult day care facilities or nursery schools; churches or
houses of worship (except rescue missions or temporary revivals); community
centers or meeting rooms owned and operated by a governmental agency or
non-profit organization; cultural centers owned and operated by a
governmental agency or non-profit organization; schools, elementary or high;
educational institutions; police substations; and telecommuting centers.



 



   Corner Lot means a lot located at the intersection of at least two
streets designated on the Transportation Element of the General Plan as
either a major, secondary, or other highway classification, or a collector
street.  At least one of the streets at the intersection must be a
designated highway.



 



   Facade Treatment is a rooftop architectural embellishment such as a
Mansard roof that is constructed on the street-facing side of a Mixed Use
Project.



 



   Ground Floor is the lowest story within a building which is accessible
from the street, the floor level of which is within three feet above or below
curb level.



 



   Major Bus Center means the intersection of two bus routes, one of which
is a major bus route.



 



   Major Bus Route means a bus route that is served by bus lines with
evening peak hour headways of fifteen minutes or less and shown on a map
approved by and reviewed annually by the City Planning Commission.  A bus
route is one that is currently in operation within the route network of the
Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority, its successor
agencies or other municipal transit operators but not including the City of
Los Angeles’ DASH system or its successor agencies.



 



   Mass Transit Station is a portal or platform at a transit stop for a
fixed rail transit system.  Portal means the street-level entrance, exit, or
escalator.  A Mass Transit Station is a facility that is currently in use,
that a full funding contract for a proposed station’s location and portals
has been signed by all funding partners, or one that a resolution to fund a
preferred alignment has been adopted by the Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transportation Authority or its successor agency which resolution details
specific station and portal locations.



 



   Mixed Use Project means a Project which combines one or more Commercial
Uses and multiple dwelling units in a single building or in a Unified
Development and which provides the following:



 



   (1)   a separate, Ground Floor entrance to the residential
component, or a lobby that serves both the residential and Commercial Uses
components; and



 



   (2)   a pedestrian entrance to the Commercial Uses component that is
directly accessible from a public street, and that is open during the normal
business hours posted by the business.



 



   A minimum of 35 percent of the Ground Floor Building Frontage abutting
a public commercially zoned street, excluding driveways or pedestrian
entrances, must be designed to accommodate Commercial Uses to a minimum depth
of 25 feet.



 



   Pedestrian Amenities means outdoor sidewalk cafes, public plazas,
retail courtyards, water features, kiosks, paseos, arcades, patios, covered
walkways, or spaces for outdoor dining or seating that are located on the
Ground Floor, and that are accessible to and available for use by the public.



 



   Project means the construction of a commercial, residential, or Mixed
Use Project in a single building or in a Unified Development.



 



   Unified Development means a development of two or more buildings which
have functional linkages such as pedestrian or vehicular connections, with
common architectural and landscape features which constitute distinctive
design elements of the development, and that appears to be a consolidated
whole when viewed from adjoining streets.  Unified Developments may include
two or more contiguous parcels or lots of record separated only by a street
or alley.



 



   4.   Findings.  In order to establish a Mixed Use District, the
City Council must find that adequate infrastructure exists (including, but
not limited to, schools, streets, and sewers) to support any added
development permitted by the district.



 



   C.   Uses.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter to
the contrary, the following provisions shall apply:



 



   1.   Community Facilities that are part of a Mixed Use Project are
permitted in the R3 or R4 zones if the lot or lots abut a Major Bus Route.



 



   2.   Commercial Uses that are part of a Mixed Use Project are
permitted on lots in the R5 zone, except Automotive Uses as defined in
Section 13.09 B 3 and open storage, including incidental open storage.



 



   3.   Projects comprised exclusively of dwelling units are not
permitted on lots in the CR, C1, C1.5, C2, C4, or C5 zone, except with the
approval of the Zoning Administrator pursuant to Section 12.27I23.  However,
the individual ordinance establishing a Mixed use District may amend this
provision and permit Projects comprised exclusively of dwelling units in all
or parts of the District.



 



   4.   If the City Council finds that further restricting the uses in
a Mixed Use District is appropriate in light of the proposed district’s
character, needs, and development potential, and the goals, policies, and
objectives set forth in the applicable Community Plan, then the Council may
do so in the ordinance establishing the district.



 



   D.   Yards.  Notwithstanding any other provisions of this article
to the contrary, the following yards shall apply to Mixed Use Projects:



 



   1.   The yards of the CR zone shall apply to the non-residential
component on lots in the R3 or R4 zones.



 



   2.   The following yards shall apply to lots in the R5 zone:



 



   (a)   The yards of the C2 zone shall apply to the non-residential
component.



 



   (b)   No yards shall apply to the residential component if it abuts
a street, private street, or alley.



 



   E.   Development Incentives.  Notwithstanding any other provisions
of this chapter to the contrary, the following development incentives shall
apply in Mixed Use Districts:



 



   1.   Housing.  The individual ordinance establishing a Mixed Use
District shall establish an incentive for dwelling units in Mixed Use
Projects.  The amount of the incentive shall be based on an appropriate
consideration of the proposed district’s character, needs, and development
potential, and the goals, policies, and objectives set forth in the
applicable Community Plan.



 



   The incentive shall be shown on the “Zoning Map” by use of the
capital letters “MU” for Mixed Use Projects and “C” for Commercial
Uses, preceded by the applicable numerical limits.  The first two-digit
number before the diagonal line shall indicate the maximum height
permitted.  The first number after the diagonal line, which may include a
decimal fraction, shall indicate the maximum permitted floor area ratio
(FAR).  For example, a Mixed Use District zoned C2 45/2.0-MU 35/1.5-C means
that a Mixed Use Project may not exceed a maximum height of 45 feet for the
entire Project or an FAR of 2.0.  The Commercial Uses in a Mixed Use Project
would be restricted to a maximum FAR of 1.5.  Projects comprised exclusively
of Commercial Uses would be restricted to a maximum height of 35 feet and a
maximum FAR of 1.5.  If the letter “U” appears before the diagonal line
instead of a number, then an unlimited height is permitted.



 



   (a)   If a height or FAR housing incentive would result in a maximum
height or FAR which exceeds that of the underlying base zone, then the
Project may not proceed until the height district of the base zone is changed.



 



   (b)   The minimum dwelling unit FAR for Mixed Use Projects with a
total FAR of 6.0 or greater is 1.5



 



   (c)   The lot area requirements of the R5 zone shall apply to Mixed
Use Projects with a total FAR of 6.0 or greater.



 



   2.   Pedestrian Amenities.  Pedestrian Amenities shall not be
included in the calculation of permitted FAR.



 



   3.   Parking.  If a proposed Mixed Use District includes lots
within 1,500 feet of a Mass Transit Station or Major Bus Center, or lots
within 750 feet of a Central Parking Structure, then the individual ordinance
establishing the Mixed Use District shall include a parking incentive which
specifies a reduction in the number of parking spaces required by Section
12.21A4.  Provided, however, a minimum of two spaces for every 1,000 square
feet of non-residential floor area shall be required.  In determining the
appropriate level of parking reduction, the City Council shall consider such
factors as local transit dependency and automobile usage, traffic, available
parking, and level of transit service, and the goals, policies, and
objectives set forth in the applicable Community Plan.



 



   (a)   Transit Facilities.  The transit facility incentive shall be
restricted to dwelling units and Commercial Uses in Mixed Use Projects within
1,500 feet of a Mass Transit Station or Major Bus Center.



 



   (b)   Central Parking Structures.  The Central Parking Structure
incentive shall be restricted to Commercial Uses within 750 feet of a Central
Parking Structure.  To make use of this incentive, the owner(s) of the
Central Parking Structure must execute and record in the Los Angeles County
Recorder’s Office, a covenant and agreement for the benefit of the City of
Los Angeles which provides that the required parking shall be maintained in
perpetuity or until the Director of Planning determines that it is no longer
necessary.  This incentive may not be combined with the transit facility
incentive set forth in (a) above.



 



   (c)   Measurement of Distance.  Distance from a transit facility or
Central Parking Structure shall be measured as specified in Section
12.21A4(g).



 



   (d)   Downtown Exceptions.  The parking incentive for dwelling
units as set forth in Section 13.09E3(a) above shall not be authorized in the
Parking Exception Area for the Central City as described in Section
12.21A4(p).  The parking incentive for Commercial Uses as set forth in
Section 13.09E3(a) and (b) above shall not be authorized in the Downtown
Business District Exception Area as described in Section 12.21A4(I).



 



   (e)   Affordable Housing.  The transit facility and Central Parking
Structure incentives set forth above shall not be combined with the parking
reduction provided for affordable housing as set forth in Section
12.22A25(d)(2).



 



   4.   Facade Treatments, Corner Lots, and Community Facilities. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.) Each Mixed Use Project shall be
entitled to one of the following incentives by right.  To obtain an
entitlement for two or more of these incentives, the approval of the Zoning
Administrator pursuant to Section 12.24W28 is required.



 



   (a)   Facade Treatments.  Unless eliminated or modified by the
individual ordinance establishing a Mixed Use District, if the maximum height
otherwise permitted by the underlying zone or established pursuant to Section
13.09E1 above is less than 100 feet, then a Mixed Use Project is entitled to
an increase in height of no more than ten feet, provided that the additional
height is used for a Facade Treatment.



 



   The individual ordinance establishing the Mixed Use District may not
modify the following restrictions:



 



   (1)   The Facade Treatment incentive may not be utilized on lots
adjacent to or abutting an RW1 or more restrictive zone as defined by
Sections 12.04 or 12.23;



 



   (2)   The Facade Treatment incentive may not be combined with the
Corner Lot incentive described in Paragraph (b) below; and



 



   (3)   The Facade Treatment incentive may not be used for signs or to
increase the floor area of a structure.



 



   (b)   Corner Lots.  Unless eliminated or modified by the individual
ordinance establishing a Mixed Use District, a Mixed Use Project on a Corner
Lot is entitled to an increase in height, FAR, and residential density for
dwelling units that is 20 percent greater than what is otherwise permitted by
the underlying zone or what is established pursuant to Section 13.09E1 above.



 



   The individual ordinance establishing the Mixed Use District may not
modify the following restrictions:



   (1)   Unless a conditional use permit pursuant to Section 12.24 W 28
is also obtained, a Mixed Use Project which secures an affordable housing
density bonus pursuant to California Government Code Section 65915 shall not
also be entitled to the Corner Lot incentive; and



 



   (2)   The Corner Lot incentive may not be utilized on lots adjacent
to or abutting an RW1 Zone or a more restrictive zone as defined by Sections
12.04 or 12.23.



 



   (c)   Community Facilities.  Unless modified by the individual
ordinance establishing the Mixed Use District, no more than 75 percent of the
total floor area of a child or adult day care facility, community meeting
room, cultural center, museum or telecommuting center shall be included in
the calculation of permitted FAR.



 



   5.   Mini-Shopping Centers and Commercial Corner Developments. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 172,350, Eff. 1/30/99.)  Mixed Use Projects are exempt
from the regulations governing Mini-Shopping Centers and Commercial Corner
Developments as set forth in Section 12.22A23.



 



   F.   Development Standards.  Notwithstanding the requirements of
any other provision of this chapter to the contrary, all Projects shall
comply with the following development standards.



 



   1.   Landscaping and Surface Parking Lots.  (Amended by Ord. No.
175,223, Eff. 6/30/03.)  Landscaping of Projects and surface parking lots
shall be provided in accordance with the requirements set forth in Sections
12.41, 12.42, 12.43 and 12.22 A.23.(10)(ii) (mini-shopping centers and
commercial corner developments) of the Code.  Projects must also comply with
the following additional requirements:



 



   (a)   Open Areas.  All open areas not used for buildings,
driveways, parking, recreational facilities, or Pedestrian Amenities shall be
landscaped by shrubs, trees, ground cover, lawns, planter boxes, flowers, or
fountains.



 



   (b)   Pavement.  Paved areas, excluding parking and driveway areas,
shall consist of enhanced paving materials such as stamped concrete,
permeable paved surfaces, tile, and/or brick pavers.



   (c)   Street Trees.  At least one 24-inch box street tree shall be
planted in the public right-of-way on center, or in a pattern satisfactory to
the Bureau of Street Maintenance, for every 25 feet of street frontage.



 



   2.   Open Space.  All Projects shall comply with the open space
requirements for six or more residential units pursuant to Section 12.21G.



 



   3.   Facade Relief.  Building Frontage shall be designed to comply
with the following requirements.  These standards do not apply to accessory
buildings, additions, remodels, or any change of use in an existing building.



 



   (a)   Horizontal architectural treatments and/or facade
articulations such as cornices, friezes, balconies, awnings, Pedestrian
Amenities, or other features shall be provided for every 30 feet of building
height visible from a street.



 



   (b)   If a Project includes 40 or more feet of Building Frontage
visible from a street, then vertical architectural treatments and/or facade
articulations such as columns, pilasters, indentations, or other features
shall be provided for every 25 feet.  The minimum width of each vertical
break shall be eight feet and the minimum depth shall be two feet.



 



   4.   Signage.  Signage shall comply with the requirements of
Section 12.22 A.23.(a)(6) (mini-shopping centers and commercial corner
developments).  (Amended by Ord. No. 175,223, Eff. 6/30/03.)



 



   5.   Noise Control.  Any dwelling unit exterior wall including
windows and doors having a line of sight to a major highway, secondary
highway, or other designated highway shall be constructed so as to provide a
Sound Transmission Class of 50 or greater, as defined in the Uniform Building
Code Standard No. 35-1, 1979 Edition.  The developer, as an alternative, may
retain an acoustical engineer to submit evidence, along with the application
for a building permit, specifying any alternative means of sound insulation
sufficient to reduce interior noise levels below 45dBA in any habitable room.



 



   6.   Rooftop Appurtenances.  All ventilation, heating, or air
conditioning ducts, tubes, equipment, or other related rooftop appurtenances
shall be screened when viewed from adjacent streets.



 



   G.   Pedestrian Orientation.  The individual ordinance establishing
a Mixed Use District, may designate some or all of the lots in the district
as “pedestrian oriented.”  The decision as to which lots shall be
designated as “pedestrian oriented” shall be based on an appropriate
consideration of the proposed district’s character, needs, and development
potential, and the goals, policies, and objectives set forth in the
applicable Community Plan.



 



   The following development standards, in addition to the development
standards set forth in Subsection F above, shall apply to all Projects
constructed on lots designated as pedestrian oriented.  These standards
shall not apply to accessory buildings, additions, remodels, or any change of
use in an existing building.



 



   1.   Ground Floor Commercial Uses.  One hundred percent of the
Ground Floor Building Frontage abutting a public commercially zoned street,
excluding driveways or pedestrian entrances, shall be designed to accommodate
Commercial Uses to a minimum depth of 25 feet.



 



   2.   Building Frontage.  Building Frontage shall, for its first 15
feet of height, be located within five feet of the front lot line and within
five feet of a side yard lot line adjacent to a public street and shall
extend at least 65 percent of the length of the lot line.



 



   3.   Pedestrian Amenities.  Notwithstanding the Building Frontage
requirements in 2 above, if a Pedestrian Amenity is provided, the required
Building Frontage may be set back up to 15 feet along the portion of that
amenity.



 



   4.   Location of Pedestrian Entrances.  Each individual tenant or
business space located on the Ground Floor shall have an entrance directly
accessible from the street at the same grade as the sidewalk, and the
entrance shall remain open during the normal business hours posted by the
business.



 



   5.   Openings in Building Frontages for Vehicular Access. 
Vehicular access shall be provided from side streets or alleys if
available.  Where side street or alley access is not available, not more
than one 20-foot wide driveway shall be provided per 100 feet of Building
Frontage, and not more than two driveways shall be permitted per building.



 



   6.   Parking.  Surface parking lots or parking structures shall be
located behind the required Building Frontage, in the rear, interior portion
of the lot that does not front on the street.



 



   7.   Transparency of Building Frontage.  Building Frontage shall
comply with the requirements of Section 12.22 A.23.(a)(3) (mini-shopping
centers and commercial corner developments).  (Amended by Ord. No. 175,223,
Eff. 6/30/03.)



 



 



SEC. 13.10.  FENCE HEIGHTS DISTRICT.



   (New Sec. 13.10 Added by Ord. No. 172,460, Eff. 3/22/99.)



 



   A.   Purpose.  This section sets forth procedures, guidelines and
standards for the establishment of Fence Height Districts (FH) in residential
areas of the City.  The purpose of the Fence Height District (FH) is to
permit open wrought iron fences in the front yards of properties in
residential zones to be higher than normally permitted by this Code in areas
where special circumstances such as a high rate of residential burglary or
other crimes, or the character of the neighborhood necessitates the erection
of those fences.



 



   B.   Establishment of Districts.  The procedures set forth in
Section 12.32 S. shall be followed except that each Fence Height District
(FH) shall include only lots which are in residential zones, and shall not
include lots which are in Hillside Areas, in the Coastal Zone, in Historic
Preservation Overlay Zones, or in Specific Plan Areas.  (Amended by Ord. No.
177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.)



 



   C.   Development Regulations. Fences not exceeding six feet in
height above the adjacent natural ground level are permitted in the required
front yards of lots in a Fence Height District (FH), provided that:



 



   1.   The fences are of open wrought iron, with any solid portion of
the fence, including vegetation or similar obstruction, not exceeding three
and one-half feet in height.



 



   2.   The fences may be supported by solid six-foot high pilasters
with a maximum dimension of 24 inches and spaced not less than eight feet
apart on center.



 



   3.   No vertical wrought iron member shall be greater than 5/8
inches in diameter nor spaced less than four inches apart on center.



 



   4.   No horizontal wrought iron member shall be greater than one
inch in diameter nor spaced less than 18 inches apart on center.



 



   5.   No vegetation of any type which produces a hedge-like effect
shall be allowed to grow upon or adjacent to the fence to a height above
three foot six inches.



 



   6.   The wrought iron fence and pilasters shall be setback from the
front property line a minimum of 18 inches and shall be maintained with
landscaping and serviced by an automatic irrigation system.



 



   7.   A minimum five-foot by five-foot cut corner shall be provided
wherever the wrought iron fence meets the driveway.



 



   8.   All lighting fixtures supported by the fence, if provided,
shall be in full compliance with the Los Angeles Municipal Code with regard
to illumination and an after-hours inspection shall be requested by the owner
to assure levels of illumination are acceptable.  This inspection shall be
conducted by the Lighting Enforcement Division of the Department of Building
and Safety and a fee paid for the inspection by the applicant.



 



   9.   Any driveway gate(s) shall be of open wrought iron, and if
provided, shall be no more than six feet in height and shall either be
sliding or be designed to open inward to the property.  If an electric
driveway gate of open wrought iron is provided, it shall have a gate operator
approved by an approved testing laboratory and shall incorporate a safety
device to interrupt gate operation in case the gate becomes blocked.



 



   10.   A 10-foot by 10-foot visibility triangle pursuant to Section
12.21C7(a) shall be provided on corner lots and the fence shall be clear of
any obstruction above three feet six inches.



 



   11.   If any pilaster is within five feet of a driveway, a convex
mirror at least 12 inches in diameter shall be placed so as to provide
visibility in the direction blocked by the pilaster for the drivers of
vehicles exiting the driveway.



 



 



SEC. 13.11.  “SN” SIGN DISTRICT.



   (Added by Ord. No. 174,552, Eff. 6/16/02.)



 



   A.   Purpose.  This section sets forth procedures, guidelines and
standards for the establishment of “SN” Sign Districts in areas of the
City, the unique characteristics of which can be enhanced by the imposition
of special sign regulations designed to enhance the theme or unique qualities
of that district, or which eliminate blight through a sign reduction program.



 



   B.   Establishment of Districts.  The procedures set forth in
Section 12.32S shall be followed, however each “SN” Sign District shall
include only properties in the C or M Zones, except that R5 Zone properties
may be included in a “SN” Sign District provided that the R5 zoned lot is
located within an area designated on an adopted community plan as a
“Regional Center,” “Regional Commercial,” or “High Intensity
Commercial,” or within any redevelopment project area.  No “SN” Sign
District shall contain less than one block or three acres in area, whichever
is the smaller.  The total acreage in the district shall include contiguous
parcels of land which may only be separated by public streets, ways or
alleys, or other physical features, or as set forth in the rules approved by
the Director of Planning.  Precise boundaries are required at the time of
application for or initiation of an individual district.



 



   C.   Development Regulations.  The Department of Building and
Safety shall not issue a building permit for a sign within a “SN” Sign
District unless the sign conforms to the regulations set forth in a specific
“SN” Sign District ordinance.  The development regulations for each
“SN” Sign District shall be determined at the time the district is
established, except that definitions shall conform with those found in
Section 91.6203 of this Code, if defined in that section.  The sign
regulations shall enhance the character of the district by addressing the
location, number, square footage, height, light illumination, hours of
illumination, sign reduction program, duration of signs, design and types of
signs permitted, as well as other characteristics, and can include murals,
supergraphics, and other on-site and off-site signs.  However, the
regulations for a “SN” Sign District cannot supersede the regulations of
an Historic Preservation Overlay District, a legally-adopted specific plan,
supplemental use district or zoning regulation needed to implement the
provisions of an approved development agreement.



 



 



SEC. 13.12.  "NSO" NEIGHBORHOOD STABILIZATION OVERLAY DISTRICT.



   (Added by Ord. No. 180,219, Eff. 11/16/08.)



 



   A.   Purpose.  This section sets forth procedures, guidelines and
standards for the establishment of "NSO" Neighborhood Stabilization Overlay
Districts in areas of the City that are proximate to colleges and
universities.  The purpose of the NSO District is to protect and preserve
the existing low density housing stock; to maintain and enhance the quality
of life of area residents; to promote well-planned student housing; to
establish regulations that address the negative impacts multi-habitable room
projects cause; to address inadequate parking; to prevent irreversible damage
associated with oversized multi-habitable room projects and to help stabilize
neighborhoods.  The purpose of the NSO District is also to ensure that
future Projects are designed to be compatible with buildings that are
adjacent or across the street.



 



   B.   Establishment of the District.



 



   1.   Requirements.  Each application for the establishment of a
"NSO" Neighborhood Stabilization Overlay District shall follow the procedures
set forth in Section 12.32 S. of this Code, except that each "NSO"
Neighborhood Stabilization Overlay District shall include only properties in
the R2, RD, R3, RAS, R4, R5, CR, C1, C1.5, C2, C4, C5 or CM zones.



 



   2.   Radius.  The radius of a "NSO" Neighborhood Stabilization
Overlay District shall be at least one-quarter mile and no more than one mile
from the physical boundaries of a college or university.  The District shall
not generally be less than one-quarter mile radius wide.



 



   3.   Boundaries.  The boundaries shall be along street frontages
and shall not split parcels.  The precise boundary of a District may be
adjusted for urban features such as topography, freeways or streets /
highways.  Precise boundaries are required at the time of application for or
initiation of an individual District.  The "NSO" Neighborhood Stabilization
Overlay District shall include contiguous parcels of residentially and
commercially zoned parcels, which may only be separated by public streets,
ways or alleys or other physical features, or as set forth in the rules
approved by the Director of Planning.  A "NSO" Neighborhood Stabilization
Overlay District may encompass an area that is designated, in whole or in
part, as a Historic Preservation Overlay Zone and/or Specific Plan area.



 



   4.   Definitions.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this
article to the contrary, the following definitions shall apply to this
section:



 



   Affordable Housing Units.  Dwelling units or guest rooms for which
rental payments do not exceed the limits established by the Housing and
Community Investment Department for persons and families whose income does
not exceed 30%-120% of Area Median Income (AMI), adjusted for family size by
the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development in accordance
with adjustment factors established and amended from time to time pursuant to
Section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937.  The income limits are
defined as lower, low, moderate, very low, or extremely low income households
in Sections 50079.5, 50093, 50105 and 50106 of the California Health and
Safety Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,718, Eff. 10/30/13.)



 



   Area Median Income (AMI).  The median income in Los Angeles County as
determined annually by the California Department of Housing and Community
Development (HCD) or any successor agency, adjusted for household size.



 



   Project.  The construction, erection, addition to, enlargement of or
reconfiguration of any one-family dwelling or multiple-family dwelling units
or portions of dwelling units in the R2, RD, R3, RAS, R4, R5, CR, C1, C1.5,
C2, C4, C5 or CM zones that create at least one dwelling unit with five or
more habitable rooms.



 



   A project shall not include any of the following uses:



 



   (1)   Dormitories on an official college or university campus; or



 



   (2)   Any qualifying Affordable Housing Units.



 



   5.   Findings.  In order to establish a "NSO" Neighborhood
Stabilization Overlay District, the City Council shall find that Neighborhood
Stabilization Overlay regulations will protect and enhance the character of
the District by regulating building bulk caused by buildings with five or
more habitable rooms per unit; and that the District is negatively impacted
by excessive on-street parking resulting from residential units designed for
student housing, which do not provide adequate off-street parking.



 



   C.   Development Regulations.  All property within a District shall
be subject to the following conditions:



 



   1.   Building Permit.  The Department of Building and Safety shall
not issue a building permit for a Project within a "NSO" Neighborhood
Stabilization Overlay District unless a conditional use approval has been
granted pursuant to Section 12.24 W.52. of this Code.



 



   2.   Parking Requirements.  Any Project shall, in addition to
complying with the parking requirements of Section 12.21 A.4.(a) of this
Code, also provide one additional parking space for each habitable room at or
above five habitable rooms.



 



 



SEC. 13.13.  “RFA” RESIDENTIAL FLOOR AREA DISTRICT.



(Added by Ord. No. 179,883, Eff. 6/29/08.)



 



   A.   Purpose.  This section sets forth procedures and guidelines
for the establishment of “RFA” Residential Floor Area Districts in
residential areas of the City.  The purpose of the “RFA” Residential
Floor Area District is to permit residential floor area maximums in
residential zones to be higher or lower than normally permitted by this Code
in areas where the proposed district will further enhance the existing scale
of homes and help to preserve the existing character of the neighborhood as
effectively as the residential floor area limitations established in this
Code; and where the increased or decreased residential floor area maximums
will be consistent with the policies and objectives set forth in the
applicable Community Plan.



 



   B.   Establishment of the District.  The procedures set forth in
Section 12.32 S. of this Code shall be followed, however each “RFA”
Residential Floor Area District shall include only properties in the RA, RE,
RS, or R1 zones.  The district shall not generally be less than 100 acres in
area.  The precise boundary of a district may be adjusted for urban features
such as topography, freeways or streets/ highways.  Boundaries shall be
along street frontages and shall not split parcels.  An “RFA”
Residential Floor Area District may encompass an area, which is designated,
in whole or in part, as a Historic Preservation Overlay Zone and/or Specific
Plan.  The “RFA” Residential Floor Area District shall include
contiguous parcels, which may only be separated by public streets, ways or
alleys or other physical features, or as set forth in the rules approved by
the Director of Planning.  Precise boundaries are required at the time of
application for or initiation of an individual district.



 



   C.   Development Regulations.  The Department of Building and
Safety shall not issue a building permit for a residential structure within
an “RFA” Residential Floor Area District unless the residential structure
conforms to the regulations set forth in a specific “RFA” Residential
Floor Area District.  The development regulations for each “RFA”
Residential Floor Area District shall be determined at the time the district
is established.  The development regulations shall enhance the character of
the district.



 



 



SEC. 13.14.  "CPIO" COMMUNITY PLAN IMPLEMENTATION OVERLAY DISTRICT.



   (Added by Ord. No. 181,412, Eff. 1/2/11.)



 



   A.   Purpose.  This section sets forth procedures, guidelines, and
standards for establishment of the "CPIO" Community Plan Implementation
Overlay Districts within any zone in the City.  The purpose of the CPIO
District is to provide for supplemental development regulations tailored to
each Community Plan area to:



 



   1.   Ensure that development enhances the unique architectural,
environmental, and cultural qualities of each Community Plan area, integrates
improvements and enhancements to the public right-of-way, and maintains
compatible land uses, scale, intensity, and density;



 



   2.   Create an approval process to enable infill development that
will positively impact communities.



 



   B.   Relationship to Other Zoning Regulations.  Where the
provisions of a CPIO District conflict with those of a Specific Plan or
Historic Preservation Overlay Zone (HPOZ), then the provisions of the
Specific Plan or HPOZ shall prevail.  Regulations contained in the CPIO
District dealing with uses, height, floor area ratio, and/or signage shall be
more restrictive than applicable regulations in the underlying zone(s) and
other supplemental use districts.  If the provisions of the CPIO conflict
with any other City-wide regulations in the Los Angeles Municipal Code or
supplemental use districts other than a Specific Plan or HPOZ, then the
requirements of the CPIO District shall prevail.



 



   C.   Establishment of the District.



 



   1.   Initiation.  The initiation of the establishment of a CPIO
District or a change in boundaries of a district shall follow the procedures
set forth in Section 12.32 of this Code.  In addition, each CPIO District
shall have a minimum of one mapped CPIO District Subarea, as defined in
Subsection D. of this section, to enable the initiation and activation of a
CPIO District for an entire Community Plan Area.



 



   2.   Zoning Classification.  At the time of establishment, the City
Council may, pursuant to Section 12.32 of this Code, adopt an ordinance to
amend Section 12.04 of this Code to establish a zoning classification to
indicate the Community Plan Area in which the CPIO is located and the
corresponding Subarea as defined in Subsection E. of this section.



 



   3.   Boundaries.  A CPIO District shall share the boundaries of a
Community Plan and contain at least one Subarea.  Precise boundaries of the
Subarea are required at the time of application for or initiation of an
individual District.



 



   4.   Amendments to a CPIO.  The procedures for amending a CPIO
District or its Subareas, or adopting additional Subareas within an
established CPIO District, are set forth in Subsections A., C., and E. of
Section 12.32.



 



   5.   Findings.  In adopting a CPIO District, the City Council shall
find that the supplemental development regulations of the CPIO District are
consistent with, and necessary to implement, the programs, policies, or urban
design guidelines of the Community Plan for that area.



 



   D.   Definitions.



 



   Community Plan Implementation Overlay (CPIO) Subarea.  A further
defined area within the CPIO District in which Community Plan programs and/or
policies are implemented through supplemental development regulations. 
Subareas may be contiguous or non-contiguous parcels characterized by common
Community Plan goals, themes and policies and grouped by a common boundary.



 



   E.   Content of a CPIO District.  Each CPIO District shall contain
the following:



 



   1.   Subarea Boundaries.  A map showing all sites within the
District's Subarea(s).



 



   2.   Project.  A definition of the term "Project", which shall set
forth the type of developments or uses subject to the supplemental
development regulations and/or processes.  The District may define the term
"Project" differently for each Subarea.



 



   3.   Supplemental Development Regulations.  Supplemental
development regulations and definitions that may apply to any zone and/or
public right-of-way within a CPIO District's Subarea(s).



 



   F.   Issuance of Permits.  For all Projects within a CPIO Subarea,
the Department of Building and Safety shall not issue a grading, building or
change of use permit unless an Administrative Clearance, CPIO Adjustment, or
CPIO Exception has been obtained pursuant to the applicable procedures in
Subsection G.



 



   G.   Review Procedures for Projects within a CPIO District.  For
all Projects within a CPIO District's Subarea(s), an applicant shall follow
the applicable procedures set forth below:



 



   1.   Application.  All Projects proposed within a CPIO District
shall be submitted with an application for a CPIO approval to be filed with
the Department of City Planning on a form provided by the Department, and
include all information required by the instructions on the application and
the guidelines adopted by the Director of Planning.  Prior to deeming the
application complete, the Director shall determine and, if necessary, advise
the applicant of the processes to be followed, materials to be submitted, and
fees to be paid.  The granting of a CPIO approval shall not imply, or be
deemed to constitute, compliance with any other applicable provisions of this
Code.



 



   2.   Administrative Clearance - Authority of the Director.  An
applicant for a Project that complies with the provisions of an adopted CPIO
District shall submit plans to the Director for an Administrative Clearance
pursuant to Section 12.32 S.4.  Projects which do not comply with the
applicable CPIO District regulations may request relief through the
procedures set forth in Subsections 3. and 4. of this section.



 



   3.   Community Plan Implementation Overlay Adjustment - Director
Authority with Appeals to the Area Planning Commission.  The Director or the
Director's designee shall have initial decision-making authority to grant a
CPIO Adjustment with an appeal to the Area Planning Commission in accordance
with the procedures set forth in Section 11.5.7 C.4. - 6. of this Code.



 



   (a)   Limitations.  Unless otherwise limited by a CPIO District or
CPIO District Subarea, a CPIO Adjustment shall be limited to deviations of up
to 20 percent from the quantitative supplemental development regulations or
minor adjustments from the qualitative supplemental development regulations
in an adopted CPIO Subarea.



 



   Each adopted CPIO ordinance shall indicate those development
regulations which are not eligible for an adjustment through this Section. 
If an application requests more than one CPIO Adjustment, the Director may
advise the applicant, prior to the application being deemed complete, that
the request be filed and processed as a CPIO exception, pursuant to
Subsection 4. of this section.  To the extent that a CPIO contains sign
regulations, signs shall not qualify for relief through a CPIO Adjustment. 
All other Projects seeking relief from any development regulation which
contains prohibition language, or development regulations otherwise
designated in the CPIO as not eligible for adjustments, shall be processed
through the CPIO Exception procedures listed under Subsection 4. of this
section.



 



   (b)   Findings.  The Director's determination shall include written
findings in support of the determination.  In order to approve a proposed
project pursuant to this subsection, the Director must find that:



 



   (i)   There are special circumstances applicable to the project or
project site which make the strict application of the CPIO regulation(s)
impractical;



 



   (ii)   The project, as approved, is consistent with the purpose and
intent of the CPIO and substantially complies with the applicable CPIO
regulations;



 



   (iii)   In granting the adjustment, the Director has considered and
found no detrimental effects of the adjustment on surrounding properties or
public rights-of-way;



 



   (iv)   The project incorporates mitigation measures, monitoring of
measures when necessary, or alternatives identified in the environmental
review which would mitigate the negative environmental effects of the
project, to the extent physically feasible; and



 



   (v)   The project is compatible with the neighborhood character of
the CPIO District Subarea.



 



   4.   Exceptions from a "CPIO" - Area Planning Commission Authority
with Appeals to the City Council.



 



   (a)   Area Planning Commission Authority.  The Area Planning
Commission shall have initial decision-making authority for granting
exceptions from CPIO regulations with an appeal to the City Council in
accordance with the procedures set forth in Subdivisions 3. - 8. of
Subsection F. of Section 11.5.7 of this Code.



 



   In granting an exception from CPIO regulations, the Area Planning
Commission shall impose conditions to remedy any resulting disparity of
privilege, to protect the public health, safety, welfare, and to assure
compliance with the objectives of the General Plan and the purpose and intent
of the CPIO District.  An exception from a CPIO regulation shall not be used
to grant a special privilege, nor to grant relief from self-imposed hardships.



 



   (b)   Findings.  The Area Planning Commission may permit an
exception from a CPIO regulation not involving signage if it makes all the
following findings:



 



   (i)   The strict application of the CPIO regulations to the subject
property would result in practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships
inconsistent with the general purpose and intent of the CPIO District and its
regulations;



 



   (ii)   There are exceptional circumstances or conditions applicable
to the subject property involved or to the intended use or development of the
subject property that do not apply generally to other properties in the CPIO
District and/or Subarea;



 



   (iii)   An exception from the CPIO regulation is necessary for the
preservation and enjoyment of a substantial property right or use generally
possessed by other property within the CPIO District and/or Subarea in the
same zone and vicinity but which, because of special circumstances and
practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships, is denied to the property in
question;



 



   (iv)   The granting of an exception will not be detrimental to the
public welfare or injurious to the property or improvements adjacent to or in
the vicinity of the subject property; and



 



   (v)   The granting of an exception will be consistent with the
principles, intent and goals of the CPIO District and/or Subarea and any
applicable element of the General Plan.



 



   The Area Planning Commission may permit an exception from a CPIO
regulation concerning signage if it makes all the following findings:



 



   (i)   Strict compliance would result in practical difficulty or
unnecessary hardship inconsistent with the purposes of the zoning
restrictions due to unique existing physical circumstances on the subject
property;



 



   (ii)   An exception from the CPIO regulation is necessary for the
preservation and enjoyment of a substantial property right or use generally
possessed by other property within the CPIO District and/or Subarea in the
same zone and vicinity but which, because of special circumstances and
practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships, is denied to the property in
question;



 



   (iii)   The exception would not constitute a special grant of
privilege.



 



 



SEC. 13.15.  "MPR" MODIFIED PARKING REQUIREMENT DISTRICT.



   (Title Amended by Ord. No. 184,246, Eff. 6/4/16.)



 



   A.   Establishment of Districts.  The procedures to establish a
Modified Parking Requirement (MPR) District shall be as set forth in Section
12.32 S. of this Code.  With the exception of the Adaptive Reuse Incentives
Areas Specific Plan and the South Central Alcohol Sales Specific Plan, no MPR
District shall be established in an area governed by a specific plan
established before or after the effective date of this ordinance.  Each
ordinance creating an MPR District shall establish one or more of the
strategies listed in Subsection D. for the District area.



 



   B.   Size and Boundaries.  An MPR District shall encompass a
minimum of two entire block faces (as defined in Section 13.09 B.3. of this
Code) or a minimum of five acres in area.  The boundaries of the MPR
District shall be set by ordinance.



 



   C.   Findings.  In making the report required by Section 12.32 C.2.
of this Code, the City Planning Commission shall also report to the Council
on whether the District, and the strategies included in the District, are
appropriate considering such factors as local transit service and dependency,
automobile usage, traffic, available parking, and the goals, policies, and
objectives set forth in the applicable community plan.



 



   D.   Modified Parking Requirement (MPR) District Strategies.  Any
ordinance creating an MPR District shall adopt one or more of the seven
strategies listed in this subsection for the MPR District area.



 



   1.   Change of Use Parking Standards.  The required number of
parking spaces for any permitted use in the District shall be the same as the
number of spaces that exist on the lot on the date the ordinance creating the
District becomes effective.



 



   2.   Off-site Parking.  The  parking spaces required by Section
12.21 A.4. of this Code shall be provided either on the same lot as the use
for which they are intended to serve or 1,500 feet therefrom.  If parking
spaces are provided off-site, they must be guaranteed through a recorded
covenant agreement that reserves the spaces exclusively for the use in
question.  Distance is to be measured along any street, alley, public walk,
or private easement that allows public pedestrian travel from the parking
area to the use it is to serve.



 



   3.   Parking Reduction Approval.  A Zoning Administrator may
approve reduced parking requirements for individual projects pursuant to
Section 12.24 X.30. of this Code.



 



   4.   Decreased Parking Requirements.  An MPR District may establish
parking requirements that are less restrictive than those set forth in
Section 12.21 A.4. of this Code.  The ordinance creating the District shall
identify each use that is granted modified parking requirements, along with
each use's new parking requirement.  Otherwise, the number of required
parking spaces shall be governed by Section 12.21 A.4.  Before adopting any
ordinance creating an MPR District that includes Decreased Parking
Requirements, the City Council must find that:



 



   a.   The parking reduction, taking into account impacts such as
parking overflow and increased traffic congestion and potential benefits such
as enhanced mobility and neighborhood vitality, will not adversely affect the
surrounding neighborhood; and



 



   b.   There exists a combination of parking management programs,
transportation alternatives, or other infrastructure improvements, and
commercial building access programs that negate the need for increased
parking requirements; and



 



   c.   Flexible transportation approaches and parking management
programs are more consistent with the area's air quality goals, community
character and general plan than an increased number of required parking
spaces.



 



   5.   Increased Parking Requirements.  An MPR District may establish
parking requirements that are more restrictive than those required in
Paragraph 12.21 A.4. of this Code.  The ordinance creating the District
shall identify each use that is assigned increased parking requirements,
along with each use's new parking requirement.  Otherwise, the number of
required spaces shall be governed by Section 12.21 A.4.  Before adopting any
ordinance creating an MPR District that includes Increased Parking
Requirements, the City Council must find that:



 



   a.   There is a lack of transit service in the area; or



 



   b.   There is a high potential for spillover parking impacts on
adjacent residential areas; or



 



   c.   There is a low probability that parking management programs,
transportation demand management programs, or public parking facilities will
be available or effective in the area.



 



   6.   Commercial Parking Credits.  An MPR District may authorize
parking requirements to be satisfied through the creation of a parking credit
program.  The number of available parking credits shall be established by a
survey that identifies the number of underutilized public parking spaces
available within the District at various times of the day.  The ordinance
creating the District shall list the number of credits available in the area,
and the number of credits required to support a specific use for various
times of the day.



 



   7.   Maximum Parking Requirements.  An MPR District may establish
maximum parking requirements.  The ordinance creating the District shall set
forth each use for which maximum parking requirements apply, as well as the
specific parking limits for that use.  Otherwise, the parking requirements
set forth in Section 12.21 A.4. shall apply.



 



   E.   Applicability of Modified Parking Strategies to Residential
Uses.  This Section shall apply to lots where the zoning regulations permit
multi-residential uses as follows:



 



   1.   An MPR District shall not authorize any of the strategies
listed above, except for the strategies described in subsections D.5. and
D.6., for any lot that contained a residential use subject to the Rent
Stabilization Ordinance, or that contained any Restricted Affordable units,
as defined in Section 12.22 A.25.(b) of the Code, within the five years
preceding the adoption of the MPR District.  Required parking on such
properties, however, may be reduced pursuant to Section 12.22 A.25. of the
Code, or pursuant to any other applicable affordable housing incentive
program.



 



   2.   Minimum parking requirements for multi-residential uses in an
MPR district shall be less restrictive for projects that qualify for a
density bonus under Section 12.22 A.25. of the Code.



 



 



SEC. 13.16.  "HS" HILLSIDE STANDARDS OVERLAY DISTRICT.



   (Added by Ord. No. 181,624, Eff. 5/9/11.)



 



   A.   Purpose.  This Section sets forth procedures and guidelines
for the establishment of "HS" Hillside Standards Overlay Districts in
single-family residential neighborhoods in designated Hillside Areas, as
defined in Section 12.03 of this Chapter, throughout the City.  The purpose
of the "HS" Hillside Standards Overlay District is to permit Residential
Floor Area, height, and Grading limits in the R1, RS, RE, and RA zones to be
higher or lower than normally permitted by this Code in areas where the
proposed overlay will further enhance the existing scale of homes and/or help
to preserve the existing character of the neighborhood as effectively as the
limitations or requirements otherwise established in this Code; and where
these changes will be consistent with the policies and objectives set forth
in the applicable Community Plan.



 



   B.   Establishment of the District.  The procedures set forth in
Section 12.32 S. of this Code shall be followed, however, each "HS" Hillside
Standards Overlay District shall include only properties in the RA, RE, RS,
or R1 zones.  The overlay shall not generally be less than 100 acres in
area; however, the 100 acres do not need to be within one contiguous boundary
as long as no one subarea is less than 25 acres in area, and the entire 100
acres is located within an overall area of 200 contiguous acres.  The
precise boundary of a district may be adjusted for urban features such as
topography, freeways or Streets/Highways.  Boundaries shall be along Street
Frontages and shall not split parcels.  An "HS" Hillside Standards Overlay
District may encompass an area, which is designated, in whole or in part, as
a Historic Preservation Overlay Zone and/or Specific Plan.  The "HS"
Hillside Standards Overlay District shall include contiguous parcels, which
may only be separated by public Streets, ways or alleys or other physical
features, or as set forth in the rules approved by the Director of
Planning.  Precise boundaries are required at the time of application for,
or initiation of, an individual overlay.



 



   C.   Development Regulations.  The Department of Building and
Safety shall not issue a Building permit for a residential Structure within
an "HS" Hillside Standards Overlay District unless the residential Structure
conforms to the regulations set forth in a specific "HS" Hillside Standards
Overlay District.  The development regulations for each "HS" Hillside
Standards Overlay District shall be limited to changes in the numerical
values of the Residential Floor Area, height, and Grading limits in the R1,
RS, RE, and RA zones stated in this Chapter (Subdivision 10. of Subsection C.
of Section 12.21 - Paragraphs (a) Residential Floor Area, (d) Height Limits,
and (f) Grading) and shall not result in a substantial deviation in approach,
method of calculation, or measurement from the corresponding language already
in place in this Chapter 1.  The development regulations shall be determined
at the time the overlay is established.  The development regulations shall
serve to enhance the existing or envisioned character of the overlay.



 



 



SEC. 13.17.  "RIO" RIVER IMPROVEMENT OVERLAY DISTRICT.



   (Added by Ord. No. 183,145, Eff. 8/20/14.)



 



   A.   Purpose.  This section sets forth procedures and standards for
the establishment of River Improvement Overlay (RIO) districts within river
or tributary (river) adjacent areas throughout the City.  The purpose of a
RIO district is to:



 



   1.   Support the goals of the Los Angeles River Revitalization
Master Plan;



 



   2.   Contribute to the environmental and ecological health of the
City's watersheds;



 



   3.   Establish a positive interface between river adjacent property
and river parks and/or greenways;



 



   4.   Promote pedestrian, bicycle and other multi-modal connection
between the river and its surrounding neighborhoods;



 



   5.   Provide native habitat and support local species;



 



   6.   Provide an aesthetically pleasing environment for pedestrians
and bicyclists accessing the river area;



 



   7.   Provide safe, convenient access to and circulation along the
river;



 



   8.   Promote the river identity of river adjacent communities; and



 



   9.   Support the Low Impact Development Ordinance, the City's
Irrigation Guidelines, and the Standard Urban Stormwater Maintenance Program.



 



   B.   Establishment of Districts.  The City Council may establish
new districts, or change boundaries of districts, by following the procedures
set forth in Section 12.32 S. of this Code.  Precise boundaries are required
at the time of application to expand or create a RIO district.  The RIO
District shall include all public and private land uses within its boundaries.



 



   C.   Definitions.  For the purposes of this section, the following
words and phrases are defined as follows:



 



   Adjacent.  Properties whose property lines abut a river or a river
frontage road.



 



   Inner Core.  Projects located adjacent to the river.



 



   Los Angeles County's River Master Plan's Landscaping Guidelines and
Plant Palettes.  A plant palette comprised primarily of native plants
suitable for a riparian habitat.  The Guidelines can be found at:
http://ladpw.org/wmd/watershed/LA/LARPlanting guidelineswebversion.pdf



 



   Native Plant.  A native plant is one that occurs naturally in a given
geographic area.  These can be trees, flowers, grasses or any other plants
included in the California Native Plant Library at:
http://www.theodorepayne.org/mediawiki/index.php?title+Main_Page



 



   Outer Core.  Projects not located adjacent to the river.



 



   Project.  The erection, construction, addition to, or exterior
structural alteration of any building or structure located within a River
Improvement District.  A Project does not include construction work that
consists solely of (1) interior remodeling, interior rehabilitation work or
repair work; or (2) alterations of, including structural repairs, or
additions to, any existing building in which the aggregate value of the work,
in any one 24-month period, is less than 50 percent of the building's
replacement cost before the alterations or additions as determined by the
Department of Building and Safety (DBS).  Construction costs are based on a
valuation table available on the DBS website.  The table lists the cost of
construction per square foot.



 



   Public Right-of-Way (ROW).  A parcel of land over which the public can
legally traverse.  Usually a street, road, sidewalk or footpath.



 



   River.  A general term for a body of flowing water.  A river may be
classified in relation to time as follows:  perennial (flows continuously)
or intermittent (flows seasonally).



 



   River Design Guidelines.  The design guidelines used in RIO districts,
which may be modified for use in particular districts.



 



   River Frontage Road.  A roadway that runs roughly parallel to, and
directly adjacent to, the river corridor as defined in each RIO ordinance.



 



   Riverfront Door.  An exterior door of a Project that faces and is
directly accessible from the adjacent river corridor or river frontage road.



 



   WatershedWise Plants.  Plants included in the WatershedWise Plant List
published by the Council for Watershed Health and available at:
http://www.watershedhealth.org



 



   D.   Application.  Each individual RIO district shall incorporate
all of the regulations contained in Subsection F., below.  Notwithstanding
the foregoing, an individual RIO district ordinance may include development
standards tailored to that district, in which case those specially tailored
development standards shall supersede any inconsistent provisions of the
regulations contained in Subsection F., below.  An individual RIO district
ordinance shall apply to a particular geographical area.  The regulations
contained in this section are in addition to the use and area regulations
applicable to the underlying zone.  If the provisions of this section
conflict with any other city-wide regulations, then the most restrictive
requirements shall prevail.



 



   E.   Issuance of Building Permits.  The Department of Building and
Safety shall not issue a building permit for a Project within either the
Inner or Outer Core area of a RIO district, unless a RIO approval, RIO
Adjustment or RIO Exception, whichever is applicable, has been obtained
pursuant to the applicable procedures in Subsection H., below.



 



   F.   Development Regulations.  A Project shall conform to all of
the following development regulations, except as modified by an individual
RIO district.



 



   1.   Landscaping shall conform to the following regulations: 75
percent of any Project's newly landscaped area shall be planted with any
combination of the following: native trees, plants and shrubs, or species
defined as WatershedWise, or species listed in the Los Angeles County River
Master Plan Landscaping Guidelines and Plant Palettes.  This requirement is
for new landscaping only and does not apply to existing landscaping.



 



   2.   Screening/Fencing.



 



   (a)   Loading areas and off-street parking facilities of three
spaces or more, either on a surface lot or in a structure, shall be screened
from the abutting public right-of-way and the River.  However, such
screening shall not obstruct the view of a driver entering or leaving the
loading area or parking facility, or the view from the street of entrances
and exits to a loading area or parking facility, and shall consist of one or
a combination of the following:



 



   (i)   A strip at least 5 feet in width of densely planted shrubs or
trees which are at least 2 feet high at the time of planting and are of a
type that may be expected to form, within three years after time of planting,
a continuous, unbroken, year round visual screen; or



 



   (ii)   A wall, barrier or fence of uniform appearance. Such wall,
barrier or fence may be opaque or perforated, provided that not more than 50
percent of the face is open.  The wall, barrier or fence shall, when located
in either the rear or side yards, be at least 4 feet and not more than 6 feet
in height.



 



   (b)   Electrical transformers, mechanical equipment, water meters
and other equipment shall be screened from public view.  The screening may
be opaque or perforated, provided that not more than 50 percent of the face
is open.  The screen shall be at least 6 inches taller than the equipment
and not more than 2 feet taller than the equipment.



 



   (c)   Exterior trash enclosures shall:



 



   (i)   be designed to complement the primary building with a wall
height that exceeds the disposal unit it is designed to contain by at least
18 inches;



 



   (ii)   have a solid roof to deter birds and block views from
adjacent properties;



 



   (iii)   have solid metal doors that accommodate a lock and remain
closed when not in use; and



 



   (iv)   not be constructed of chain link or wood.



 



   (d)   With the exception of single-family homes, all projects facing
a street that crosses the river or terminates at the river or a river
frontage road shall have all fences within the front or side yards visible
from said street consistent with the fence designs identified in the Los
Angeles County River Master Plan Landscape Guidelines.



 



   3.   Exterior Site Lighting.



 



   (a)   All site and building mounted lighting shall be designed such
that it produces a maximum initial luminance value no greater than 0.20
horizontal and vertical foot candles at the site boundary, and no greater
than 0.01 horizontal foot candles 15 feet beyond the site.  No more than 5.0
percent of the total initial designed lumens shall be emitted at an angle of
90 degrees or higher from nadir (straight down).



 



   (b)   All low pressure sodium, high pressure sodium, metal halide,
fluorescent, quartz, incandescent greater than 60 watts, mercury vapor, and
halogen fixtures shall be fully shielded in such a manner as to not exceed
the limitations in Subdivision 3(a), above.



 



   4.   Projects located partially or wholly within the Inner Core
shall also conform to the following regulations:



 



   (a)   Landscape Buffer.  All Projects shall provide a 10-foot
landscape buffer as measured from the Project's property line adjacent to the
river except where a roadway is located within that 10 feet.  New building
structures or parking shall not be permitted within the 10-foot landscape
buffer.



 



   (b)   Fence.  All fences located within 10 feet of the river
corridor or a river frontage road street or any adjacent street shall be
consistent with the fence designs identified in the Los Angeles County River
Master Plan Landscape Guidelines.  With the exception of single-family
homes, all Projects shall be required to maintain a visual connection between
the river corridor and/or frontage road and the abutting property.



 



   (c)   Fence Height.  All fences located less than 10 feet from the
river shall be no higher than 6 feet in height.  All fences located at the
10 foot landscape buffer setback line shall not exceed 10 feet in height.  A
fence located within a landscape buffer that is also a project's front yard
shall be limited in height to 3 feet 6 inches.



 



   (d)   Gates.  All gates or fences located within 10 feet of the
river or a river frontage road shall be consistent with the gate designs
identified in the Los Angeles County River Master Plan Landscape
Guidelines.  The gate height shall be consistent with the adjacent fence
height and the gate shall be designed so as not to encroach into either the
river, street or public right-of-way when opened.



 



   (e)   Noise.  All projects subject to a conditional use permit for
the sale or dispensing of alcoholic beverages, including beer and wine, shall
incorporate noise-attenuating features (physical as well as operational)
designed by a licensed acoustical sound engineer to assure that operational
sounds shall not exceed 5 decibels above the existing measured or presumed
ambient levels of the property line(s) of properties on the opposite bank.



 



   (f)   River Access.



 



   (i)   With the exception of single-family homes, all river adjacent
projects that partially or wholly abut the river shall have Americans with
Disabilities Act compliant access gates from their property to the river. 
The gates shall also be accessible for bicycle entry.  Access may be
controlled and limited to residents, employees and/or visitors of the project.



 



   (ii)   All single-family home projects that partially or wholly abut
the river shall have access gates from their property to the river.  Access
may be controlled and limited, as desired by the owner.



 



   (g)   Riverfront Door.  All projects located either adjacent to the
river corridor or frontage road shall include a riverfront door visible to,
and accessible from, the river corridor or frontage road.



 



   EXCEPTION:  In a landscaped area, horticulture such as herbs, fruit or
vegetables can be used to replace up to 100 percent of the plantings that
satisfy the, WatershedWise, Native or Los Angeles County River Master Plan
Landscape Guidelines planting requirements.



 



   G.   Administrative Review Procedures for any Project within a RIO
District.  A Project within a RIO District shall require RIO approval
obtained through a ministerial administrative review, as set forth below:



 



   1.   Application.  An application for a RIO approval must be filed
for a Project proposed within a RIO District.  The application shall be
filed with the Department of City Planning on a form provided by the
Department and include all information required by the instructions on the
application, including project plans.



 



   Prior to deeming the application complete, the Director shall determine
and, if necessary, advise the applicant of the following: (a) processes to be
followed (i.e., administrative clearance, adjustment or exception); (b)
materials to be submitted; and (c) fees to be paid.  The granting of a RIO
approval shall not imply, or be deemed to constitute, compliance with any
other applicable provisions of this Code.



 



   2.   Administrative Clearance – Authority of the Director.  A RIO
approval shall be processed as an Administrative Clearance pursuant to
Section 12.32 S.4. of this Code.  Projects which do not comply with the
applicable RIO District regulations may request relief through the procedures
set forth in Subdivisions 3. and 4. of Subsection G. of this Section 13.17.



 



   3.   Adjustments – Director Authority with Appeals to the Area
Planning Commission.  The Director or the Director's designee shall have
initial decision-making authority to grant a RIO Adjustment with an appeal to
the Area Planning Commission in accordance with the procedures set forth in
Section 11.5.7 C.4. - 6. of this Code.



 



   (a)   Limitations.  Unless further limited by a RIO District, a RIO
Adjustment shall be limited to deviations of up to 20 percent from the
quantitative supplemental development regulations or minor adjustments from
the qualitative supplemental development regulations in an adopted RIO
Subarea.



 



   Each adopted RIO ordinance shall indicate those development regulations
which are not eligible for an adjustment through this section.  If an
application requests more than two RIO Adjustments, the request will be filed
and processed as a RIO exception pursuant to Subsection 4. of this section. 
To the extent that a RIO contains sign regulations, signs shall not qualify
for relief through a RIO Adjustment.  All other Projects seeking relief from
any development regulation which contains prohibition language, or
development regulations otherwise designated in the RIO as not eligible for
adjustments, shall be processed through the RIO Exception procedures listed
under Subsection 4. of this section.



 



   (b)   Findings.  The Director may grant an adjustment upon making
all of the following findings:



 



   (i)   There are special circumstances applicable to the project or
project site which make the strict application of the RIO regulation(s)
impractical;



 



   (ii)   The project, as approved, is consistent with the purpose and
intent of the RIO and substantially complies with the applicable RIO
regulations;



 



   (iii)   In granting the adjustment, the Director has considered and
found no detrimental effects of the adjustment on surrounding properties or
public right-of-way; and



 



   (iv)   The project incorporates mitigation measures, monitoring of
measures when necessary, or alternatives identified in the environmental
review which would mitigate the negative environmental effects of the
project, to the extent physically feasible.



 



   4.   Exceptions – Area Planning Commission Authority with Appeals
to the City Council.



 



   (a)   Area Planning Commission Authority.  The Area Planning
Commission shall have initial decision-making authority for granting
exceptions from RIO regulations with an appeal to the City Council in
accordance with the procedures set forth in Subdivisions 3. through 8. of
Subsection F. of Section 11.5.7 of this Code.



 



   In granting an exception from RIO regulations, the Area Planning
Commission shall impose conditions to protect the public health, safety and
welfare, and to assure compliance with the objectives of the General Plan and
the purpose and intent of the RIO District.  An exception from a RIO
regulation shall not be used to grant a special privilege, nor to grant
relief from self-imposed hardships.



 



   (b)   Findings for a Project not Involving Signage.  The Area
Planning Commission may permit an exception from a RIO regulation not
involving signage if it makes all the following findings:



 



   (i)   The strict application of the RIO regulations to the subject
property would result in practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships
inconsistent with the general purpose and intent of the RIO District and its
regulations;



 



   (ii)   There are exceptional circumstances or conditions applicable
to the subject property involved or to the intended use or development of the
subject property that do not apply generally to other properties in the RIO
District;



 



   (iii)   An exception from the RIO regulation is necessary for the
preservation and enjoyment of a substantial property right or use generally
possessed by other property within the RIO District within the same zone and
vicinity, but which, because of special circumstances and practical
difficulties or unnecessary hardships, is denied to the property in question;



 



   (iv)   The granting of an exception will not be detrimental to the
public welfare or injurious to the property or improvements adjacent to, or
in the vicinity of, the subject property; and



 



   (v)   The granting of an exception will be consistent with the
principles, intent and goals of the RIO District and any applicable element
of the General Plan.



 



   H.   River Design Guidelines.  The Director of Planning shall
prepare River Design Guidelines applicable to all RIO districts.  The
initial adoption and any subsequent amendment to these guidelines shall be
made pursuant to the following procedures:



 



   1.   Initiation.  The initial adoption or amendment of the
guidelines may be initiated by the Director of Planning, the City Planning
Commission or City Council.



 



   2.   Preparation and Content.  Upon initiation, the Director shall
prepare, or cause to be prepared, proposed guidelines based on the design
policies contained in the Los Angeles River Revitalization Master Plan.



 



   The guidelines are in addition to the regulations set forth in the
planning and zoning provisions of Los Angeles Municipal Code Chapter 1, as
amended, and any other relevant ordinances, and do not convey any rights not
otherwise granted under the provisions and procedures contained in that
chapter and other relevant ordinances, except as specifically provided herein.



 



   Furthermore, nothing in the guidelines shall interfere with any
previously granted entitlements, nor shall they restrict any right authorized
in the underlying zone or height district.



 



   3.   Commission Hearing and Notice.  The proposed or amended
guidelines shall be set for a public hearing before the City Planning
Commission.  Notice of the hearing shall be given as provided in Section
12.24 D.2. of this Code.



 



   4.   Decision by City Planning Commission.  The City Planning
Commission shall, by resolution, approve, modify or disapprove the proposed
guidelines.  If the City Planning Commission fails to act within 75 days
from the receipt of the report and recommendations of the Planning
Department, the proposed guidelines shall automatically be submitted to the
City Council for action.  In approving the guidelines, the City Planning
Commission or Council shall make a finding that they are consistent with the
policies of the Los Angeles River Revitalization Master Plan and the purposes
of this Section 13.17.



 



 



SEC. 13.18.  "CUGU" CLEAN UP GREEN UP DISTRICT.



   (Added by Ord. No. 184,246, Eff. 6/4/16.)



 



   A.   Purpose.  This section sets forth procedures and standards for
the establishment of the CUGU District.  The purpose of the CUGU District is
to reduce cumulative health impacts resulting from land uses including, but
not limited to, concentrated industrial land use, on-road vehicle travel, and
heavily freight-dominated transportation corridors, which are incompatible
with the sensitive uses to which they are in close proximity, such as homes,
schools and other sensitive uses.



 



   B.   Relationship to other Zoning Regulations.  Wherever the
provisions of the CUGU District conflict with any provisions of other
Supplemental Use Districts, the underlying zone, or any other regulation, the
more restrictive provision shall prevail.



 



   C.   District Identification.  The provisions of this ordinance
shall apply to all properties identified on the zoning map with a “CUGU”
suffix on the zone classification.  The CUGU District shall include all
public and private land uses.



 



   D.   Definitions.  For the purposes of this section, the following
words and phrases are defined as follows:



 



   1.   Adjacent Property.  A property next to, across the street or
alley from, or having a common corner with the subject property.



 



   2.   Abutting Property.  A property sharing a parcel or lot line.



 



   3.    Freeway.  A divided arterial highway with full control of
access and with grade separation at intersections.



 



   4.   Fugitive Emissions.  Emissions not caught by a mechanically
ventilated system or other capture system, which are often due to equipment
leaks, evaporative processes and/or windblown disturbances.



 



   5.   Hedge.  A row of bushes or small trees planted close together
to form a fence or boundary; hedgerow.



 



   6.   Landscape Practitioner.  Any person licensed by the State of
California to design, install or maintain landscape or irrigation systems; or
any person specifically exempted by the State from the licensing requirements
in the field of landscape or land management; or any homeowner who designs,
installs or maintains landscaping or irrigation systems on his or her own
property.



 



   7.   Publicly Habitable Spaces.  Any use containing one or more
dwelling unit or guest room, as well as a school, park, recreation center,
day care center, hospital, medical building and nursing home.



 



   E.   Qualifying Criteria.  A project that satisfies at least one
criterion under the “Project Type” list in Subdivision 1. below, and at
least one criterion under the “Project Context” list in Subdivision 2.
below shall comply with the provisions of this section.



 



   1.   Project Type.



 



   (a)   NEW.  The construction of a new stand-alone building.



 



   (b)   MAJOR IMPROVEMENT.  The alteration of any building(s) or
structure(s) on a project site which does not expand the building(s) or
structure(s), and for which the aggregate value of the alterations within any
24-month period exceeds 50 percent of the replacement cost of the building(s)
and structure(s) on the project site, as determined by the Department of
Building and Safety.  Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 12.23, the
existence of a Major Improvement on a project site shall require the entire
project site to be upgraded in accordance with all applicable provisions of
Section 13.18 of this Code.



 



   (c)   ADDITION.  The expansion of any existing building(s) or
structure(s), with or without other alterations to the building(s) or
structure(s), on a project site in which the total aggregate value of work in
any 24-month period exceeds 50 percent of the replacement cost of all
buildings and structures on the entire project site, as determined by the
Department of Building and Safety.  Notwithstanding the provisions of
Section 12.23, an addition shall be upgraded in accordance with all
applicable provisions of Section 13.18 of this Code.



 



   (d)   CHANGE OF USE.  The expansion of or change to a use on the
Subject Use list.



 



   2.   Project Context.



 



   (a)   Project is a municipal project located within 1,000 feet of a
Freeway or State Route specified in LAMC Section 13.18 F.4.



 



   (b)   Project is a Publically Habitable Space adjacent to a Subject
Use.



 



   (c)   Primary use of site is a Subject Use adjacent to a Publicly
Habitable Space.



 



   (d)   Primary use of site is a Subject Use, as listed below:



 




Subject Use List




 



AUTOMOTIVE USES



Automobile Dismantling Yard



Automobile Impound Yard



Automobile Parts



Automobile Parts, repairing or rebuilding for wholesale



Automobile Rebuilding or Reconditioning, wholesale



Automobile Rental



Automobile Sales, used



Automobile Storage Area



Automobile Storage Garage



Automobile Window Tinting



Automobile Wrecking



Automotive Assembly, wholesale



Automotive Exhaust Test Station



Automotive Fueling and Service Station and Fuel Store



Automotive Refueling Station



Automotive Glass Shop



Automotive Painting



Automotive Painting, wholesale



Automotive Repair



Automotive Sound Shop



Automotive Undercoat Spraying, wholesale



Automotive Upholstering



Automotive Upholstering, wholesale



Automotive Uses, other



Body and Fender Repairing, automotive



Body and Fender Repairing, automotive, wholesale



Bus Storage or Operating Yard



Car Wash



Commercial Vehicle Rental and Storage



Engine Testing



Gasoline Station



House Mover or Wrecker



Household Moving Rental Trucks and Trailers, rental, storage, or storage for
rental purposes



Household Moving Truck Repair and Storage



Motor Coach Repairing or Overhauling



Motorcycle or Motor Scooter Repair



Motorcycle or Motor Scooter Repair, wholesale



Motorcycle or Motor Scooter Sales, new



Motorcycle or Motor Scooter Sales, used



Motorcycle Storage Garage



Moving Van Storage or Operating Yard



Recreational Vehicle Sales, new



Recreational Vehicle Sales, used



Recreational Vehicle Storage



Tank Truck Parking or Storage



Temporary Storage of Abandoned, Partially Dismantled, Obsolete, or Wrecked
Automobiles



Tire Retreading or Recapping



Tow Truck Dispatching



Tractor Rental Yard



Trailer (utility) Rental and Storage



Trailer Rental



Trailer Sales, new



Trailer Sales, used



Truck Rental



Truck Repairing or Overhauling



Truck Sales or Storage Yard



Trucking Yard or Terminal



U-Drive Business



 



FABRICS



Carpet and Rug Cleaning Plant



Cloth Shrinking, Sponging, or Waterproofing



Dry Cleaning Plant



Dry Cleaning Plant, wholesale



Dyeing Works Plant



Fabric Shrinking, Sponging, Waterproofing, or Dyeing



Flocking and Silk Screen Processing



Fur Cleaning



Garneting or Carding of Previously Produced Fibrous Materials



Knitting Mill



Laundry Plant



Laundry Plant, wholesale



Rug Cleaning Plant



Silk Screen Printing



 



FOOD & ANIMAL



Cannery (except fish products or sauerkraut)



Cannery, fish or sauerkraut



Composting Facility



Curing Facility



Dehydrating of Food



Feeding Pen, stock



Fish Canning, Cleaning, or Curing



Fish Distributing, wholesale or stock wagon operators



Fish Smoking



Flour Mill



Food Commissary



Food Dehydrating Plant



Frozen Food Locker Rental



Fruit Cannery



Fruit Preserving



Grain Drying or Fermenting



Grain Elevator



Hatchery, poultry or fish



Hides (raw) Curing, Tanning, or Storage



Hog Ranch, Feed, or Sales Yard



Honey Processing and Packing



Kennel



Livestock Exhibition, Sale, or Stable



Meat Cutting Plant



Menagerie



Nut Roasting, Frying, or Candy Coating



Olive Oil Extraction



Packing Plant, fruit or vegetable



Pet Animal Crematory



Potato Chip Factory



Poultry Killing



Poultry Slaughterhouse, wholesale



Produce Market, wholesale



Produce Yard or Terminal



Rabbit Killing



Rabbit Slaughterhouse, wholesale



Retinning and Reconditioning of Milk



Shrimp (frozen) Cleaning, Breading, Packaging, and Refreezing



Stockyard or Feeding Pen



Swine Ranch



Tanning, Curing, or Storing of Raw Hides or Skins



Vegetable Cannery



 



MANUFACTURING USES



Abrasives Manufacturing



Acetylene Gas Manufacturing or Storage



Acid Manufacturing



Adhesive Manufacturing, liquid



Advertising Structures Manufacturing



Agar-Agar Manufacturing



Alcohol Manufacturing



Ammonia Manufacturing



Ammunition Manufacturing



Anti-Knock Compound (for gasoline) Manufacturing



Asbestos Product Manufacturing



Asphalt Roofing Paper or Shingle Manufacturing



Automotive Body and Frame Manufacturing



Awning Manufacturing



Babbitt Metal Manufacturing



Barrel or Drum (steel) Manufacturing or Reclaiming



Bathing Cap Manufacturing



Bathtub Manufacturing



Battery Manufacturing



Billboard Manufacturing



Bleach Manufacturing



Bolt Manufacturing



Bone Products Manufacturing



Boneblack Manufacturing



Bottle Manufacturing



Box Spring Manufacturing



Brick Manufacturing



Briquette Manufacturing



Broom Manufacturing



Brush Manufacturing



Building Block Manufacturing



By-Product Products Manufacturing, from fish, meat, or animals



Can Manufacturing or Reconditioning



Canvas Manufacturing



Canvas Products Manufacturing,



Cap Manufacturing



Carbon Paper Manufacturing



Carpet and Rug Manufacturing



Cattle or Sheep Dip Manufacturing



CD, DVD, Video Tape, or Cassette Manufacturing



Cellophane Products Manufacturing



Cellulose Compound Manufacturing



Cellulose Nitrate Products Manufacturing



Cellulose Products Manufacturing



Cement Manufacturing



Cement Products Manufacturing



Cesspool Block Manufacturing



Chamois Skins Manufacturing



Charcoal Manufacturing



Chemical Manufacturing



Chewing Tobacco Manufacturing



Chlorine Gas Manufacturing



Cigar Manufacturing



Cigarette Manufacturing



Cloth Manufacturing



Cloth Products Manufacturing



Clothing Manufacturing



Coil Manufacturing, small



Coil Spring Manufacturing



Computer Manufacturing



Concrete Products Manufacturing



Condenser Manufacturing, small



Cork Manufacturing



Cork Products Manufacturing



Cosmetics Manufacturing



Creosote Manufacturing, Bulk Storage, or Treatment



Creosote Products Manufacturing



Crystal Holder Manufacturing



Dextrin Manufacturing



Disinfectant Manufacturing



Dog and Cat Food Manufacturing



Door Manufacturing



Dress Manufacturing



Drug Manufacturing



Dye Stuff Manufacturing



Electric Generator or Motor Manufacturing



Assembly and Manufacturing



Electric Parts



Electrical Equipment Manufacturing



Electrical Sign Manufacturing



Electronic Instruments and Devices Manufacturing



Electronic Products Assembly and Manufacturing



Emery Cloth Manufacturing



Excelsior Manufacturing



Explosives Manufacturing



Feather Products Manufacturing



Felt Manufacturing, burlap, fur, hair, or wood



Felt Manufacturing, cotton



Felt Products Manufacturing



Fencing (wire) Manufacturing



Fertilizer Manufacturing, liquid



Fertilizer Manufacturing, Processing, or Packaging



Fiber Manufacturing



Firearm Manufacturing



Fireworks Manufacturing or Storage



Fish Oil or Fishmeal Manufacturing



Food Products Manufacturing



Frit or Glaze Manufacturing



Fiber Products Manufacturing



Fur Products Manufacturing



Furniture Manufacturing



Garment Manufacturing



Gas Manufacturing



Gelatin Manufacturing



Glass Fiber Manufacturing



Glass Manufacturing



Glass Products Manufacturing



Glove Manufacturing



Glucose Manufacturing



Glue Manufacturing



Golf Balls Manufacturing



Graphite Manufacturing



Grease Manufacturing or Refining



Guncotton Products Manufacturing



Gunpowder Manufacturing and Storage



Gutta-perche, treating or manufacturing products therefrom



Gypsum Manufacturing, Processing, or Grinding



Hair Care Products Manufacturing



Hat Manufacturing



Heating Equipment Manufacturing



Heating Gas Manufacturing



Horn Products Manufacturing



Hosiery Manufacturing



Hydrochloric Acid Manufacturing



Ice Cream Manufacturing



Ice Manufacturing or Distributing



Incinerator Manufacturing



Ink Manufacturing



Inner Spring Manufacturing



Jewelry Manufacturing



Juice Manufacturing



Jute Products Manufacturing



Lacquer Manufacturing



Lampblack Manufacturing



Lard Manufacturing



Leather Machine Belt Manufacturing



Leather Products Manufacturing



Light Sheet Metal Products Manufacturing



Lime Manufacturing



Linoleum Manufacturing



Linseed Oil Manufacturing



Liquid Fertilizers Manufacturing



Liquid Coating for Beverage Tanks, manufacturing of



Machine Belt Manufacturing



Machinery Manufacturing



Mannequin Manufacturing



Mat Manufacturing



Match Manufacturing



Match Manufacturing, safety paper



Metals (precious or semi-precious), manufacturing products of



Metal Stamp Manufacture



Musical Instrument Manufacturing



Nail Manufacturing



Neon Light Manufacturing



Neon Sign Manufacturing



Nitric Acid Manufacturing



Nitrogen Manufacturing, Compressing, and Bulk Storage



Novelties Manufacturing



Oil Manufacture (vegetable)



Optical Goods Manufacturing



Orthopedic or Surgical Supplies Manufacturing



Oxygen Manufacturing, Compressing, and Bulk Storage



Paint Manufacturing



Paint Products Manufacturing



Paper Manufacturing or Converting



Paper Products Manufacturing



Pectin Manufacturing



Perfume Manufacturing



Perfumed Toilet Soap Manufacturing



Petroleum Manufacturing



Pharmaceuticals Manufacturing



Phenol Manufacturing



Phenol Products Manufacturing



Pickle Manufacturing



Pie Manufacturing



Plaster of Paris Manufacturing



Plastic Manufacturing



Plastic Products Manufacturing



Point Manufacturing



Polish Manufacturing



Potash Manufacturing



Pottery Manufacturing



Powdered Metal Parts or Articles Manufacturing



Pulp or Paper Manufacturing



Pyrotechnics Manufacturing



Pyroxylin Manufacturing



Rubber Cement Manufacturing



Rubber Products Manufacturing



Rubber Stamp Manufacturing



Rug Manufacturing



Sandpaper Manufacturing



Sash Manufacturing



Sauerkraut Manufacturing



Sausage Manufacturing



Scientific Instrument and Equipment Manufacturing



Screw Machine Products Manufacturing



Sheet Metal Products Manufacturing, light



Shell Manufacturing



Shellac Manufacturing



Shoddy Manufacturing



Shoe Manufacturing



Shoe Polish Manufacturing



Sign Manufacturing



Size Manufacturing



Soap Manufacturing



Sodium Compounds Manufacturing



Stamp Manufacturing



Starch Manufacturing



Statuary Manufacturing



Steel Pipe Manufacturing



Stencil Manufacturing



Stereo Equipment Manufacturing



Stones (precious or semi-precious), manufacturing products of



Stove Manufacturing



Stove Polish Manufacturing



Sulfuric Acid Manufacturing



Sulfurous Acid Manufacturing



Synthetic Rubber Products Manufacturing



Tallow Manufacturing



Tank Coating Manufacturing



Tank Retinning and Manufacturing



Tar Products Manufacturing



Tar Roofing Manufacturing



Tar Waterproofing Manufacturing



Textile Manufacturing



Textile Product Manufacturing



Tire Manufacturing



Tobacco Products Manufacturing



Toiletries Manufacturing



Tool Manufacturing



Toy Manufacturing



Trailer Manufacturing



Transformer Manufacturing, small



Turpentine Manufacturing



Typewriter Ribbon Manufacturing



Varnish Manufacturing



Vegetable Oil Manufacturing



Venetian Blind Manufacturing



Ventilating Duct Manufacturing



Vinegar Manufacturing



Wall Board Manufacturing



Washer Manufacturing



Waterproofing Compound Manufacturing



Window Manufacturing



Window Shade Manufacturing, cloth



Window Shade Manufacturing, wood or metal



Wire Fencing Manufacturing



Wire Manufacturing



Wood Products Manufacturing



Wool Products Manufacturing



Woven Wire Manufacturing



Yarn Products Manufacturing



Yeast Manufacturing



 



METALS



Blacksmith Shop



Blast Furnace



Blending and Mixing of Compounds for Case Hardening, Tempering



Boiler Works



Bolt or Screw Thread Rolling or Cutting



Brass Foundry



Bronze Casting



Case Hardening



Casting, heavyweight



Die Casting



Drop Forge Industry



Fabrication of Iron or Steel



Fabrication of Light Weight Steel



Forge Plant



Foundry (except iron, steel, brass, manganese, bronze and zinc)



Foundry, iron, steel, brass, manganese, bronze and zinc



Galvanizing of Metal or Metal Products



Heat Treating



Iron Foundry or Fabrication Plant



Iron Ore Pellet Loading and Unloading Facility



Iron Storage, Sorting, Collecting, or Baling



Iron Works, ornamental



Metal Products Inspection by X-Ray



Metal Roll Forming



Metal Spinning



Ore Reduction Plant



Quarry



Roll Forming of Metals, cold process



Rolling Mill



Screw Thread Rolling or Cutting



Sharpening or Grinding of Tools or Cutlery



Smelter, tin, copper, zinc, or iron ores



Steel Foundry or Fabrication Plant and Heavyweight Casting



Steel Mill



Tempering



Welding, acetylene or electric



 



OTHER



Aerosol Packaging



Asbestos Processing or Grinding



Battery Rebuilding



Blending and Mixing of Compounds for Water Softening, Boiler Cleaning



Book Bindery



Bottling Plant



Box and Crate Assembly



Box Factory or Cooperage



Building Materials Sales Yard



Cement Mixer Rental



Central Steam (heated, or chilled water)



Concrete Batching Plant



Cooperage Works



Cornice Works



Distillation of Bones



Earth or Soil Stockpiling, Distribution, or Excavating



Electric Appliance Assembly



Electric Foundry



Electric Motor Repair



Electronic Instruments and Devices Assembly



Electroplating of Small Articles



Electroplating Works



Embalming



Enameling Works



Engraving



Film Development / Printing Machines



Film Laboratory



Fumigating Plant



Funeral Parlor



Furniture Assembly Plant



Furniture Cleaning



Granite (decomposed) Excavating or Stockpiling



Granite Grinding, Dressing, or Cutting



Gravel Plant



Insecticide or Pesticide Blending or Mixing



Lapidary Shop



Liquor or Spirits Rectifying



Lubricating Oil Canning and Packaging



Lumber Yard, retail



Machine Shop



Machine Shop, precision



Machinery (farm) Repairing and Overhauling



Marble Grinding, Dressing, or Cutting



Mattress Factory or Renovating



Mausoleum



Monument Works



Morgue



Mortuary or Mortuary School



Oxygen, storage of compressed



Packaging Business



Paint Mixing



Phonograph Assembly



Photo Developing and Finishing



Pipe Reclaiming



Pipe Storage Yard



Planing Mill



Plaster Staff Works



Polish Mixing, automobile or furniture



Printing Establishment



Printing Establishment, wholesale



Printing or Stenciling Designs on Fabric, Cloth, or Wallpaper



Public Utilities Service Yard



Publishing Establishment



Publishing Establishment, wholesale



Pumping Plant



Radio and Television Assembly



Railroad Repair Shop



Repair Garage



Repair Shop



Research and Development Center Containers



Rock, Sand, Gravel, or Earth Distribution or Storage



Roofing Material Factory



Rope Factory



Roundhouse



Safe and Vault Repairing and Servicing



Salt Works



Salvage Business



Sand Blasting



Sand Pit



Saw Mill



Secondhand Box or Container Storage, Display, Processing, or Sales



Secondhand Furniture and Appliance Storage, Display, Processing, or Sales



Shellac Mixing



Shingle Mill



Starch (liquid) Mixing and Bottling



Stereo Equipment Assembly



Stone Mill or Quarry



Stone Monument Works



Sugar Refining



Testing Laboratory



Top Soil Stripping, Removing, or Stockpiling



Tree Wrecking Yard



Undertaking



Upholstery Shop



Water Softening Unit, servicing and refrigeration plant



Wax Polish Blending, Mixing, and Packaging



Wiping Rag Storage



Wire, application of rubber to



Wood Pulling or Scouring



Wood Yard



Woodworking Equipment Rental Shop



Woodworking Shop



Xeroxing



 



OTHER TRANSPORTATION



Aircraft Engine or Aircraft Part Repairing, Reconditioning, or Rebuilding



Aircraft Engine Testing



Aircraft Factory



Aircraft Fueling Station



Aircraft Hangar



Aircraft Landing Field



Aircraft Repairing



Airport



Boat Building, small



Draying Yard or Terminal



Electric Railroad Yard



Freight Classification Yard, railroad



Freight Forwarding Station or Terminal



Freighting Yard or Terminal



Marine Cargo Loading or Unloading, wharf or dock



Parcel Delivery Service



Railroad Yard



Shipbuilding



Train Station



Wharf or Dock for Marine Cargo



 



PETROLEUM-RELATED USES



Booster Pump Station, with in-line heater system for oil pipeline



Butane Gas Filling Station



Compressed Natural Gas Automotive Refueling Station



Fuel Yard



Gas Storage



Oil Drilling Equipment Yard



Oil Drilling or Pumping and Oil Pipeline Booster Pump Station



Oil Reclaiming



Petroleum Product Bulk Distributing Station



Petroleum Pumping



 



WAREHOUSE / DISTRIBUTION



Agricultural Equipment Sales Yard, wholesale



Appliances (secondhand) Storage, Display, Processing, or Sales



Barrel or Drum (secondhand) Storage, Display, Processing, or Sale



Barrel Storage, empty



Bottle Washing, Collection, or Storage



Boxes and Crates (secondhand) Storage, Display, Processing, or Sales



Cement (bulk) Transfer



Cement (bulk) Unloading and Distribution



Distributing Plant



Equipment Storage Yard



Clay Products Storage



Clay Products Storage Yard



Cold Storage Plant



Contractor's Equipment Rental Yard or Plant



Contractor's Equipment Storage Yard or Plant



Distribution Center, Plant, or Warehouse



Egg Candling and Distribution



Electric Motor Repair, wholesale



Feed Storage and Sales Yard



Fertilizer Sales, wholesale



Furniture (secondhand) Storage, Display, Processing, or Sales



Gravel Distribution



Hay Barn



Ice and Cold Storage Plant



Ice Storage Plant



Lumber Yard, wholesale



Milk Bottling or Distributing Station



Open Storage



Paper Collecting, Sorting, Storage, or Baling



Refrigeration Plant, storage



Sack Storage, Sorting, Collection, or Baling



Sand Distribution Plant



Storage Building



Storage Building for Household Goods, including truck rentals



Storage, open



Warehouse



 



WASTE DISPOSAL / MANAGEMENT



Building Materials Salvage Yard



Cesspool Pumping, Cleaning, and Draining



Chipping and Grinding Activities



Garbage Incineration, Reduction, or Dumping



Garbage, Fat, Offal, or Dead Animal Reduction or Rendering



Gardener's Refuse Collection Yard or Station



Hazardous Waste Facility, disposal



Hazardous Waste Facility, storage and/or treatment



Junk Yard



Junk Collection, Sorting, Storage, or Baling



Leaf Mold Storage, Composting, and Packaging



Lumber Yard, used materials and salvaging



Machinery Wrecking or Storage Yard



Manure Storage or Processing



Medical Waste Treatment



Mulching Facility



Offal or Dead Animal Dumping



Paper Scrap or Waste Storage



Storage, Sorting, Collecting, or Baling



Recyclable Materials Collection, Buyback Centers, Mobile Recycling Centers



Recycling Material Processing Facility



Refuse Dump



Refuse Transfer Station



Rubbish Incinerator or Storage



Sanitary Landfill



Scrap Iron Collection, Sorting, Storage, or Baling



Scrap Metal Collection, Sorting, Storage, or Baling



Scrap Metal Processing Yard



Sewage Treatment Facility



Sewage Disposal or Treatment Plant



Solid Waste Alternative Technology Processing Facility



 



   F.   Development Regulations.  A project shall be subject to the
following development regulations.  A project that has been granted vested
rights under Section 12.26 A.3. of this Code prior to the effective date of
this ordinance is exempt.



 



(Table 1 below provides a cross reference of development regulations by
applicable project context.  The regulation for a project within 1,000 feet
of a Freeway or specified State Route shall be found in Section 13.18 F.4. of
this Code.)



 




Table 1:  Development Regulations by Applicable Project Context




 



 




Development Regulations

 

Subject Use

 

Subject Use Adjacent to Publicly Habitable Spaces

 

Publicly Habitable Spaces Adjacent to Public Use




Applicability

 

Reference

 

Applicability

 

Reference

 

Applicability

 

Reference



Site Planning
 

√

 

13.18 F.1.(a)

 

√

 

13.18 F.2.(a)

 

√

 

13.18 F.3.(a)



Signage
 


 


 

√

 

13.18 F.2.(b)

 


 




Lighting
 

√

 

13.18 F.1.(b)

 

√

 

13.18 F.2.(a)

 


 




Enclosure
 

√

 

13.18 F.1.(c)

 

√

 

13.18 F.2.(c)

 


 




Fencing
 


 


 

√

 

13.18 F.2.(d)

 


 




Distancing Requirement
 


 


 

√

 

13.18 F.2.(e)

 


 




Building Height
 


 


 

√

 

13.18 F.2.(f),
13.18 F.2.(g)

 


 




Yard Setback
 


 


 

√

 

13.18 F.2.(h)

 


 




Landscaping
 


 


 

√

 

13.18 F.2.(i)

 

√

 

13.18 F.3.(b)



Parking Design
 


 


 

√

 

13.18 F.2.(j)

 

√

 

13.18 F.3.(c)



Driveway
 


 


 

√

 

13.18F.2.(k)

 


 




Noise
 


 


 

√

 

13.18 F.2.(l)

 


 




Storage of Merchandise
 


 


 

√

 

13.18 F.2.(m)

 


 






 



   1.   Subject Use.  Any Subject Use, as listed in 13.18 E.2.(d) of
this Code, shall comply with the following development standards if the
Project Type (pursuant to 13.18 E.1.) is applicable.



 



   (a)   Site Planning (applies to project types:  NEW, MAJOR
IMPROVEMENT, ADDITION, CHANGE OF USE).



 



   (1)   All trash receptacles shall be located within a gated, covered
enclosure at least six feet in height.



 



   (2)   Chain link, barbed wire, and concertina wire fences are
prohibited at the perimeter of the property.



 



   (b)   Lighting (applies to project types:  NEW, MAJOR IMPROVEMENT,
ADDITION, CHANGE OF USE).  All outdoor lighting systems shall be directed
away from the window of any residential uses and shall comply with the
non-residential Light Pollution Reduction standards in the Green Building
Code of this Code.



 



   (c)   Enclosure (applies to project types:  NEW, ADDITION, CHANGE
OF USE).  A use, material or equipment that emits or generates dust, smoke,
gas, fumes, cinder or refuse matter shall be completely enclosed with
mechanical ventilation to prevent fugitive emissions unless another
regulatory agency requires natural ventilation.  A stack, vent or flare is
exempt from this enclosure requirement.



 



   2.   Subject Use Adjacent to Publicly Habitable Spaces.



 



   (a)   All the standards in Section 13.18 F.1.(a) and 13.18 F.1.(b)
(applies to project types:  NEW, MAJOR IMPROVEMENT, ADDITION, CHANGE OF USE).



 



   (b)   Signage (applies to project types:  NEW, MAJOR IMPROVEMENTS,
ADDITION, CHANGE OF USE).  Any use adjacent to Publicly Habitable Spaces
with commercial vehicles, as defined by California Code of Regulations Title
13 Chapter 10 Section 2480 and 2485, shall post “No Idling” signage
onsite at the back of the curb and adjacent to the entrance of at least one
driveway where truck loading, staging or parking occurs.



 



   (c)   Enclosure (applies to project types:  NEW, MAJOR IMPROVEMENT,
ADDITION, CHANGE OF USE).  A use, material or equipment that emits or
generates dust, smoke, gas, fumes, cinder or refuse matter shall be
completely enclosed with mechanical ventilation for the improved portions of
the project to prevent fugitive emissions, unless another regulatory agency
requires natural ventilation.  A stack, vent and flare is exempt from this
enclosure requirement.



 



   (d)   Fencing (applies to project types:  NEW, MAJOR IMPROVEMENT,
ADDITION, CHANGE OF USE).  A use that abuts a Publicly Habitable Space shall
construct a 6-foot high solid concrete or masonry wall for the entire length
of the property line in the following zones:  C2, C4, CM, MR1, M1, MR2, M2
and M3.  The wall shall be without openings and shall have a minimum nominal
thickness of 6 inches.



 



   (e)   Distancing Requirement (applies to project types:  NEW,
CHANGE OF USE).  Any new automobile dismantling yard, exhaust test station,
automobile laundries (car wash), automotive repair, used auto retail sales,
assembly of auto parts and accessories, tire shop, tire repair, and wholesale
auto parts and accessory facilities are prohibited within 500 feet of a
residential zone.



 



   (f)   Building Height (applies to project types:  NEW).  Any new
building or structure shall be within an encroachment plane sloping upward
and inward at a 45 degree angle commencing 20 feet above the existing grade
at the inside line of the side yard setback as illustrated below:



 



   [Click here to view image]



 



   Encroachment plane standards shall only be required when a Subject Use
is abutting a Publicly Habitable Space.



 



   (g)   Building Height (applies to project types:  ADDITIONS).  Any
additions to an existing building or structure shall be within an
encroachment plane sloping upward and inward at a 45 degree angle commencing
above the existing roof at the inside of the side yard setback as illustrated
below:



 



   [Click here to view image]



 



   Encroachment plane standards shall only be required when a Subject Use
is abutting a Publicly Habitable Space.



 



   (h)   Yard Setback (applies to project types:  NEW, ADDITION).  A
new building, structure or addition shall provide the following setbacks
indicated in Table 2 when abutting a Publicly Habitable Space. This
regulation is not eligible for an Adjustment pursuant to Section 13.18
G.3.(c) of this Code.



 




Table 2: Manufacturing Zone Setbacks




 



 



 

MR1 | M1 | MR2 | M2

 

M3




Front

 

lot depth ≤ 100 ft: 5 ft
lot depth > 100 ft: 15 ft

 

5% of lot depth, 5% of lot width; no less than 15 ft if within 500 ft if a PHS




Side

 

lot width ≤ 30 ft: 3 ft
lot width > 30, < 50 ft: 5 ft
lot width ≥ 50: 15 ft




Rear

 

lot depth ≤ 100 ft: 5 ft
lot depth > 100 ft: 15 ft




 



   (i)   Landscaping (applies to project types:  NEW, MAJOR
IMPROVEMENT, ADDITION, CHANGE of USE).



 



   (1)   Setbacks.  All required side and back yard setbacks in
Section 13.18 F.2.(h) abutting a Publicly Habitable Space shall be landscaped
to provide a buffer.



 



   (2)   Planting.  A Landscape Practitioner shall select trees or
hedges that are between 6 and 8 feet high, low in water use, low in biogenic
emissions, high in carbon and particulate matter filtration qualities, and
retain foliage for most months of the year.  Trees shall be limited to
selections from the Department of Public Works Bureau of Street Services,
Street Tree Selection Guide, except non-drought tolerant trees and Palms
shall be prohibited.  A minimum of one tree shall be planted and maintained
every 10 linear feet within the setback.  A list of preferred trees is also
provided in the CUGU application packet available at the Planning
Department’s Development Services Counter.  Landscape Plans shall be
submitted to the Department of City Planning for approval.



 



   (3)   Irrigation.  Project applicants shall design and install
irrigation systems pursuant to Guidelines BB – Irrigation Specification,
promulgated pursuant to Section 12.41 B.2. of this Code.



 



   (j)   Surface Parking Lot Design (applies to project types:  NEW,
MAJOR IMPROVEMENT, ADDITION, CHANGE of USE).



 



   (1)   Layout.  New on-site parking and loading areas (including
service bays) shall be at the rear or side of the building.



 



   (2)   Screening.  An existing or new parking lot that abuts a
public right-of-way with five or more new spaces shall be screened at the
perimeter by either landscape or hardscape.



 



   (i)   A landscaped screen shall be a combination of trees and
shrubs.  One tree shall be planted and maintained every 15 linear feet in
accordance with Section 13.18 F.2.(i)(2) of this Code.  Shrubs shall be
planted and maintained between trees to create a visual screen. 
Illustrations of this requirement are provided in the CUGU application packet.



 



   (ii)   A hardscape screen shall be a wall, barrier, or fence of
uniform appearance that is opaque or perforated (provided no more than 50
percent of the face is open).  The structure shall be no less than 3 feet 6
inches in height.  Chain link, barbed wire and concertina wire fences are
prohibited.



 



   (3)   Tree Planting.  One tree for every 4 new parking spaces shall
be planted within the surface parking lot.  When the application of these
regulations results in the requirement of a fractional of a tree, any
fraction over one-half shall be construed as requiring a whole tree. 
Parking spaces covered by solar carports functioning as shade structures are
exempt from the calculation.  Non-solar carports are not exempt from the
calculation.



 



   (i)   The surface lot shall be graded to allow for ground water
recharge into a minimum 3-foot by 3-foot unpaved planting area.  This
unpaved area shall be concave in design to receive runoff per Bureau of
Engineering specifications.



 



   (k)   Driveway (applies to project types:  NEW, MAJOR IMPROVEMENT,
ADDITION, CHANGE OF USE).



 



   (1)   A new driveway shall maintain the minimum width required by
Section 12.21 A.5.(f) of the LAMC, unless otherwise required by the
Department of Transportation or Fire Department.



 



   (2)   For parcels less than 100 feet in width, the total sum of any
new and existing driveway shall be no more than 30 percent of the total
street frontage of the property.  If existing conditions exceed 30 percent,
no new driveway shall be added.



 



   (3)   For parcels equal to or greater than 100 feet in width, the
total sum of any new and existing driveway shall be no more than 20 percent
of the total street frontage of the property.  If existing conditions exceed
30 percent, no new driveway shall be added.



 



   (l)   Noise (applies to project types:  NEW, MAJOR IMPROVEMENT,
ADDITION, CHANGE OF USE).



 



   (1)   A noise generating use or activity shall not exceed the
presumed ambient noise level specified by zone in Table II of Section 111.03
of the LAMC.



 



   (i)   An applicant shall submit to the Department of City Planning
an acoustic evaluation report issued by a licensed noise consulting
professional which identifies compliance options for noise mitigation.  An
applicant shall comply with the stated performance-based mitigation measures.



 



   (ii)   Baseline and other ambient noise levels shall be measured at
the property line.  If the ambient sound levels at the site exceed the
allowable ambient levels in Table II, the existing site’s ambient level
becomes the new allowable baseline and no increase in that level shall be
allowed.



 



   (2)   An applicant whose project include a noise generating use or
activity shall submit an acoustic evaluation report prepared by a licensed
consulting professional which includes current and projected noise levels at
the site.  The report shall include compliance options for noise mitigation
measures.  An applicant shall comply with all mitigated measures.  Noise
levels shall be measured per Section 13.18 F.2.(l)(1)(ii) of this Code.



 



   (m)   Storage of Merchandise and Materials (applies to project
types:  NEW, MAJOR IMPROVEMENT, ADDITION, CHANGE OF USE).



 



   (1)   All open air storage of merchandise or materials shall be
confined within a storage area enclosed by a solid, non-combustible wall with
self-closing gates, except for construction equipment.



 



   (i)   All outdoor storage shall comply with the height restrictions
for materials and equipment per Section 12.19 A.4.(b)(3) of this Code.



 



   (2)   Materials that are subject to releasing dust or particulate
matter shall be covered or completely enclosed.



 



   (3)   Barbed wire, chain linked and concertina wire fences are
prohibited at the perimeter of the property.



 



   3.   Publicly Habitable Spaces Adjacent to Subject Uses.



 



   (a)   Site Plan (applies to project types:  NEW).  Required and/or
voluntary open space shall be fully buffered from a Subject Use or freeway by
a building on the same project site.



 



   (b)   Landscaping (applies to project types:  NEW, MAJOR
IMPROVEMENT, ADDITION, CHANGE OF USE).



 



   (1)   Except for front yards, all required yards abutting a Subject
Use shall be landscaped as follows:



 



   (i)   A Landscape Practitioner shall select trees or shrubs that
will grow to be between six and eight feet high when mature, low in water
use, low in biogenic emissions, high in carbon and particulate matter
filtration qualities, and retain foliage for most months of the year.  Trees
shall be limited to selections from the Department of Public Works Bureau of
Street Services, Street Tree Selection Guide, except for non-drought tolerant
trees and Palms.  A list of preferred trees is also provided in the CUGU
application packet.



 



   (ii)   Irrigation.  Project applicants shall design and install
irrigation systems pursuant to Guidelines BB – Irrigation Specification of
Section 12.41 B.2. of the LAMC.



 



   (c)   Parking Design (applies to project types:  NEW, ADDITIONS,
MAJOR IMPROVEMENT, CHANGE of USE).  Any parking lots with five or more
parking stalls shall comply with the requirements in Section 13.18 F.2.(j) of
this Code.



 



   4.   Municipal Projects Adjacent to Freeway and State Route 47.



 



   (a)   Signage (applies to project types:  NEW, MAJOR IMPROVEMENT,
ADDITION, CHANGE OF USE).  Any municipal buildings open to the public and
located within 1,000 feet of a freeway shall post a sign to notify the public
as follows:



 



   “NOTICE:  Air pollution studies show a strong link between the
chronic exposure of populations to vehicle exhaust and particulate matter
from major roads and freeways and elevated risk of adverse health impacts,
particularly in sensitive populations such as young children and older
adults.  Areas located within 500 feet of the freeway are known to
experience the greatest concentration of ultrafine particulate matter and
other pollutants implicated in asthma and other health conditions.”



 



   The sign shall be posted at a shared main entrance or shared
facility.  Public parks shall post signage in restrooms.  The sign must
meet the following requirements:



 



   (1)   A minimum size of 8.5" x 11";



 



   (2)   Garamond bold condensed font type at 28 point font size;



 



   (3)   English or English and Spanish;



 



   (4)   Durable sign made from plastic or aluminum or other hard
surface; and



 



   (5)   Fixed to a wall, door, or other physical structure.



 



   G.   Issuance of Building Permits.  For any Project within a CUGU
District, the Department of Building and Safety shall not issue any permits,
including, but not limited to, grading, shoring or building unless an
Administrative Clearance, CUGU Adjustment, or CUGU Exception has been
obtained pursuant to the applicable procedures in Section 13.18 G. of this
Code.



 



   H.   Review Procedures for Projects within CUGU District.



 



   1.   Application.  All Projects proposed within a CUGU District
shall be submitted for approval with a CUGU application and form available at
the Planning Department’s Development Services Counter.  Prior to deeming
the whether the application is complete, the Director shall determine and
advise the applicant, if necessary, of the processes to be followed,
materials to be submitted, and fees to be paid.  The granting of the CUGU
approval shall not imply or be deemed to constitute compliance within any
other applicable provisions of this Code.



 



   2.   Administrative Clearance – Authority of the Director.  An
applicant who complies with the CUGU District regulations shall submit plans
to the Director for an Administrative Clearance pursuant to Section 12.32
S.4. of this Code.  Applicants requesting an Adjustment shall submit plans
per Subdivision 3. below.  A project that cannot comply with the
requirements of the CUGU District may request relief through the Exception
procedures set forth in Subdivision 4. of this section.



 



   3.   Adjustments – Director Authority with Appeal to the Area
Planning Commission.  The Director or the Director’s designee shall have
initial decision-making authority to grant a CUGU Adjustment with an appeal
to the Area Planning Commission in accordance with the procedures set forth
in Section 11.5.7 C.4. - 6. of this Code.



 



   (a)   Limitations.  Unless otherwise limited by the CUGU District,
a CUGU Adjustment shall be limited to deviations of up to 20 percent from
each of the quantitative development regulations.



 



   If applicable, each adopted CUGU District shall indicate those
development regulations which are not eligible for an Adjustment through this
section.  If an application requests more than one CUGU Adjustment, the
Director may advise the applicant, prior to the application being deemed
complete, that the request be filed and processed as a CUGU Exception,
pursuant to Subdivision 4. of this section.



 



   (b)   Findings.  The Director may grant an Adjustment upon making
all of the following findings:



 



   (1)   Special circumstances applicable to the Project or project
site exist which make the strict application of the CUGU regulation(s)
impractical;



 



   (2)   The Project, as approved, is consistent with the purpose and
intent of the CUGU District and substantially complies with the applicable
CUGU regulations; and



 



   (3)   In granting the Adjustment, the Director has considered and
finds no detrimental effects of the Adjustment on surrounding properties, the
public, or public rights-of-way.



 



   (c)   All Projects seeking relief from any development regulation
designated in the CUGU District as not eligible for Adjustment shall be
processed through the CUGU Exception procedures listed in Subdivision 4. of
this section.



 



   4.   Exceptions – Area Planning Commission Authority with Appeals
to the City Council.



 



   (a)   Authority.  The Area Planning Commission shall have initial
decision-making authority for granting an Exception from the CUGU District
regulations with an appeal to the City Council in accordance with the
procedures set forth in Section 11.5.7 F.3. - 8. of this Code.



 



   In granting an Exception from CUGU regulations, the Area Planning
Commission shall impose conditions to protect the public health, safety, and
welfare; and to assure compliance with the objectives of the General Plan and
the purpose and intent of the CUGU District. An Exception from a CUGU
regulation shall not be used to grant a special privilege, nor to grant
relief from a self-imposed hardship.



 



   (b)   Findings.  The Area Planning Commission may permit an
Exception from a CUGU regulation if it makes all the following findings:



 



   (1)   The strict application of the CUGU regulations to the subject
property would result in practical difficulties or an unnecessary hardship
inconsistent with the general purpose and intent of the CUGU District and its
regulations;



 



   (2)   Exceptional circumstances or conditions applicable to the
subject property involved or to the intended use or development of the
subject property exist that do not apply generally to other properties in the
CUGU District;



 



   (3)   An Exception from the CUGU regulation is necessary for the
preservation and enjoyment of a substantial property right or use generally
possessed by other property within the CUGU District and in the same zone and
vicinity but which, because of a special circumstance and practical
difficulties or unnecessary hardship, is denied to the property in question;



 



   (4)   The granting of an Exception will not be detrimental to the
public welfare or injurious to the property or improvements adjacent to, or
in the vicinity of, the subject property; and



 



   (5)   The granting of an exception will be consistent with the
principles, intent and goals of the CUGU District and any applicable element
of the General Plan.



 



   I.   Severability.  If any provision of this ordinance is found to
be unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent
jurisdiction, that invalidity shall not affect the remaining provisions of
this ordinance, which can be implemented without the invalid provisions and,
to this end, the provisions of this ordinance are declared to be severable. 
The City Council hereby declares that it would have adopted each and every
provision and portion thereof not declared invalid or unconstitutional,
without regard to whether any portion of the ordinance would be subsequently
declared invalid or unconstitutional.



 



 



SEC. 13.19.  "RG" SINGLE-FAMILY ZONE REAR DETACHED GARAGE DISTRICT.



   (Added by Ord. No. 184,802, Eff. 3/17/17.)



 



   A.   Purpose.  The regulations set forth in this Section are to
facilitate the compatible placement of garages on lots in single-family
residential zones where the predominant building form includes a main
building with a rear detached garage.  These regulations mandate that the
covered parking requirement for single-family zoned properties within the
district be satisfied by a private garage and not by any open air building or
carport.  The regulations for this district also mandate that the garage be
detached and placed within the rear half of the lot.  For purposes of this
section, "garage" is defined as a building enclosed by walls with a door or
doors that meet the requirements of Section 12.21 A.4.(a).



 



   B.   Applicability.  A district established pursuant to this
section shall be a grouping of lots zoned RA, RE, RS, or R1 not located in a
Hillside Area or Coastal Zone.



 



   C.   Limitations.  All lots within a district shall be subject to
the following conditions:



 



   1.   The covered parking requirement of the Code shall be satisfied
by a private garage and not by any open air building or carport.



 



   2.   Garages required in Subdivision 1.:



 



   (a)   shall be located within the rear half of the lot, or at least
55 feet from a Front Lot Line;



 



   (b)   shall be detached from the main building of the lot; and



 



   (c)   shall comply with Section 12.21 C.5. of this Code.



 



   3.   Exceptions to Subdivision 2. of this Subsection.



 



   (a)   Lots 3,000 square feet or less, shall not be subject to
paragraphs (a) and (b) in Subdivision 2. of this Subsection.



 



   (b)   Notwithstanding, Section 12.21 C.5.(k), Through Lots with no
Rear Lot Line shall set back the garage from both Front Lot Lines a distance
of at least 40 feet and shall not be subject to paragraph (a) in Subdivision
2. of this Subsection.



 



   (c)   Through Lots with no Rear Lot Line and a lot depth less than
100 feet shall be exempt from Paragraph (a) of Subdivision 2. of this
Subsection.



 



 



SEC. 13.20.  "HCR" HILLSIDE CONSTRUCTION REGULATION DISTRICT.



   (Added by Ord. No. 184,827, Eff. 3/24/17.)



 



   A.   Purpose.  This section sets forth procedures and guidelines
for the establishment of the Hillside Construction Regulation (HCR) District
in residential areas of the City.  The purpose of the HCR District is to
impose more restrictive grading limits and hauling operation standards than
what is generally permitted by this Code in areas where the proposed district
is adopted, thus reducing construction impacts.



 



   B.   Establishment of the District.  The procedures set forth in
Section 12.32 S. of this Code shall be followed, however, each HCR District
shall include only properties in residential zones.  Boundaries shall be
along street frontages and shall not split parcels.  A HCR District may
encompass an area which is designated, in whole or in part, as a Historic
Preservation Overlay Zone (HPOZ) and/or Specific Plan.  The HCR District
shall include contiguous parcels, which may only be separated by Streets,
ways or alleys or other physical features, or as set forth in applicable
rules approved by the Director of Planning.  Precise boundaries are required
at the time of application to expand or create a HCR District.



 



   C.   Relationship to other Zoning Regulations.  Unless the
provisions of this section state otherwise, the underlying base zone
regulations applicable to a given project in a HCR District shall prevail
pursuant to Sections 12.03, 12.04, 12.05, 12.07.01, 12.07.1, 12.08, 12.21,
12.23 and 12.32.  Where the provisions of the HCR District conflict with
those of a Specific Plan or HPOZ, then the provisions of the Specific Plan or
HPOZ shall prevail.  If provisions of the HCR District conflict with any
other City-wide regulations in this Code or with provisions of other
supplemental use districts other than the Specific Plan or HPOZ, then the
requirements of the HCR shall prevail.



 



   D.   Development Regulations.  Single-family home developments
within a HCR District shall comply with each of the following Grading,
Hauling and Hauling Operation Standards, as applicable:



 



   1.   Maximum Grading.  For any single lot, the total cumulative
quantity of Grading, or the total combined value of both Cut and Fill for the
import and export of earth, or incremental Cut and Fill for Import and Export
of earth shall be limited to the "by-right" maximum pursuant to Section 12.21
C.10. and shall not exceed 6,000 cubic yards.



 



   2.   Maximum Import and/or Export for Hillside Areas Fronting
Substandard Streets.  For a lot which fronts onto a Substandard Hillside
Limited Street, as defined in Section 12.03 of this Code, the total
cumulative quantity of Import and Export of earth combined, shall be no more
than 75 percent of the "by-right" maximum pursuant to Section 12.21 C.10. and
shall not exceed 6,000 cubic yards.



 



   3.   Hauling Truck Trips.  A maximum of four trucks are permitted
to haul per hour per project site.  A grouping or convoy of hauling vehicles
shall not be allowed; only one hauling vehicle is permitted per project site
at any one time.



 



   4.   Hauling Truck Operations.  As conditions of project approval
for the issuance of a grading or building permit for projects in a HCR
District, each of the following hauling operation standards shall be met:



 



   (a)   Projects required to obtain a Haul Route approval from the
Board of Building and Safety Commissioners for the import and/or export of
1,000 cubic yards or more of earth material shall prominently post the final
action letter with the approved Haul Route staff report on the job site at
all times.



 



   (b)   No grading shall be performed within any areas designated
"hillside" unless a copy of the grading permit is prominently posted on the
job site at all times.



 



   (c)   All hauling vehicles must be identified by a placard
identifying the project address which shall be prominently displayed on each
hauling vehicle.



 



   5.   Equipment.  As conditions of project approval for the issuance
of a grading or building permit for projects in a HCR District, each of the
following equipment standards shall be met:



 



   (a)   10-wheeler dump trucks (with a 10 cubic yard capacity) or
smaller are the only type of trucks permitted for hauling of earth. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board of Building and Safety Commissioners
may authorize the use of other types of hauling vehicles for a project
through the Haul Route approval process.



 



   (b)   Hauling and grading equipment shall be kept in good operating
condition and muffled as required by law.



 



   6.   Operating Hours and Construction Activity.  Compliance with
each of the following standards shall be required for all projects in a HCR
District requiring the issuance of a grading or building permit.  However,
if a Haul Route approval by the Board of Building and Safety Commissioners is
required for import and/or export of 1,000 cubic yards or more, then the
conditions set by the Board of Building and Safety Commissioners during the
Haul Route approval process shall prevail and the following standards shall
not apply.



 



   (a)   Hauling operations shall be conducted only on Monday through
Friday, between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m.  Hauling operations on
Saturdays, Sundays, or state or federal designated holidays is strictly
prohibited.



 



   (b)   Haul trucks shall be staged off-site and outside of the HCR
District. As deemed necessary, the Board of Building and Safety Commissioners
may permit staging on-site or in any alternate staging area by special
condition during the Haul Route Approval process.



 



   (c)   Construction activity shall be limited to Monday through
Friday, between the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.  Exterior construction
work at any other time is strictly prohibited.  However, interior
construction work may be conducted on Saturdays between the hours of 8:00
a.m. to 6:00 p.m.  Excess exterior illumination of the site through the use
of flood lights and/or similar lighting devices is strictly prohibited after
6:00 p.m. on any day of the week.



 



   (d)   A log noting the dates of hauling activity and the number of
hauling truck trips per day shall be available on the job site at all times.



 



   (e)   The owner or contractor shall control dust caused by grading
and hauling and provide reasonable control of dust caused or exacerbated by
wind at all times.  Grading and hauling activities shall be discontinued
during periods of high winds and Red Flag days as determined by the Los
Angeles Fire Department.



 



   (f)   Loads shall be secured by trimming and shall be covered to
prevent spillage and dust.  Haul trucks are to be contained at the export
site to prevent blowing of dirt and are to be cleaned of loose earth at the
export site to prevent spilling.



 



   (g)   Streets shall be cleaned of spilled materials at the
termination of each workday.



 



   (h)   "Truck Crossing" warning signs shall be placed 300 feet in
advance of the exit from the project site in each direction.



 



   (i)   Flag person(s) shall be required for all project sites. Flag
persons with radio control and warning signs shall be in compliance with the
latest edition of the "Work Area Traffic Control Handbook."  Flag persons
provided at the job site shall assist trucks in and out of the project area.



 



   7.   Review Procedures for single-family home developments larger
than 17,500 square feet.  The construction, erection, addition to,
enlargement of or reconfiguration of any one-family dwelling that has a
cumulative Residential Floor Area of 17,500 square feet or larger shall
submit an application for a Site Plan Review before the issuance of related
permits and entitlements.  Application procedures and processing of the
application shall be pursuant to Section 16.05 of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code.



 



 



SEC. 13.21.  VIOLATION.



   (Renumbered by Ord. No. 184,827, Eff. 3/24/17.)



 



   The violation of any condition imposed by a Zoning Administrator,
Director of Planning, the Area Planning Commission, City Planning Commission
or City Council in approving the site requirements, methods of operation,
development plans or other actions taken pursuant to the authority contained
in this article shall constitute a violation of this Code.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 4
PUBLIC BENEFIT PROJECTS



 




(Title Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)




 



 



Section



14.00   Public Benefit Projects.



 



 



SEC. 14.00.  PUBLIC BENEFIT PROJECTS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)



 



   A.   Public Benefit Projects and Performance Standards.  Where not
permitted by right or by Conditional Use Permit pursuant to Subsections U.,
V. or W. of Section 12.24, the following public benefit uses are permitted in
any zone, unless restricted to certain zones or locations.  The uses shall
meet the following performance standards or alternative compliance measures
approved pursuant to Subsection B.  (First Para. Amended by Ord. No.
173,992, Eff. 7/6/01.)



 



   1.   Cemeteries.



 



   (a)   Performance Standards:



 



   (1)   All buildings on the site are at least 300 feet from any
adjoining street or any A or R zoned property or residential use;



 



   (2)   Security night lighting is shielded so that the light source
cannot be seen from adjacent residential properties;



 



   (3)   There is a solid, decorative, masonry or wrought iron wall or
fence at least eight feet in height, or the maximum height permittee by the
zone, whichever is less.  The wall or fence encircles the periphery of the
property and does not extend into the required front yard setback;



 



   (4)   The front yard setback is as least as deep as the setback
required by the zone;



 



   (5)   The property is improved with a ten foot landscaped buffer
along the periphery of the property which is maintained and is equipped with
an automatic irrigation system;



 



   (6)   The site has only one double-faced monument sign, with a
maximum of 20 square feet per side;



 



   (7)   All graffiti on the site is removed or painted over in the
same  color as the surface to which it is applied within 24 hours of its
occurrence;  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)



 



   (8)   All streets, alleys or sidewalks adjoining the property meet 
standard street dimensions;  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)



 



   (9)   The use meets the parking requirements of Section 12.21 A.;
and  (Added by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)



 



   (10)   The property has sufficient areas for assembly.  (Added by
Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)



 



   (b)   Purposes:  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.) The
purposes of these Performance Standards are to provide landscaping, open
space, scale, bulk, height, yards and setbacks,  particularly with regard to
the main building, which are similar to those in the adjacent properties in
the neighborhood.  Signage, where permitted by city regulations, should not
exceed in size or number those located on the same block or across the street
from the site.  The noise levels created on the site should not increase the
ambient noise level on adjoining or abutting properties after completion of
the project.  Sufficient off-street parking should be provided so as to
preclude the need for utilization of on-street parking by the use allowed on
the site.  Assembly areas for funeral services should be located so as not
to block the City streets.  City streets should meet City standards in order
to ensure safe vehicular ingress and egress to the site and to ensure that
traffic does not exceed the current level of service.  Ingress and egress to
the main buildings or uses on the site should be sufficient to accommodate
expected usage by the public and/or occupants of the facility.  Access to
and from the site should be sufficient to meet police and fire safety needs
beyond the explicit requirements of City codes as determined by the Police,
Fire and Building and Safety Departments.  Lighting on the site should be
located so as to not reflect on adjoining residential uses.  A decorative
wall or fence should be located to ensure protection for the site and
adjacent uses.  Graffiti should be prevented and eliminated when it is found
on the site.



 



   2.   Density increase for a Housing Development Project to provide
for additional density in excess of that permitted in Section 12.22 A.25. 
(Subdivision Title Amended by Ord. No. 179,681, Eff. 4/15/08.)



 



   (a)   Performance Standards:



 



   (1)   The development project contains the requisite number of
Restricted Affordable Units as set forth in Section 12.24 U.26.(a)(1) through
(5) of the Los Angeles Municipal Code; (Amended by Ord. No. 185,373, Eff.
2/26/18.)



 



   (2)   The development project complies with the standards contained
in the Affordable Housing Incentives Guidelines approved by the City Planning
Commission;



 



   (3)   The use is conducted in conformance with the City’s noise
regulations pursuant to Chapter 11 of this Code;



 



   (4)   No buildings are higher than any main building on adjoining
property;



 



   (5)   All portions of the required front yard not used for necessary
driveways and walkways, including decorative walkways, are landscaped and
maintained, not otherwise paved, and equipped with an automatic irrigation
system;



 



   (6)   The development meets the open space requirements of Section
12.21 G.;



 



   (7)   Only one identification sign is displayed on the site and it
is on the building face.  The sign does not exceed 20 square feet, does not
extend more than two feet beyond the wall of the building, and does not
project above the roof ridge or parapet wall (whichever is higher) of the
building;



 



   (8)   Security night lighting is shielded so that the light source
cannot be seen from adjacent residential properties;



 



   (9)   Yards, at a minimum, should meet Code requirements or those
prevalent on adjoining or abutting properties, whichever is the most
restrictive;



 



   (10)   All graffiti on the site is removed or painted over in the
same color as the surface to which it is applied within 24 hours of its
occurrence;(Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)



 



   (11)   Parking areas are landscaped pursuant to the requirements of
Section 12.21 A.6.;(Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)



 



   (12)   All streets, alleys and sidewalks adjoining the property meet
standard street dimensions;  (Added by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)



 



   (13)   A solid, decorative, masonry or wrought iron wall or fence at
least six feet in height, or the maximum height permitted by the zone,
whichever is less.  The wall or fence encircles the periphery of the
property and does not extend into the required front yard setback; and 
(Amended by Ord. No. 177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.)



 



   (14)   There are no outdoor public telephones on the site.  (Added
by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)



 



   (b)   Purposes:  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.) The
purposes of these Performance Standards are to provide for landscaping, open
space, scale, bulk, height, yards and setbacks, particularly with regard to
the main buildings, which are similar to those in the adjacent properties in
the neighborhood.  Signage, where permitted by City regulations, should not
exceed in size or number those located on the same block or across the street
from the site.  The noise levels created on the site should not increase the
ambient noise level so as to be disturbing to persons on adjoining or
abutting properties after completion of the project.  Public telephones on
the site should be located to discourage loitering.  Sufficient off-street
parking should be provided to preclude the need for utilization of on-street
parking by the use allowed on the site.  The proposed use should be designed
in a manner that will minimize the generation of loitering of individuals on
or adjacent to the site.  City streets should meet City standards in order
to ensure safe vehicular ingress and egress to the site and to ensure that
traffic does not exceed the current level of service.  Access to and from
the site should be sufficient to meet police and fire safety needs beyond the
explicit requirements of City codes as determined by the Police, Fire and
Building and Safety Departments.  Lighting on the site should not reflect on
adjoining residential uses.  Walls, fences, or other visible security
devices should be similar to those on the adjoining properties.  Graffiti
should be prevented and eliminated when it is found on the site.  The use
should encourage the availability of affordable housing.



 



   3.   Libraries, museums, fire or police stations or governmental
enterprises which are controlled by this article.



 



   (a)   Performance Standards:



 



   (1)   The use is conducted in conformance with the City’s noise
regulations pursuant to Chapter 11 of this Code;



 



   (2)   There are no outdoor public telephones on the site;  (Amended
by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)



 



   (3)   No buildings are higher than any structure on adjoining
property;



 



   (4)   No guard dogs are used to patrol at night;



 



   (5)   There is no use of barbed, razor or concertina wire;



 



   (6)   Security lighting is provided in parking areas;



 



   (7)   Setbacks are at least as deep as required for institutions by
Section 12.21 C.3.;



 



   (8)   The property is improved with a ten foot landscaped buffer
along the periphery of the property which is maintained and is equipped with
an automatic irrigation system;



 



   (9)   Parking areas are landscaped pursuant to the requirements of
Section 12.21 A.6.;



 



   (10)   Only one identification sign is displayed on the site and it
is on the building face.  The sign does not exceed 20 square feet, and does
not extend more than two feet beyond the wall of the building, and does not
project above the roof ridge or parapet wall (whichever is higher) of the
building;



 



   (11)   Security night lighting is shielded so that the light source
cannot be seen from adjacent residential properties;



 



   (12)   All graffiti on the site is removed or painted over in the
same color as the surface to which it is applied within 24 hours of its
occurrence;



 



   (13)   The use meets the parking requirements of Section 12.21 A.;



 



   (14)   The site is a corner site;



 



   (15)   The majority of the frontage is on a major or secondary
highway; and



 



   (16)   All streets, alleys and sidewalks adjoining the property meet
standard street dimensions.



 



   (b)   Purposes:  The purposes of these Performance Standards are to
provide for landscaping, open space, scale, bulk, height, yards and
setbacks,  particularly with regard to the main buildings, which are similar
to those in the adjacent properties in the neighborhood.  Signage, where
permitted by city regulations, should not exceed in size or number those
located on the same block or across the street from the site.  The noise
levels created on the site should not increase the ambient noise level on
adjoining or abutting properties after completion of the project.  Public
telephones on the site should be located to discourage loitering. 
Sufficient off-street parking should be provided to preclude the need for
utilization of on-street parking by the use allowed on the site.  The
proposed use should be designed in a manner that will minimize the generation
of loitering of individuals on or adjacent to the site.  City streets should
meet City standards in order to ensure safe vehicular ingress and egress to
the site and to ensure that traffic does not exceed the current level of
service.  Ingress and egress to the main buildings or uses on the site are
sufficient to accommodate expected usage by the public and/or occupants of
the facility.  Access to and from the site should be sufficient to meet
police and fire safety needs beyond the explicit requirements of City codes
as determined by the Police, Fire and Building and Safety Departments. 
Lighting on the site should not reflect on adjoining residential uses. 
Walls, fences, or other visible security devices should be similar to those
on the adjoining properties.  Graffiti should be prevented and eliminated
when it is found on the site.



 



   4.   Mobile home parks where any trailer or mobile home is permitted
to remain longer than one day, and which were lawfully in existence on
December 6, 1986.



 



   (a)   Performance Standards:



 



   (1)   No buildings are higher than any main building on adjoining
property or across a street or alley from the use.



 



   (2)   The use is conducted in conformance with the City’s noise
regulations pursuant to Chapter 11 of this Code.



 



   (3)   There is a solid, decorative, masonry or wrought iron
wall/fence at least eight feet in height, or the maximum height permitted by
the zone, whichever is less.  The wall/fence encircles the periphery of the
property and does not extend into the required front yard setback.



 



   (4)   The front yard is at least as deep as the setback required by
the zone.



 



   (5)   The property is improved with a ten foot landscaped buffer
along the periphery of the property, which is maintained and is equipped with
an automatic irrigation system.



 



   (6)   Parking areas are landscaped pursuant to the requirements of
Section 12.21 A.6.



 



   (7)   All graffiti on the site is removed or painted over in the
same color as the surface to which it is applied within 24 hours of its
occurrence.



 



   (8)   Only one identification sign is displayed on the site and it
is on the building face.  The sign does not exceed 20 square feet, and does
not extend more than two feet beyond the wall of the building, and does not
project above the roof ridge or parapet wall (whichever is higher) of the
building.



 



   (9)   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.) The use meets
the parking requirements of Section 12.21 A;



 



   (10)   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.) All streets,
alleys or sidewalks adjoining the property meet standard street dimensions;



 



   (11)   (Added by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.) There are no
outdoor public telephones on the site; and



 



   (12)   (Added by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.) Security night
lighting is shielded so that the light source cannot be seen from adjacent
residential properties.



 



   (b)   Purposes:  The purposes of these Performance Standards are to
provide for landscaping, open space, scale, bulk, height, yards and
setbacks,  particularly with regard to the main buildings, which are similar
to those in the adjacent properties in the neighborhood.  Signage, where
permitted by City regulations, should not exceed in size or number those
located on the same block or across the street from the site.  The noise
levels created on the site should not increase the ambient noise level so as
to disturb persons on adjoining or abutting properties after completion of
the project.  Public telephones on the site should be located to discourage
loitering.  Sufficient off-street parking should be provided to preclude the
need for utilization of on-street parking by the use allowed on the site. 
The proposed use should be designed in a manner that will minimize the
generation of loitering of individuals on or adjacent to the site.  City
streets should meet City standards in order to ensure safe vehicular ingress
and egress to the site and to ensure that traffic does not exceed the current
existing level of service.  Ingress and egress to the main buildings or uses
on the site are sufficient to accommodate expected usage by the public and/or
occupants of the facility.  Access to and from the site should be sufficient
to meet police and fire safety needs beyond the explicit requirements of City
codes as determined by the Police, Fire and Building and Safety
Departments.  Lighting on the site should not reflect on adjoining
residential uses.  Walls, fences, or other visible security devices should
be similar to those on the adjoining properties.  Graffiti should be
prevented and eliminated when it is found on the site.



 



   5.   Parks, playgrounds, or recreational or community centers in the
A, R or C1 Zones.



 



   (a)   Performance Standards:



 



   (1)   The outdoor play/recreational area is at least 100 feet away
from any A or R zones or residential use;



 



   (2)   There are no outdoor public telephones on the site;



 



   (3)   There is no public address system or amplified sound on the
site;



 



   (4)   The use is conducted in conformance with the City’s noise
regulations set forth in Chapter 11 of this Code;



 



   (5)   The hours of operation are restricted to between 7 a.m.  and
10 p.m. of every day;



 



   (6)   There is no outdoor activity from dusk to dawn;



 



   (7)   No buildings are higher than any main building on adjoining
property or across the street or alley from the use;



 



   (8)   The property is improved with a ten foot landscaped buffer
along the periphery of the property, which is maintained and is equipped with
an automatic irrigation system;



 



   (9)   Only one identification sign is displayed on the site and it
is on the building face.  The sign does not exceed 20 square feet, does not
extent more than two feet beyond the wall of the building, and does not
project above the roof ridge or parapet wall (whichever is higher) of the
building;



 



   (10)   Parking areas are landscaped pursuant to the requirements of
Section 12.21A6;



 



   (11)   The use meets the parking requirements of Section 12.21A;



 



   (12)   The site is a corner site;



 



   (13)   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.) The majority of
the frontage is on a major or secondary highway;



 



   (14)   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.) All streets,
alleys or sidewalks adjoining the property meet standard street dimensions;



 



   (15)   (Added by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.) Security night
lighting is shielded so that the light source cannot be seen from adjacent
residential properties; and



 



   (16)   (Added by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.) All graffiti on
the site is removed or painted over in the same color as the surface to which
it is applied within 24 hours of its occurrence.



 



   (b)   Purposes:  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.) The
purposes of these Performance Standards are to provide for landscaping, open
space, scale, bulk,  height, yards and setbacks,  particularly with respect
to the main buildings, which are similar to those in other properties in the
neighborhood.  Signage, where permitted by City regulations, should not
exceed in size or number those located on the same block or across the street
from the site.  The noise levels created on the site should not increase the
ambient noise level on adjoining or abutting properties after completion of
the project.  When adjacent to residential uses, the site should not be used
at times or in a manner that would be disturbing to neighbors.  Public
telephones should not be located in places where they would encourage
loitering.  Sufficient off-street parking should be provided to preclude the
need for utilization of on-street parking by the use allowed on the site.



 



   The proposed use should be designed so that loitering of individuals on
or adjacent to the site will not be generated by the use. City streets should
meet City standards in order to ensure safe vehicular ingress and egress to
the site and to ensure that traffic does not exceed the current level of
service.  Ingress and egress to the main building(s) or uses on the site
should be sufficient to accommodate expected usage by the public and/or
occupants of the facility.  Access to and from the site should be sufficient
to meet police and fire safety needs beyond the explicit requirements of City
codes as determined by the Police, Fire and Building and Safety
Departments.  Lighting on the site should be located so that it does not
reflect on adjoining residential uses.  Graffiti should be prevented or
eliminated when it is found on the site.



 



   6.   Public utilities and public services uses and structures,
except wireless telecommunication facilities and radio or television
transmitters in the A, R, C or MR Zones.



 



   (a)   Performance Standards:



 



   (1)   Security night lighting is shielded so that the light source
cannot be seen from adjacent residential properties;



 



   (2)   The use is conducted in conformance with the City’s noise
regulations pursuant to Chapter 11 of this Code;



 



   (3)   There are no outdoor public telephones on the site;



 



   (4)   No buildings are higher than any building on adjoining
property;



 



   (5)   No guard dogs are used to patrol at night;



 



   (6)   There is no use of barbed, razor or concertina wire;



 



   (7)   Security lighting is provided in parking areas;



 



   (8)   The property is improved with a ten foot landscaped buffer
along the periphery of the property which is maintained and is equipped with
an automatic irrigation system;



 



   (9)   Parking areas are landscaped pursuant to the requirements of
Section 12.21A6;



 



   (10)   Only one identification sign is displayed on the site and it
is on the building face.  The sign does not exceed 20 square feet, and does
not extend more than two feet beyond the wall of the building, and does not
project above the roof ridge or parapet wall (whichever is higher) of the
building;



 



   (11)   All graffiti on the site is removed or painted over in the
same color as the surface to which it is applied within 24 hours of its
occurrence;



 



   (12)   The use meets the parking requirements of Section 12.21A;



 



   (13)   The site is a corner site;



 



   (14)   Yards, at a minimum, should meet Code requirements or those
prevalent on adjoining properties, whichever is the most restrictive;



 



   (15)   The majority of the frontage is on a major or secondary
highway; and



 



   (16)   All streets, alleys or sidewalks adjoining the property meet
standard street dimensions.



 



   (b)   Purposes:  The purposes of these Performance Standards are to
provide for landscaping, open space, scale, bulk,  height, yards and
setbacks,  particularly with regard to the main buildings, which are similar
to those in the adjacent properties in the neighborhood.  Signage, where
permitted by City regulations, should not exceed in size or number of those
located on the same block or across the street from the site.  The noise
levels created on the site should not increase the ambient noise level on
adjoining or abutting properties after completion of the project.  Public
telephones on the site should be located to discourage loitering. 
Sufficient off-street parking should be provided to preclude the need for
utilization of on-street parking by the use allowed on the site.  The
proposed use should be designed in a manner that will minimize the generation
of loitering of individuals on or adjacent to the site.  City streets should
meet City standards in order to ensure safe vehicular ingress and egress to
the site and to ensure that traffic does not exceed the current level of
service.  Ingress and egress to the main buildings or uses on the site are
sufficient to accommodate expected usage by the public and/or occupants of
the facility.  Access to and from the site should be sufficient to meet
police and fire safety needs beyond the explicit requirements of City codes
as determined by the Police, Fire and Building and Safety Departments. 
Lighting on the site should not reflect on adjoining residential uses. 
Walls, fences, or other visible security devices should be similar to those
on the adjoining properties.  Graffiti should be prevented and eliminated
when it is found on the site.



 



   7.   Recreational vehicle parks and mobile home parks in the A, R or
C Zones where any trailer, mobile home or recreational vehicle is permitted
to remain longer than one day and which were lawfully created after the
effective date of the ordinance adding this use to the Code.



 



   (a)   Performance Standards:



 



   (1)   No buildings are higher than any main building on adjoining
property or across a street or alley from the use;



 



   (2)   The use is conducted in conformance with the City’s noise
regulations pursuant to Chapter 11 of this Code;



 



   (3)   There is a solid decorative masonry or wrought iron wall/fence
at least eight feet in height, or the maximum height permitted by the zone,
whichever is less.  The wall/fence encircles the periphery of the property
and does not extend into the required front yard setback;



 



   (4)   The front yard setback is at least as deep as the setback
required by the zone;



 



   (5)   The property is improved with a ten foot landscaped buffer
along the periphery of the property, which is maintained and is equipped with
an automatic irrigation system;



 



   (6)   Parking areas are landscaped pursuant to the requirements of
Section 12.21A6;



 



   (7)   Only one identification sign is displayed on the site and it
is on the building face.  The sign does not exceed 20 square feet, and does
not extend more than 2 feet beyond the wall of the building, and does not
project above the roof ridge or parapet wall (whichever is higher) of the
building;



 



   (8)   All graffiti on the site is removed or painted over in the
same color as the surface to which it is applied within 24 hours of its
occurrence;



 



   (9)   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.) The use meets
the parking requirements of Section 12.21 A;



 



   (10)   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.) All streets,
alleys or sidewalks adjoining the property meet standard street dimensions;



 



   (11)   (Added by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.) There are no
outdoor public telephones on the site; and



 



   (12)   (Added by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.) Security night
lighting is shielded so that the light source cannot be seen from adjacent
residential properties.



 



   (b)   Purposes:  The purposes of these Performance Standards are to
provide for landscaping, open space, scale, bulk, height, yards and
setbacks,  particularly with regard to the main buildings, which are similar
to those in the adjacent properties in the neighborhood.  Signage, where
permitted by City regulations, should not exceed in size or number those
located on the same block or across the street from the site.  The noise
levels created on the site should not increase the ambient noise level so as
to be disturbing to persons on adjoining or abutting properties after
completion of the project.  Public telephones on the site should be located
to discourage loitering.  Sufficient off-street parking should be provided
to preclude the need for utilization of on-street parking by the use allowed
on the site.  The proposed use should be designed in a manner that will
minimize the generation of loitering of individuals on or adjacent to the
site.  City streets should meet City standards in order to ensure safe
vehicular ingress and egress to the site and to ensure that traffic does not
exceed the existing level of service.  Ingress and egress to the main
buildings or uses on the site are sufficient to accommodate expected usage by
the public and/or occupants of the facility.  Access to and from the site
should be sufficient to meet police and fire safety needs beyond the explicit
requirements of City codes as determined by the Police, Fire and Building and
Safety Departments.  Lighting on the site should not reflect on adjoining
residential uses.  Walls, fences, or other visible security devices should
be similar to those on the adjoining properties.  Graffiti should be
prevented and eliminated when it is found on the site.



 



   8.   Shelters for the homeless (as defined in Section 12.03)
containing not more than 30 beds are permitted by right in the R3, M1, M2 and
M3 Zones with reduced parking requirements.



 



   (a)   Performance Standards:



 



   (1)   There no other shelters for the homeless within 300 feet of
the subject property;



 



   (2)   The use is conducted in conformance with the City’s noise
regulations pursuant to Chapter 11 of this Code;



 



   (3)   There are no outdoor public telephones on the site;



 



   (4)   No signs are present on the property relating to its use as a
shelter for the homeless;



 



   (5)   No outdoor toilets are present on the site;



 



   (6)   All graffiti on the site is removed or painted over in the
same color as the surface to which it is applied within 24 hours of its
occurrence;



 



   (7)   At least ten percent of the number of parking spaces otherwise
required by Section 12.21A4 are provided, and in no event are fewer than two
spaces provided; and



 



   (8)   All streets, alleys or sidewalks adjoining the property meet
standard street dimensions.



 



   (b)   Purposes:  Shelters should be separated from one another a
sufficient distance to avoid too many in one neighborhood.  Noise levels
created on the site should not increase the ambient noise level on adjoining
or abutting properties after completion of the project.  In order to avoid
attracting persons hostile to the occupants, the site should be designed to
remain anonymous.  Sufficient off-street parking should be provided so as to
preclude the need for utilization of on-street parking by the use allowed on
the site.  The proposed use should be designed so that loitering of
individuals on or adjacent to the site will not be generated by the use. 
City streets should meet City standards in order to ensure safe vehicular
ingress and egress to the site and to ensure that traffic does not exceed the
current level of service.  Public telephones should be located so as to
avoid loitering.  Measures should be taken to protect public health by
preventing and eliminating graffiti when it is found on the site.



 



   9.   The installation and maintenance of trailers for use as
temporary accommodations for homeless persons.  The term “temporary
accommodations” shall have the same meaning that it has in the definition
of “shelter for the homeless” in Section 12.03.  The height and area
regulations contained in other provisions of this chapter shall not apply to
trailers permitted pursuant to this subdivision.  Parking spaces otherwise
required by this Code for the trailers permitted pursuant to this subdivision
shall not be required.



 



   (a)   Performance Standards:



 



   (1)   The installation and maintenance of no more than six trailers
for use as temporary accommodations for homeless persons is carried out and
maintained by a religious or philanthropic institution on the site of the
institution; or by a government unit, agency or authority on each individual
property owned by the government unit, agency or authority;



 



   (2)   There are no shelters for the homeless within 300 feet of the
public property;



 



   (3)   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,374, Eff. 8/3/00.) There is a solid,
decorative, masonry or wrought iron wall or fence at least eight feet in
height, or the maximum height permitted by the zone, whichever is less.  The
wall or fence encircles the periphery of the property and does not extend
into the required front yard setback;



 



   (4)   The use is conducted in conformance with the City’s noise
regulations pursuant to Chapter 11 of this Code;



 



   (5)   No signs are present on the property relating to its use as a
shelter for the homeless;



 



   (6)   No outdoor toilets are present on the site;



 



   (7)   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.) All graffiti on
the site is removed or painted over in the same color as the surface to which
it is applied within 24 hours of its occurrence;



 



   (8)   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.) All streets,
alleys or sidewalks adjoining the property meet standard street dimensions;
and



 



   (9)   (Added by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.) The use shall not
be within 500 ft. of a residential zone or use.



 



   (b)   Purposes:  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)
Shelters should be separated from one another a sufficient distance to avoid
too many in one neighborhood.  Noise levels created on the site should not
increase the ambient noise level on adjoining or abutting properties after
completion of the project.  In order to maintain appropriate quality of the
neighborhood and safety to occupants, the site should be designed to remain
anonymous.  The proposed use should be designed so that loitering of
individuals on or adjacent to the site will not be generated by the use. 
City streets should meet City standards in order to ensure safe vehicular
ingress and egress to the site and to ensure that traffic does not exceed the
level of service.  Public telephones should be located so as to avoid
loitering.  Graffiti should be prevented and eliminated when it is found on
the site.  The proposed use should protect the integrity of the surrounding
neighborhood.



 



   10.   Existing non-permitted dwelling units where affordable housing
is provided.  (Added by Ord. No. 184,907, Eff. 5/17/17.)



 



   (a)   Purpose.  The purpose of this subdivision is to further
health and safety standards in multifamily buildings and preserve and create
affordable housing units by establishing procedures to legalize certain
pre-existing unpermitted dwelling units in conformance with the State Density
Bonus provisions in California Government Code Section 65915.  The grant of
permitted status to pre-existing unpermitted units under this subdivision
shall not be considered an increase in density or other change which requires
any corresponding zone change, general plan amendment, specific plan
exception or discretionary action.



 



   (b)   Application and Approval.  The applicant shall submit an
application on a form developed by the Department of City Planning that
contains basic information about the project, the owner and/or applicant and
conformance with this section.  The Director of Planning shall review all
applications for compliance with the eligibility criteria in Paragraph (c),
zoning compliance in Paragraph (d) and adherence to the performance standards
in Paragraph (f).  The application shall be approved by the Director of
Planning if the eligibility criteria and performance standards of this
subsection are met.



 



   (c)   Eligibility Criteria.  A structure with an unpermitted
dwelling unit or guest room located in a zone that allows multiple-family
uses (R2 or less restrictive) is eligible for the provisions of this section
when the following criteria are met:



 



   (1)   Pre-Existing Unit.  The unit(s) to be legalized have been
occupied as a residential unit at any time between December 11, 2010, and
December 10, 2015.  Examples of the types of evidence to establish occupancy
include, but are not limited to:  an apartment lease; utility bill; Rent
Stabilization Ordinance (RSO) Rent Registration Certificate; code enforcement
case documentation (e.g., Orders to Comply); or other evidence identified on
the application form and made available for public inspection in the case
file.



 



   (2)   Restricted Affordable Units.  At least one additional
Restricted Affordable Unit is being provided on the project site.  A
Restricted Affordable Unit is defined for this section as a residential unit
for which rental or mortgage amounts are restricted so as to be affordable to
and occupied by Very Low, Low or Moderate Income households, as those income
ranges are defined by the California Department of Housing and Community
Development (HCD) or any successor agency.  Affordable means that rents or
housing expenses cannot exceed 30 percent of the maximum gross income of each
respective household income group.  Moderate Income units may be utilized,
provided the project is not located in a Low-Moderate Census Tract pursuant
to the Community Reinvestment Act.  A covenant acceptable to the Housing and
Community Investment Department shall be recorded with the Los Angeles County
Recorder, guaranteeing that each required Restricted Affordable Unit shall be
reserved and maintained for at least 55 years from the issuance of the
Certificate of Occupancy.



 



   (d)   Zoning Compliance.  A property meeting the eligibility
criteria above must comply with all applicable zoning codes, except:



 



   (1)   The number of allowable dwelling units or guest rooms can be
increased up to 35 percent over the otherwise maximum allowable residential
density under any applicable zoning ordinance and/or specific plan, depending
on the percentage of Restricted Affordable Units provided in the building,
pursuant to the density bonus charts in California Government Code Section
65915(f).  These charts can be extended proportionally to permit both a
density increase and an affordable set-aside less than what is shown on the
charts.



 



   (2)   For properties which have more permitted units than are
allowed under current maximum allowable residential density, an increase in
current maximum allowable density beyond 35 percent may be authorized as long
as the project offers sufficient Restricted Affordable Units to achieve at
least a 35 percent density bonus pursuant to the density bonus charts in
California Government Code Section 65915(f) and the increase in number of
units does not exceed 35 percent of the number of permitted units on the
property.  Notwithstanding the actual number of permitted units on the
property, the base number of units for calculating the percentage of
Restricted Affordable Units shall be the units allowed by the current maximum
residential density.



 



   (3)   A property containing one structure with two permitted
dwelling units in a zone that allows multiple-family uses may legalize a
third unit as long as one of the units is a Restricted Affordable Unit, even
if the third unit increases the density by more than 35 percent.



 



   (4)   An applicant may choose any one of the following methods of
calculating required parking, if applicable, in conjunction with the bicycle
parking provisions in LAMC Section 12.21 A.4.:



 



   (i)   Parking may be recalculated for all units in the project (not
just the restricted units) using Parking Option 1 in LAMC Section 12.22
A.25.(d);



 



   (ii)   Parking may be calculated by maintaining all existing parking
and providing additional parking just for the newly legalized unit(s) in
accordance with Parking Option 2 in LAMC Section 12.22 A.25.(d) as long as
one Restricted Affordable Unit or dwelling unit for Low Income individuals
who are 62 years of age or more, or who has a physical or mental impairment
that limits one or more major life activities is provided for each legalized
unit; or



 



   (iii)   Parking may be calculated by maintaining all existing
parking and providing additional parking at a ratio of 0.5 parking spaces per
bedroom for the newly legalized units for a project located within one half
mile of a Major Transit Stop, which is a site containing an existing rail
transit station, a ferry terminal served by either a bus or rail transit
service, or the intersection of two or more major bus routes with a frequency
of service interval of 15 minutes or less during the morning and afternoon
peak commute period or a major transit stop included in the applicable
Regional Transportation Plan/ Sustainable Community Strategy (RTP/STS).



 



   If the net new number of required parking spaces is other than a whole
number, it shall be rounded up to the next whole number.



 



   (5)   The passageway provisions of LAMC Sections 12.21 C.2.(b)
through (e) shall not apply to projects meeting the requirements of this
section.



 



   (6)   The applicant shall be eligible for up to three concessions or
incentives in accordance with Government Code Section 65915(d)(2), depending
on the percentage of Restricted Affordable Units provided.  For the purposes
of this subdivision, a concession or incentive means a reduction in a site
development standard or a modification of zoning code requirements or
architectural design requirements that exceed the minimum building standards
approved by the California Building Standards Commission, including, but not
limited to, a reduction in open space requirements and in the ratio of
vehicular parking spaces that would otherwise be required.



 



   (7)   The City may not apply a development standard that will
physically preclude the legalization of a project which meets the eligibility
criteria of Paragraph (c) at the densities or with the concessions or
incentives permitted by this section.  Development standards, include, but
are not limited to:  a site condition; a height limitation; a setback
requirement; a floor area ratio; an onsite open-space requirement; or a
parking ratio that applies to a residential development pursuant to any
ordinance, general plan element, specific plan, charter, or other local
condition, law, policy, resolution, or regulation.  Development standards do
not include conditions imposed through discretionary approvals.  Incentives
shall not be used to exempt compliance with performance standards.



 



   (8)   The street dedication provisions of LAMC Section 12.37 shall
not apply when units are legalized under this subdivision.



 



   (e)   Relationship to the Affordable Housing Incentive Guidelines. 
The City's Affordable Housing Incentive Guidelines shall not apply to
projects under this subsection.



 



   (f)   Performance Standards.  The property shall meet the following
performance standards:



 



   (1)   Front Yard Landscaping.  All portions of the required front
yard not used for necessary driveways and walkways, including decorative
walkways, are landscaped and maintained, and not otherwise paved;



 



   (2)   Lighting.  Security night lighting is shielded so that the
light source cannot be seen from adjacent residential properties;



 



   (3)   Parking Area.  Any surface parking areas are landscaped
pursuant to the requirements of LAMC Section 12.21 A.6.(i);



 



   (4)   Signage.  Any illegal signage shall have been removed;



 



   (5)   Code Violations.  The project site must not have any
outstanding code violations other than those being addressed by the
application under this section; and



 



   (6)   Unpermitted Building Area Expansion.  The units to be
legalized shall not result or have resulted in an unpermitted expansion of
the building footprint or height, except that additions of less than 250
square feet, not resulting in any additional height, may be permitted,
provided it is not located on the building frontage adjoining the front
yard.  The purpose of this standard is to limit exterior alterations to
those that are minor and do not have a significant impact on the visual
character of the building or neighborhood.



 



   (g)   Alternative Compliance.  If compliance with the Performance
Standards is not met, the applicant may apply for approval of alternative
compliance measures pursuant to the procedures in Subsection B. of this
section, except that appeals are to the Area Planning Commission.  The
eligibility criteria in Paragraph (c) and the zoning compliance standards in
Paragraph (d) must be met in order to qualify for an alternative compliance
review.



 



   11.   Certified Farmers' Markets, as defined in Section 1392.2,
Title 3, of the California Code of Regulations as that section may be amended
from time to time, are permitted by right in the A, C, M and P Zones and
subject to the following Performance Standards:  (Added by Ord. No. 185,514,
Eff. 6/4/18.)



 



   (a)   Performance Standards:



 



   (1)   All market activities shall be conducted only between the
hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m., except that necessary preparation of the
site for sales activities and cleanup may be conducted for not more than one
hour before and one hour after this period.  No Certified Farmers' Market
may operate more than twice in the same week;



 



   (2)   Any light used during market activities shall be shielded so
as not to shine directly or indirectly on adjacent property or streets;



 



   (3)   The operator of a Certified Farmers' Market shall provide
trash containers during the hours of operation;



 



   (4)   Signs advertising the market shall conform to Article 4.4 of
this Code;



 



   (5)   The noise level of any activity related to a Certified
Farmers' Market abutting an A or R zone shall not exceed the ambient noise
levels applicable to an A or R zone as set forth in Section 111.03 of the
Municipal Code, and as measured at the property line of any adjacent A or R
zone.  The noise level from any Certified Farmers' Market includes noise
resulting from the use of amplified sound equipment;



 



   (6)   Any portion of the lot used for market activities shall be
cleaned at the close of hours of operation.  For purposes of this section
only, "cleaned" shall include, but not be limited to, the removal of stalls,
materials, debris and trash, etc., used in conjunction with market activities;



 



   (7)   The operator of a Certified Farmers' Market shall maintain a
list of vendors participating in the Certified Farmers' Market during the day
of operation;



 



   (8)   Certification of the Certified Farmers' Market and contact
information for the operator shall be posted at the main entry, and provided
as part of the application.  The contact person shall be available during
the hours of operation and shall respond to any complaints.  The operator
shall keep a log of complaints received, the date and time received, and
their disposition;



 



   (9)   When located on a parking lot, the Certified Farmers' Market
shall not use more than 80 percent of the provided parking spaces.  Safety
barricades that protect vendors and their customers from vehicles shall be
used to separate the market and the remaining parking area; and



 



   (10)   Electronic Benefit Transfer (EBT) Card payments shall be
accepted at the Certified Farmers' Market.  A Food and Nutrition Service
(FNS) Number issued by the United States Department of Agriculture shall be
provided on the application as proof of EBT card acceptance.



 



   (b)   Purpose.  Farmers' markets increase communities' access to
fresh and healthy produce.  The purpose of these Performance Standards is to
minimize any impacts on the surrounding neighborhood that may result from the
operation of a farmers' market, such as noise, light, trash or parking. 
Additional permits may be required by other City departments.



 



   12.   Interim Use of Motels for Supportive Housing or Transitional
Housing.  (Added by Ord. No. 185,489, Eff. 4/20/18.)  The purpose of this
subdivision is to facilitate the interim use of existing transient
residential structures, such as motels, Hotels, Apartment Hotels, Transient
Occupancy Residential Structures and Hostels as Supportive Housing or
Transitional Housing for persons experiencing homelessness or those at risk
of homelessness.  Under this subdivision, the structure may return to its
previous use, or any use consistent with the underlying zoning, upon
termination of the interim Supportive Housing or Transitional Housing use.



 



   (a)   Interim Motel Housing Project.  An Interim Motel Housing
Project is the physical re-purposing or adaptation of an existing transient
residential structure, such as a motel, Hotel, Apartment Hotel, Transient
Occupancy Residential Structure, or Hostel, for use as Supportive Housing or
Transitional Housing for persons experiencing homelessness or those at risk
of homelessness.  The Local Public Agency determines who qualifies as
experiencing homelessness or is at risk of homelessness.  For purposes of
this subdivision only, Local Public Agency is defined as an agency,
identified on a list maintained by the Department of City Planning, that
funds Supportive Housing and Transitional Housing for persons experiencing
homelessness or at risk of homelessness.  All Dwelling Units and Guest Rooms
in the structure must be used for Supportive Housing or Transitional Housing
or a combination of both.  The Interim Motel Housing Project must not
increase or add Floor Area or expand the building footprint or height, nor
shall it increase the total combined number of Dwelling Units or Guests
Rooms.  Any Floor Area used for onsite Supportive Services shall be
considered accessory to the residential use.



 



   (b)   Application and Approval.



 



   (1)   The Department of Building and Safety shall review all Interim
Motel Housing Projects for zoning compliance described in Paragraph (d) and
adherence to the performance standards in Paragraph (e).  The Interim Motel
Housing Project shall be approved if the application requirements, zoning
compliance and performance standards of this subsection are met through the
approval process, including but not limited to payment of fees, set forth in
Chapter IX of the LAMC.  Interim Motel Housing Projects shall not be
considered an increase in density or other change which requires any
corresponding discretionary action.



 



   (2)   Prior to issuance of a building permit, the applicant shall
provide a copy of an executed contract agreement between the Local Public
Agency, the provider of the Supportive or Transitional Housing, and the
Interim Motel Housing Project applicant for the provision of onsite
Supportive Housing or Transitional Housing, or a combination of both; proof
that the applicant has received funding from a Local Public Agency; and proof
that the Supportive Housing or Transitional Housing contract is in effect.



 



   (3)   If structures or units are subject to the provisions of LAMC
Section 47.70 et seq. (Residential Hotel Ordinance) on the date of the
Interim Motel Housing Project application, they shall remain subject to all
requirements and restrictions in Section 47.70 et seq. during the Supportive
Housing or Transitional Housing contract.  Interim Motel Housing Project
applicants seeking to convert structures subject to the Residential Hotel
Ordinance shall also submit an Application for Clearance using the process
described in LAMC Section 47.78.  At the conclusion of the Supportive
Housing or Transitional Housing contract, the number of Residential Units, as
defined in LAMC Section 47.73 T., at each participating structure shall be
identical to the number of units originally determined by the Housing and
Community Investment Department to be Residential Units pursuant to LAMC
Section 47.76 or any subsequent number approved as part of an Application for
Clearance.



 



   (c)   Termination of Supportive Housing or Transitional Housing
Contract.  Upon any termination of the Supportive Housing or Transitional
Housing contract, the Interim Motel Housing Project applicant shall be
required, within 90 days, to notify the Department of Building and Safety and
to complete one of the following:



 



   (1)   Submit an application to the Department of Building and Safety
to return to the use, authorized by a Certificate of Occupancy, existing on
the date of the Interim Motel Housing Project application, or to any use
permitted by the current zoning regulations; or



 



   (2)   Provide a copy of a new executed contract agreement to the
Department of Building and Safety in accordance with the requirements in
Paragraph (b)(2) to begin a new contract term for provision of Supportive
Housing or Transitional Housing.



 



   (d)   Zoning Compliance.



 



   (1)   Interim Motel Housing Projects shall not be subject to any
otherwise applicable zoning ordinance, specific plan, or other overlay
district regulations, including, but not limited to, the following:



 



   (i)   Minimum Area per Dwelling Unit or Guest Room.  A structure,
regardless of any nonconforming status as to the area and density regulations
of the underlying zone, may be used for an Interim Motel Housing Project,
provided that the structure has a Certificate of Occupancy as a motel, Hotel,
Apartment Hotel, Transient Occupancy Residential Structure, or Hostel, and
the conversion does not create any additional total combined number of
Dwelling Units or Guest Rooms.



 



   (ii)   Off-Street Automobile Parking.  Interim Motel Housing
Projects shall be exempt from the provisions of LAMC Section 12.21 A.4.(m). 
During the Supportive Housing or Transitional Housing contract, however, the
Interim Motel Housing Project shall maintain and not reduce the number of
onsite parking spaces existing on the date of the Interim Motel Housing
Project application.



 



   (iii)   Use.  Notwithstanding the use provisions of the underlying
zoning, an Interim Motel Housing Project shall be permitted.



 



   (iv)   Change of Use.  Section 12.23 B.7. of this Code shall not
apply to Interim Motel Housing Projects.



 



   (v)   Nonconforming Use of Buildings in Manufacturing Zones. 
Notwithstanding the regulations contained in Section 12.23 B.4. of this Code,
an Interim Motel Housing Project shall be permitted in M Zones.



 



   (2)   Minor Interior Alterations for Cooking Facilities.  Approved
Interim Motel Housing Project applicants may make minor interior alterations
adding cooking facilities, including a sink, a refrigerator not exceeding 10
cubic feet, counter space not exceeding 10 square feet, and a hotplate or
microwave, to Guest Rooms.  In the event a structure is returned to the
motel or hotel use in accordance with Paragraph (c)(1), the motel or hotel
may maintain any Guest Rooms with added cooking facilities.



 



   (3)   Preservation of Nonconforming Rights.  Upon termination of
the Supportive Housing or Transitional Housing use, any structure that is
nonconforming as to area or use regulations or any other zoning code
requirements may return to the use and condition, authorized by a Certificate
of Occupancy, existing on the date of the Interim Motel Housing Project
application, notwithstanding any physical alterations to the subject
property.  Any Floor Area used for Supportive Services may be returned to
use as Guest Rooms or Dwelling Units, or may be converted to accessory
amenity spaces, so long as the total number of Dwelling Units or Guest Rooms
do not exceed the number approved on the Certificate of Occupancy existing at
the time of the application for Interim Motel Housing Project.



 



   (e)   Performance Standards.  The Interim Motel Housing Project
shall meet the following performance standards:



 



   (1)   Supportive Service Area.  For every 20 Dwelling Units or
Guest Rooms, a minimum of one dedicated office space shall be provided for
the provision of on-site Supportive Services, including case management.  A
minimum of one dedicated office space shall be provided for Interim Motel
Housing Projects with fewer than 20 total combined Dwelling Units or Guest
Rooms.  Any Floor Area dedicated to Supportive Services may be provided
on-site within an existing building, but shall not exceed 10% of the total
Floor Area of the building.



 



   (2)   Lighting.  Security night lighting shall be shielded so that
the light source cannot be seen from adjacent residential properties.



 



   (3)   Security Lighting.  Security lighting with illumination of
not less than 0.2 footcandles (2.15 lx) shall be provided in parking areas,
alleys and any unenclosed spaces under or within the first floor of the
building(s).



 



   (4)   Recycling and Trash Facilities.  Any recycling and trash
facilities shall be secured and completely enclosed by a solid wall or fence
not less than six feet in height.



 



   (5)   Historic Building.  An Interim Motel Housing Project shall
not involve alteration of an historic character defining feature identified
in a nomination or a survey for any project affecting a property listed in or
formally determined eligible for a national, state or local historic
register, individually or as a contributor to a historic district, unless the
Director in consultation with the Office of Historic Resources determines the
proposed alteration will not adversely impact the property's historic
eligibility.



 



   (f)   Alternative Compliance.  If compliance with the Performance
Standards is not met, the applicant may apply for approval of alternative
compliance measures pursuant to the procedures in Subsection B. of this
section.  The requirements in Paragraphs (a) and (b), above, must be met in
order to qualify for an alternative compliance review.  In approving the
alternative compliance application, the Director shall find that the Interim
Motel Housing Project substantially meets the purposes of the Performance
Standards, including that it provides an appropriate level of Supportive
Services that is accessible to the residents of the Supportive Housing or
Transitional Housing.



 



   13.   Density Bonus for Qualified Permanent Supportive Housing. 
(Added by Ord. No. 185,492, Eff. 5/28/18.)  This subdivision is intended to
facilitate construction or maintenance of Supportive Housing units pursuant
to a ministerial approval process in conformance with the State density bonus
provisions in California Government Code Section 65915.  The grant of any
bonuses, incentives, or concessions under this subdivision shall not be
considered an increase in density or other change which requires any
corresponding zone change, general plan amendment, specific plan exception or
discretionary action.



 



   (a)   Definitions.  Notwithstanding any provision of this Code to
the contrary, the following definitions shall apply to this subdivision:



 



   (1)   Qualified Permanent Supportive Housing Project.  The
construction of, addition to, or remodeling of a building or buildings
offering Supportive Housing; located in a zone that allows multiple dwellings
(RD1.5 or less restrictive); and where all of the total combined Dwelling
Units or Guest Rooms, exclusive of any manager's units, are affordable.  For
the purposes of this subdivision, affordable means that rents or housing
costs to the occupying residents do not exceed 30 percent of the maximum
gross income of Extremely Low, Very Low or Low Income households, as those
income ranges are defined by the United States Department of Housing and
Urban Development (HUD) or any successor agency, as verified by the Housing &
Community Investment Department (HCIDLA).  A minimum of 50 percent of the
total combined Dwelling Units or Guest Rooms is occupied by the Target
Population.



 



   (2)   Target Population.  Persons with qualifying lower incomes who:



 



   (i)   Have one or more disabilities, including mental illness, HIV
or AIDS, substance abuse, or other chronic health condition, and are homeless
as defined by any Los Angeles City, Los Angeles County, State of California,
or Federal guidelines; or



 



   (ii)   Are chronically homeless, as defined by any Los Angeles City,
Los Angeles County, State of California, or Federal guidelines.



 



   (3)   Local Public Agency.  A local public agency identified on a
list maintained by the Department of City Planning that funds Supportive
Services, keeps a prequalified list of service providers, or both.



 



   (b)   Application and Approval.  The applicant shall submit an
application on a form developed by the Department of City Planning that
contains information about the project, the applicant and conformance with
this section.  All applications shall be reviewed for compliance with the
definitions in Paragraph (a), requirements in Paragraph (c), zoning
compliance in Paragraph (d), and adherence to the performance standards in
Paragraph (g).  The application shall be approved by the Department of City
Planning if the eligibility criteria of this Subdivision are met.



 



   (1)   Other Affordable Housing Incentive Programs.  Except as
described in Paragraph (f), applicants for other affordable housing incentive
programs, including, but not limited to, the Floor Area Bonus for the Greater
Downtown Housing Incentive Area in Section 12.22 A.29.; the Density Bonus
provisions in Section 12.22 A.25.; the Transit Oriented Communities
Affordable Housing Incentive Program in Section 12.22 A.31.; or affordable
housing incentive provisions in community plan implementation overlays
(CIPOs), shall not also be eligible for a Qualified Permanent Supportive
Housing Project approval  at the same location.



 



   (c)   Requirements.  A Qualified Permanent Supportive Housing
Project must comply with the following requirements:



 



   (1)   Supportive Services.  Applicants shall provide documentation
describing the Supportive Services that will be provided onsite and
offsite.  Prior to any approval of a Qualified Permanent Supportive Housing
Project, the applicant shall submit information demonstrating that Supportive
Services will be provided to residents of the project.  The applicant shall
indicate the name of the entity or entities that will provide the Supportive
Services, the Local Public Agency funding source(s) for those services, and
proposed staffing levels.  If a preliminary funding commitment is needed,
the applicant shall also submit a signed letter of intent from the Local
Public Agency verifying that it is providing a preliminary funding commitment
for the Supportive Services.  If no funding commitment is needed, the
applicant shall demonstrate that the entity or entities that will provide the
Supportive Services are service providers prequalified by a Local Public
Agency.



 



   (2)   Affordable Housing Covenant.  Projects shall record a
covenant acceptable to HCIDLA that reserves and maintains the total combined
number of Dwelling Units and Guest Rooms designated as restricted affordable
for at least 55 years from the issuance of the Certificate of Occupancy.



 



   (3)   Housing Replacement.  Projects shall meet any applicable
dwelling unit replacement requirements of California Government Code Section
65915(c)(3), or as thereafter amended, as verified by HCIDLA, and all
applicable covenant and monitoring fees in Section 19.14 of this Code shall
be paid by the applicant prior to the issuance of any building permit.



 



   (4)   Notification of Application.  The following requirements
shall be completed at least 30 days prior to the Department of City
Planning's approval of the Qualified Permanent Supportive Housing Project:



 



   (i)   The Department shall send written notices of the Qualified
Permanent Supportive Housing Project application by U.S. mail to the abutting
property owners, applicable Neighborhood Council and the Council District
Office of the site; and



 



   (ii)   The applicant shall post, in a conspicuous place near the
entrance of the property, a public notice of the Qualified Permanent
Supportive Housing Project application.  The applicant shall submit proof of
posting to the Department, which includes submission of a completed public
notice form provided by the Department and photographs of the posted notice.



 



   (d)   Bonuses and Incentives. A Qualified Permanent Supportive
Housing Project meeting the requirements in Paragraph (c) and the performance
standards in Paragraph (g) is eligible for the following bonuses and
incentives:



 



   (1)   Minimum Lot Area per Dwelling Unit or Guest Room.  In zones
where multiple dwelling uses are permitted (R3 and less restrictive), the
number of allowable Dwelling Units or Guest Rooms shall not be subject to the
otherwise maximum allowable residential density under any applicable zoning
ordinance or specific plan.  In the RD1.5 Zone, the minimum lot area per
Dwelling Unit or Guest Room shall be 500 square feet.  All applicable
standards pertaining to height and floor area under any applicable zoning
ordinance, specific plan or overlay shall apply.



 



   (2)   Automobile Parking Requirements.  The following requirements
shall apply to all Qualified Permanent Supportive Housing Projects.  Up to
40% of the total required parking spaces may be provided by compact stalls.



 



   (i)   No parking spaces shall be required for Dwelling Units or
Guest Rooms restricted to the Target Population.



 



   (ii)   For Qualified Permanent Supportive Housing Projects located
within one-half (1/2) mile of a Transit Stop, as defined in Section 12.22
A.25.(b) or of a Major Transit Stop as defined in Section 21155(b) of the
Public Resources Code, no more than one-half (1/2) parking space shall be
required for each income-restricted Dwelling Unit or Guest Room not occupied
by the Target Population.  Otherwise, no more than one (1) parking space
shall be required for each income-restricted Dwelling Unit or Guest Room not
occupied by the Target Population.



 



   (iii)   One (1) parking space for every 20 Dwelling Units or Guest
Rooms shall be required for the purpose of accommodating guests, supportive
services, and case management.



 



   (iv)   Exception for Projects Located in the Greater Downtown
Housing Incentive Area.  For projects located in the Greater Downtown
Housing Incentive Area, no parking space shall be required for Dwelling Units
or Guest Rooms dedicated or set aside for households that earn less than 50%
of the Area Median Income as determined by HCIDLA.



 



   (3)   Floor Area.  Areas designated exclusively for Supportive
Services use or public areas accessible to all residents, including those for
residential or Supportive Services uses, shall not be considered as floor
area of the building for the purposes of calculating the total allowable
Floor Area.  The Floor Area shall be measured to the center line of wall
partitions between public and non-public areas.



 



   (4)   Continuing Existing Use.  Notwithstanding the use provisions
of the underlying zoning, a Qualified Permanent Supportive Housing Project
developed pursuant to this subdivision shall be permitted when the project is
converted from or is a replacement of a Residential Hotel as defined in
Section 47.70 et seq. of this Code, and is a continuation of an existing
residential use.  The replacement shall comply with the provisions of
Section 47.70 et seq. as approved by HCIDLA.  The total number of Dwelling
Units or Guest Rooms may be increased as part of the conversion or
replacement.  This subparagraph shall not apply to a Residential Hotel
located in a RD2 or more restrictive residential zone.



 



   (5)   Guest Rooms.  For the purposes of this subdivision, a Guest
Room may contain cooking facilities including a sink, refrigerator not
exceeding 10 cubic feet, counter space not exceeding 10 square feet, and a
hotplate or microwave.



 



   (e)   Additional Concessions or Incentives.  The project shall be
eligible for any combination of up to five concessions or incentives
described below, as applicable.  Incentives shall not be used to exempt
compliance with the performance standards described in Paragraph (g) below.



 



   (1)   Yard/Setback.  A Qualified Permanent Supportive Housing
Project may only qualify for this incentive when the landscaping qualifies
for the number of landscape points equivalent to 10% or more than otherwise
required by Section 12.40 E. of this Code and Landscape Ordinance Guidelines
"O".  All adjustments to individual yards or setbacks may be combined to
count as one concession or incentive.



 



   (i)   Up to 20% decrease in the required width or depth of any
individual yard or setback, except along a property line that abuts an R1 or
more restrictively zoned property, in which case no reduction is permitted.



 



   (ii)   In residential zones, however, the resulting front yard
setback may not be less than the average of the front yards, as measured to
the main building, of adjoining lots along the same street Frontage.  If
located on a corner lot or adjacent to a vacant lot, the front yard setback
may align with the facade of the adjacent building along the same front lot
line, and may result in more or less than a 20% decrease in the required
setback.  If there are no adjacent buildings, no reduction is permitted.



 



   (2)   Lot Coverage.  Up to 20% increase in lot coverage limits,
provided that the landscaping for the Qualified Permanent Supportive Housing
Project qualifies for the number of landscape points equivalent to 10% more
than otherwise required by Section 12.40 of this Code and Landscape Ordinance
Guidelines "O".



 



   (3)   Floor Area Ratio.



 



   (i)   Up to 35% increase in the allowable Floor Area Ratio.



 



   (ii)   In the RD1.5 Zone, up to a 20% increase in the allowable
Floor Area Ratio.



 



   (iii)   In lieu of the otherwise applicable Floor Area Ratio, a
Floor Area Ratio not to exceed 3:1, provided the parcel is in a commercial
zone.



 



   (4)   Height.  Up to 35% increase in the maximum allowable height
in feet, applicable over the entire parcel regardless of any of the lower
underlying height limits.  For purposes of this Subparagraph, Section
12.21.1 A.10. of this Code shall not apply.  In its place, the following
transitional height requirements shall be applied:



 



   (i)   In any zone in which the height or number of stories is
limited, this provision shall permit a maximum height increase of one
additional story up to eleven feet.



 



   (ii)   When adjacent to or across an alley from an R2 or more
restrictive zone, the building's transitional height shall be stepped-back
within a 45 degree angle as measured from a point 25 feet above grade at the
property line.



 









 



   (iii)   In the RD1.5 Zone, when adjacent to or across an alley from
an R2 or more restrictive zone, the building's transitional height shall be
stepped-back within a 45 degree angle as measured from a point 20 feet above
grade at the property line.



 









 



   (5)   Open Space.  Up to 20% decrease in the required open space,
provided that the landscaping for the Qualified Permanent Supportive Housing
Project qualifies for the number of landscape points equivalent to 10% more
than otherwise required by Section 12.40 of this Code and Landscape Ordinance
Guidelines "O".



 



   (6)   Common Open Space.  Notwithstanding the requirements in
Section 12.21 G.2.(a)(4)(i) of this Code, recreation rooms at least 600
square feet in area for a development of 16 or more dwelling units or guest
rooms, or at least 400 square feet in area for a development of fewer than 16
dwelling units or guest rooms, may qualify as common open space, but shall
not qualify for more than 40 percent of the total required usable open space.



 



   (7)   Averaging of Floor Area Ratio, Parking or Open Space, and
Permitting Vehicular Access.  A Qualified Permanent Supportive Housing
Project that is located on two or more contiguous parcels may average the
Floor Area, open space and parking over the project site, and permit
vehicular access through a more restrictive zone to a less restrictive zone,
provided that:



 



   (i)   The proposed use is permitted by the underlying zone(s) of
each parcel; and



 



   (ii)   No further lot line adjustment or any other action that may
cause the Qualified Permanent Supportive Housing Project site to be
subdivided subsequent to this grant shall be permitted.



 



   (8)   Ground Floor Use.  Where nonresidential floor area is
required by a zoning ordinance, Specific Plan, Community Plan, Pedestrian
Overlay Zone or other set of development standards, that requirement may be
satisfied by any active ground floor use such as community rooms, resident
amenities, supportive service areas, and common open space.



 



   (9)   Other Development Standard.  Up to a 20% relief may be
provided from one other development standard not described in this section,
as that term is defined in California Government Code Section 65915(o)(1), or
as may be amended from time to time.



 



[Editor's note:  Subsections (8) and (9) were originally set forth as
subsections 5. and 6. in Ord. No. 185,492; renumbered at the discretion of
the Code editor.]



 



   (f)   Request for Additional Waivers.  The City may not apply a
development standard that will physically preclude the construction of the
Qualified Permanent Supportive Housing Project.  Applicants may request
additional waivers pursuant to the discretionary review procedures described
in Section 12.22 A.25.(g)(3) of this Code.  The applicant shall not be
required to provide a pro forma or other documentation to show that the
waiver or modification of any development standard(s) is needed in order to
make the Qualified Permanent Supportive Housing Project economically
feasible, but must provide reasonable documentation of its eligibility for
the requested waiver.  Additional waivers shall not be used to exempt
compliance with the performance standards described in Paragraph (g).



 



   (g)   Performance Standards.  All projects shall meet the following
performance standards or shall comply with the alternative compliance
measures pursuant to Section 14.00 B. of this Code.  If otherwise applicable
performance standards or design standards established under any zoning code,
specific plan, or other overlay requirements conflict with this Subsection,
those requirements shall supersede the standards provided in this Section.



 



   (1)   Location Requirement.  The Qualified Permanent Supportive
Housing Project shall be located within a High Quality Transit Area for the
horizon year in the current Regional Transportation Plan/Sustainable
Communities Strategy for the Southern California Association of Governments
region.



 



   (2)   Unit/Guest Room Requirements.  Each Dwelling Unit or Guest
Room shall have a private bathroom and cooking facilities containing, at
minimum, a sink, refrigerator, counter space, and a hotplate or microwave.



 



   (3)   Onsite Supportive Services Requirement.  Nonresidential floor
area shall be provided for onsite Supportive Services in the following ratios:



 



   (i)   For Qualified Permanent Supportive Housing Projects with 20 or
fewer total combined Dwelling Units or Guest Rooms, no less than 90 square
feet of dedicated office space shall be provided; or



 



   (ii)   For Qualified Permanent Supportive Housing Projects with
greater than 20 Dwelling Units or Guest Rooms, a minimum of 3 percent of the
total Residential Floor Area shall be dedicated for onsite Supportive
Services provided solely to Project residents, including but not limited to
community rooms, case management offices, computer rooms, and/or a community
kitchen.



 



   (4)   Facade Transparency.



 



   (i)   For any building located in a Commercial Zone, a minimum of 25
percent of that portion of the exterior street-facing walls which are between
2 feet to 8 feet above the sidewalk grade shall be comprised of transparent
(untinted, unfrosted, non-reflective) windows or openings, exclusive of areas
for walkways, driveways, paseos and plazas.



 



   (ii)   A minimum of 10 percent of the upper story portions of the
exterior street-facing building facade as measured from the top of the
finished ground floor to the top of the building facade shall be comprised of
transparent (untinted, unfrosted, non-reflective) windows or openings.



 



   (iii)   Glass Transparency.  Glass is considered transparent where
it has a transparency higher than 80 percent and external reflectance of less
than 15 percent.



 



   (5)   Massing.  Buildings more than 200 feet in length along any
exterior street-facing building facade shall include a design element that
provides visual relief every 100 feet.  The design element shall either
setback from or step forward from the face of the building by at least a
depth of 12 inches and shall be a width of no less than 5 percent of the
building face (ex: 5 percent of 100' = 5') and shall extend up the face of
the building to at least 50 percent of the facade height.



 



   (6)   Mechanical Equipment – Roof Mounted.  Roof mounted
mechanical equipment shall be set back a minimum of 5 feet from the edge of
the roof, and shall be fully screened from the ground level view from all
abutting properties and abutting public rights-of-way except alleys.  New
buildings must provide a parapet wall or other architectural element that
fully screens roof mounted equipment from ground level view.  Existing
buildings with no or low parapet walls shall screen the equipment on all
sides by an opaque screen.  Sustainable energy systems (including solar
panels, rainwater catchment devices and wind turbines) shall be exempt from
roof mounted screening requirements.



 



   (7)   Mechanical Equipment – Wall Mounted.  Wall mounted
mechanical equipment that is visible from a public right-of-way must be fully
screened by landscaping or an opaque screening material.  Screening must be
of a height equal to or greater than the height of the mechanical equipment
being screened.  Sustainable energy systems (including solar panels,
rainwater catchment devices and wind turbines) shall be exempt from wall
mounted screening requirements.



 



   (8)   Building Orientation.  All buildings shall be oriented to the
street by providing primary entrances, windows, architectural features or
balconies on the front and along any street-facing elevations.  Primary
entrances shall be connected to and visible from a public street such that a
pedestrian entering the building need not walk through a vehicle parking area
in order to arrive at the entrance.



 



   (9)   Landscaping.  All portions of the required front yard not
used for necessary driveways and walkways, including decorative walkways,
shall be landscaped and maintained, and not otherwise paved.



 



   (10)   Lighting.  Security night lighting shall be shielded so that
the light source cannot be seen from adjacent residential properties.



 



   (11)   Surface Parking.  Any portions of surface parking areas on
which automobile parking is prohibited, or which is otherwise not improved,
shall be fully landscaped with lawn, trees, shrubs or suitable groundcover,
and no portion except the access driveways shall be paved.



 



   (12)   At-Grade Parking.  No at-grade parking space shall be
located within the front yard.  Loading areas and off-street parking
facilities containing three or more spaces shall be effectively screened from
abutting streets and lots.  The screening shall not obstruct the view of the
driver entering or leaving the loading area or parking facility, or the view
from the street of entrances and exits to a loading area or parking
facility.  The screening shall consist of one or more of the following:



 



   (i)   A strip at least 5 feet in width of densely planted shrubs or
trees that are at least 2 feet high at the time of planting and are of a type
that may be expected to form, within three years after time of planting, a
continuous, unbroken, year round visual screen; or



 



   (ii)   A wall, barrier, or fence of uniform appearance.  Such wall,
barrier, or fence may be opaque or perforated, provided that not more than 50
percent of the face is open.  The wall, barrier or fence shall be between 4
and 6 feet in height.



 



   (13)   Construction Standards.  The applicant shall comply with all
of the construction standards provided in Subparagraphs (i) through (vi),
below.  The applicant shall retain an independent construction monitor,
approved by the Department of Building and Safety (DBS), who shall be
responsible for monitoring implementation of the construction standards. 
The construction monitor shall also prepare documentation of the applicant's
compliance with the construction standards during construction every 90 days
in a form and manner satisfactory to the DBS.  The documentation must be
signed by the applicant and the construction monitor.  DBS shall verify that
the applicant has or will (by having an appropriately qualified expert(s)
under contract as may be necessary) comply with the construction standards
prior to issuance of any permits.



 



   (i)   No pile driving shall be allowed unless required due to
geological conditions.  Where piles are needed, they shall be installed
through quiet techniques such as vibratory piles.



 



   (ii)   If excavating below previously excavated depths, the
applicant shall have appropriately qualified experts use all reasonable
methods, consistent with professional standards, to determine the potential
that archaeological resources, paleontological resources or unique geological
feature (resources) are present on the project site, including through record
searches and surveys.  If a qualified expert determines there is a medium to
high potential that resources are on the project site  and the project has
the potential to impact resources, the qualified expert(s) shall monitor and
direct any excavation, grading or construction activities to identify
resources and avoid potential impacts to resources.



 



   (iii)   If archaeological resources, paleontological resources, or
unique geological features (resources) are discovered during excavation,
grading or construction activities, applicant shall cease work in the area of
discovery until a qualified expert has evaluated the find and the City has
taken any necessary measures to preserve and protect the find in accordance
with federal, state and local law and guidelines.



 



   (iv)   If the project involves soil disturbance on land currently or
historically zoned industrial or, previously used, in whole or in part, for a
gas station, gas or oil well or dry cleaning facility, the applicant shall
hire a qualified Environmental Professional (as defined in Title 40 Code of
Federal Regulations § 312.10 Definitions) to prepare a Phase I and, as
needed, a Phase II Environmental Site Assessment.  The Site Assessment(s)
shall be submitted to DBS and made publicly available.  If recommended by
the Phase I or, as applicable, Phase II Environmental Site Assessment, a
remediation plan shall be prepared by an Environmental Professional including
in consultation with or as legally required by any appropriate oversight
agencies, (e.g., the Department of Toxic Substances Control and the Los
Angeles Regional Water Quality Control Board).  If remediation is required,
no demolition, grading, or building permit shall issue until either, a No
Further Action letter, if required, is issued by an oversight agency, or if
no such letter is required, an Environmental Professional has certified that
the identified hazardous materials or hazardous waste have been remediated to
an acceptable level appropriate to the intended use.



 



   (v)   If excavating below previously excavated depths, the applicant
shall notify the California Native American tribes that are traditionally and
culturally affiliated with the geographic area of the project site if the
Tribe requested in writing to be notified of projects in that area.  The
applicant shall provide notice to the tribes in a form and manner required by
the Department. If the Department determines there is a medium to high
potential for tribal resources to exist on or near the project site through
credible evidence, including evidence that may be submitted by a tribe, as
determined by the Director in consultation with the Office of Historic
Resources, the excavation in previously undisturbed soils shall be monitored
by a qualified Tribal Monitor and/or an archaeologist qualified to identify
tribal resources.  The applicant shall be required to retain a qualified
expert if determined necessary by the Director.



 



   (vi)   If tribal resources are discovered during excavation,
grading, or construction activities, work shall cease in the area of the
discovery until an authorized Tribal Representative has been provided an
opportunity to evaluate the find.  Construction personnel shall not collect
or move any tribal resources.  Applicant shall cease work in the area of
discovery until a qualified expert has evaluated the find and the City has
taken any necessary measures to preserve and protect the find in accordance
with federal, state and local law and guidelines.



 



   (14)   Historic Resources.  The Qualified Permanent Supportive
Housing shall not involve a historical resource, as defined by Public
Resources Code Section 21084.1 as determined by the Director, in consultation
with the Office of Historic Resources.



 



   (h)   Purpose.  The purpose of this subdivision is to facilitate
the expedient production of Supportive Housing units meeting the definitions
and regulations established herein in order to provide high-quality,
well-serviced and affordable housing units which are responsive to the needs
of the Target Population.  Qualified Permanent Supportive Housing Projects
should be located at sites that are accessible by public transit, including
paratransit.  Individual Dwelling Units or Guest Rooms should be provided
with basic amenities that are sufficient to support independent living. 
Sufficient non-residential floor area should be made available on the subject
property to provide the appropriate level of Supportive Services to the
resident Target Population.  Architectural features should be incorporated
in the building design to ensure that buildings are street-oriented, provide
visual interest at the street level, and facilitate pedestrian access. 
Landscaping should be provided in any front yard area or on any surface
parking area to provide additional visual interest at the street level. 
Lighting on the site should be located so as to not reflect on adjoining
residential uses.



 



   (i)   Alternative Compliance.  If compliance with Performance
Standards is not met, the applicant may apply for approval of alternative
compliance measures pursuant to the procedures in Subsection B. of this
section.  The Application and Approval provisions in Paragraph (b) and the
requirements in Paragraph (c) must be met in order to qualify for alternative
compliance review.  The Construction Performance Standards in Subparagraph
(g)(13) must also be met unless the City makes the necessary findings to
modify or delete one or more Standards which are also mitigation measures
included in the mitigation and monitoring program adopted to approve this
ordinance, through a subsequent environmental process prepared for the
Alternative Compliance.



 



   B.   Alternative Compliance Procedures for Public Benefit Projects.



 



   1.   Applicability.  If a proposed public benefit project does not
comply with the performance standards delineated in Subsection A, the
applicant may apply for approval of alternative compliance measures pursuant
to the following procedures.



 



   2.   Application for Permit.  To apply for an alternative
compliance approval for a public benefit project listed in Subsection A, an
applicant shall file an application, on a form provided by the Department of
City Planning, and include all information required by the instructions on
the application and the guidelines adopted by the Director of Planning.  The
application shall include a description of how the proposed alternative
compliance measures meet the goals set forth in Subsection A.  The Director
of Planning shall adopt guidelines which shall be used to determine when an
application is deemed complete.



 



   3.   Initial Decision.  The initial decision on an application
shall be made by the Director.



 



   4.   Public Hearing and Notice.  Upon receipt of a complete
application, the Director shall set the matter for public hearing, unless
otherwise provided in Subsection A, and shall conduct a hearing at which
evidence shall be taken.



 



   The Department shall give notice to the applicant of the time, place
and purpose of the hearing by mailing a written notice no less than 24 days
prior to the date of the hearing.  No further notice is required in
connection with applications for public utilities and public service uses or
structures, or governmental enterprises, including libraries, museums, fire
or police stations.  In connection with all other applications, unless
otherwise provided in Subsection A, notice of the hearing shall also be given
in all of the following manners:



 



   (a)   Publication.  By at least one publication in a newspaper of
general circulation in the City, designated for that purpose by the City
Council, no less than 24 days prior to the date of hearing; and



 



   (b)   Written Notice.



 



   (1)   By mailing a written notice no less than 24 days prior to the
date of the hearing to the owner or owners of the property involved, and to
the owners of all property within and outside of the City that is within 500
feet of the exterior boundaries of the property involved, using for the
purpose of notification, the last known names and addresses of owners as
shown on the records of the City Engineer or the records of the County
Assessor.  Where all property within the 500-foot radius is under the same
ownership as the property involved in the application, the owners of all
property that adjoins that ownership, or is separated from it only by a
street, alley, public right-of-way or other easement, shall also be notified
as set forth above; and  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,595, Eff. 4/10/11.)



 



   (2)   By mailing a written notice no less than 24 days prior to the
date of the hearing to residential, commercial and industrial occupants of
all property within 500 feet of the exterior boundaries of the property
involved.  This requirement can be met by mailing the notice to
“occupant”; and



 



   (3)   If notice pursuant to this Subdivision 4(b)(1) and (2) will
not result in notice being given to at least 20 different owners of at least
20 different lots other than the subject property, and at least 50 different
persons, then the 500-foot radius for notification shall be increased in
increments of 50 feet until the required number of persons, and lots are
encompassed within the expanded area.  Notification shall then be given to
all property owners and occupants within the expanded area; and



 



   (c)   Site Posting.  By the applicant posting notice of the public
hearing in a conspicuous place on the property involved at least ten days
prior to the date of the public hearing.  The Director of Planning may adopt
guidelines consistent with this section for the posting of notices if the
Director determines that those guidelines are necessary and appropriate.



 



   5.   Findings for Approval.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff.
10/10/00.)  In approving any public benefit project, the Director shall find
that the proposed project substantially meets the purposes of the performance
standards set forth in Subsection A.  The Director shall adopt written
findings of fact supporting the decision based upon evidence in the record,
including staff investigations.  All projects approved pursuant to this
Section shall also be subject to the regulations in Subsections L through Q
of Section 12.24.



 



   6.   Conditions for Approval.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff.
10/10/00.)  In approving any alternative compliance measures for a public
benefit project pursuant to this section, the Director shall impose
conditions to secure compliance with the applicable performance standards and
purposes set forth in Subsection A and with any alternative methods of
compliance approved pursuant to this procedure.



 



   7.   Time to Act.  The initial decision shall be made within 75
days of the date the application is deemed complete, or within an extended
period as mutually agreed upon in writing by the applicant and the
Director.  An initial decision shall not be considered made until written
findings are adopted in accordance with Subdivision 5.  Upon making a
decision, the Director shall transmit a copy of the written findings and
decision to the applicant, to all owners of properties abutting, across the
street or alley from, or having a common corner with the subject property and
to all persons who have filed a written request for the notice with the
Department of City Planning.



 



   8.   Failure to Act -Transfer of Jurisdiction.



 



   (a)   If the Director fails to act on an application within the time
provided in Subdivision 7, the applicant may file a request for a transfer of
jurisdiction to the City Planning Commission for decision.  The Director of
Planning shall prescribe the form and manner of filing requests for transfers
of jurisdiction.



 



   (b)   When the City Planning Commission receives the applicant’s
request for a transfer of jurisdiction, the Director shall lose jurisdiction;
provided, however, that in a transfer of jurisdiction from the Director, the
City Planning Commission may remand the matter to the Director, who shall
regain jurisdiction for the time and purpose specified by the City Planning
Commission.  Upon receipt of a written request for withdrawal of the
transfer of jurisdiction, the City Planning Commission shall remand the
matter to the Director.



 



   (c)   If no remand or written request for withdrawal of the transfer
occurs, the City Planning Commission shall consider the application following
the same procedures and subject to the same limitations as are applicable to
the Director, except that the City Planning Commission shall act within 45
days of the transfer of jurisdiction.  The Department of City Planning,
shall make investigations and furnish any reports as the City Planning
Commission may request.



 



   9.   Appeals.



 



   (a)   Effective Date of Initial Decision.  An initial decision
becomes final and effective upon the close of the 15-day appeal period if no
appeal is filed, or as provided in this subdivision, if an appeal is filed.



 



   (b)   Appeals from Initial Decision.  An applicant or any other
person aggrieved by an initial decision of the Director may appeal the
decision to the City Planning Commission.  The appeal shall be filed within
15 days of the date of mailing of the initial decision on forms provided by
the Department.  The appeal shall set forth specifically the points at
issue, and the reasons for the appeal.  Any appeal not filed within the
15-day period shall not be considered by the City Planning Commission.  The
filing of an appeal stays proceedings in the matter until decision by the
City Planning Commission.  Once an appeal is filed, the Director shall
transmit the appeal and the file to the City Planning Commission, together
with a report responding to the allegations made in the appeal. 
Notwithstanding the above, the City Council shall be the appellate body
instead of the City Planning Commission, if:



 



   (i)   the City Planning Commission was the initial decision-maker
for an initial decision taken prior to July 1, 2000; and



 



   (ii)   an appeal was filed, but no action on the appeal was taken
prior to July 1, 2000.



 



   (c)   Appellate Decision - Hearing and Notice.  When considering an
appeal from the decision of the Director, the City Planning Commission shall
make its decision within 75 days after the expiration of the appeal period. 
This period may be extended by mutual written consent of the applicant and
the City Planning Commission.  Before acting on any appeal, the City
Planning Commission shall set the matter for hearing, giving the same notice
as provided for the original hearing.



 



   (d)   Time for Appellate Decision.  The City Planning Commission
shall act within 75 days after the expiration of the appeal period or within
any additional period as may be agreed upon by the applicant and the City
Planning Commission.  The failure of the City Planning Commission to adopt a
resolution within this time period shall be deemed a denial of the appeal.



 



   (e)   Appellate Decision.  The City Planning Commission may reverse
or modify, in whole or in part, any decision of the Director.



 



   (f)   Procedures and Effective Date of Appellate Decision.  If the
City Planning Commission makes a decision on an appeal pursuant to this
subdivision, the appellate decision shall be final and effective as provided
in Charter Section 245.



 



   10.   (Deleted by Ord. No. 182,106, Eff. 5/20/12.)



 



   11.   Fee Deferral for Density Increase for Affordable Housing
Pursuant to Section 14.00 A.2.  The payment of filing fees may be deferred
pursuant to the provisions of Sections 19.01 O. and 19.05 A.1. and 5.



 



   12.   Exception to Time Limits.  Where alternative compliance
measures have been approved for a governmental enterprise use, no time limit
to utilize the privilege shall apply provided that all of the following
conditions are met:



 



   (a)   The property involved is acquired or legal proceeding for its
acquisition is commenced within one year of the effective date of the
approval.



 



   (b)   A sign is immediately placed on the property indicating its
ownership and the purpose to which it is to be developed, as soon as legally
possible after the effective date of the permit.  This sign shall have a
surface area of at least 20 square feet.



 



   (c)   The sign is maintained on the property in good condition until
the conditional use privileges are utilized.



 



   13.   Exceptions to Notice and Hearing Requirements in Subdivision 4.



 



   (a)   Shelter for the Homeless Pursuant to Subsection A.8. An
application for approval of an alternative compliance measure for a shelter
for the homeless as defined in Section 12.03 shall be set for public hearing,
and notice shall be given in the same manner as provided for in Section 12.27
C.  However, in the M1, M2, M3 Zones, the Director may waive the public
hearing if the applicant submits with the application the written approval of
all of the owners of all properties abutting, across the street or alley from
or having a common corner with the subject property.



 



   (b)   Temporary Accommodations for Homeless Persons Pursuant to
Subsection A.9. An application for approval of an alternative compliance
measure  for temporary accommodations for homeless persons as defined in
Section 12.03 need not be set for public hearing.  The application shall be
submitted on a form and shall be accompanied by information as required by
the Director.  There shall be no filing fee and no appeal fee in connection
with an application.



 



   Before approving an application pursuant to this section, the Director
shall notify all adjacent property owners of the pendency of the application
and shall provide them an opportunity to present their comments.  After
making a decision pursuant to this subdivision, the Director shall notify, in
writing, the applicant and owners of all properties located within 300 feet
of the subject property, of his or her decision.



 



   14.   Revocation.  (Added by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.) The
revocation procedure that applies to conditional uses and other similar
quasi-judicial approvals in Section 12.24Z shall also apply to revocations of
public benefits that were granted pursuant to the alternative compliance
procedures in this section.



 



 



SEC. 14.01.  PROCEDURE.



   (Repealed by Ord. No. 173,374, Eff. 8/3/00.)



 



 



SEC. 14.02.  COMPLIANCE.



   (Repealed by Ord. No. 173,374, Eff. 8/3/00.)



 



 



SEC. 14.03.  VARIANCES – APPEALS.



   (Repealed by Ord. No. 173,374, Eff. 8/3/00.)



 



 



SEC. 14.04.  STREET VACATION.



   (Repealed by Ord. No. 173,374, Eff. 8/3/00.)



 



 



SEC. 14.05.  ENFORCEMENT.



   (Repealed by Ord. No. 173,374, Eff. 8/3/00.)



 



 



 



ARTICLE 4.3
ELDERCARE FACILITY UNIFIED PERMIT PROCESS



 




(Article 4.3 Added by Ord. No. 178,063, Eff. 12/30/06.)




 



 



Section



14.3.1   Eldercare Facilities.



 



 



SEC. 14.3.1.  ELDERCARE FACILITIES.



   (Added by Ord. No. 178,063, Eff. 12/30/06.)



 



   A.   Purpose Statement.  The purpose of this article is to provide
development standards for Alzheimer's/ Dementia Care Housing, Assisted Living
Care Housing, Senior Independent Housing and Skilled Nursing Care Housing,
create a single process for approvals and facilitate the processing of
applications of Eldercare Facilities.  These facilities provide much needed
services and housing for the growing senior population of the City of Los
Angeles.



 



   B.   Eldercare Facility Unified Permit.  The Zoning Administrator,
as the initial decision maker, may, upon application, permit an Eldercare
Facility to be located on a lot or lots in the A1 through R3 Zones, or in the
RAS3, R4, RAS4, R5, and all C Zones, when an Eldercare Facility does not meet
the use, area, or height provisions of the respective zone contained in this
chapter, or the requirements of any specific plan, supplemental use district,
"T" classification, "Q" condition, "D" limitation, or Citywide regulation
adopted or imposed by City action.  In order to approve the project, the
Zoning Administrator shall ensure that it is in conformance with the
provisions of this section.



 



   In addition, if the proposed Eldercare Facility is located within the
boundaries of an adopted specific plan, notwithstanding the provisions of
Section 11.5.7 C. of this Code, the Zoning Administrator shall have the
initial decision making authority to decide whether the proposed Eldercare
Facility is in conformance with the applicable regulations of the specific
plan.  In making this determination, the Zoning Administrator shall make
each of the findings set forth in Section 11.5.7 C.2. of this Code, following
the provisions set forth in this section.  Further, if the proposed
Eldercare Facility is subject to site plan review, notwithstanding the
provisions of Section 16.05 of this Code, the Zoning Administrator shall have
the initial decision making authority relating to site plan approval.  In
making this determination, the Zoning Administrator shall make each of the
findings set forth in Section 16.05 F. of this Code, following the provisions
set forth in this section.



 



   C.   Application for Permit.  To apply for an Eldercare Facility
Unified Permit approval, an applicant shall file an application and
development plans with the Department of City Planning, on a form provided by
the Department, and include all information required by the instructions on
the application and the guidelines adopted by the Director of Planning.  The
Director of Planning shall adopt guidelines which shall be used to determine
when an application is deemed complete.  The application shall include a
description of how the proposed Eldercare Facility meets the findings set
forth in this section.



 



   D.   Procedures.  An application for an Eldercare Facility Unified
Permit shall follow the procedures set forth in Sections 14.00 B.4., 14.00
B.7. through B.11. and Section 19.00 of this Code.  If the Zoning
Administrator fails to act on an application within the time provided, the
applicant may file a request for a transfer of jurisdiction to the Area
Planning Commission for decision, pursuant to the procedures set forth in
Section 14.00 B.8.  An applicant or any other person aggrieved by a decision
of the Zoning Administrator may appeal the decision to the Area Planning
Commission pursuant to the procedures set forth in Section 14.00 B.9. and
Section 19.00.



 



   E.   Findings for Approval.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,095, Eff.
5/7/12.)  The Zoning Administrator shall not grant the approval unless he or
she finds that the strict application of the land use regulations on the
subject property would result in practical difficulties or unnecessary
hardships inconsistent with the general purpose and intent of the zoning
regulations.  The Zoning Administrator must also find:



 



   1.   that the project's location, size, height, operations and other
significant features shall be compatible with and shall not adversely affect
or further degrade adjacent properties, the surrounding neighborhood, or the
public health, welfare, and safety;



 



   2.   that the project shall provide services to the elderly such as
housing, medical services, social services, or long term care to meet
citywide demand;



 



   3.   that the project shall not create an adverse impact on street
access or circulation in the surrounding neighborhood;



 



   4.   that the project provides for an arrangement of uses,
buildings, structures, open spaces and other improvements that are compatible
with the scale and character of the adjacent properties and surrounding
neighborhood; and



 



   5.   that the project is in substantial conformance with the
purposes, intent and provisions of the General Plan, applicable community
plan, and with any applicable specific plan.



 



   F.   Conditions of Approval.  In approving any Eldercare Facility
pursuant to this section, the Zoning Administrator may impose those
conditions, based upon written findings, which it deems necessary to protect
the best interests of the surrounding property or neighborhood, or to ensure
that the development is compatible with the surrounding properties or
neighborhood, or to lessen or prevent any detrimental effect on the
surrounding property or neighborhood, or to secure appropriate development in
harmony with the objectives of the General Plan.



 



   G.   Fees.  The fee shall be as provided in Section 19.01 X. for
the Eldercare Facility Unified Permit.



 



   H.   Existing Uses.  Any lawful use of an Eldercare Facility
existing on a lot or portion of a lot at the time the property is first
classified in a zone in which the use is permitted only by conditional use or
at the time the use in that zone first becomes subject to the requirements of
this section, shall be deemed to be approved for the Eldercare Facility
Unified Permit and may be continued on the lot.  Further, the conditions
included in any special district ordinance, exception, conditional use, or
variance, which authorized the use, shall also continue in effect.



 



   I.   Development of Site.  On any lot or portion of a lot on which
an Eldercare Facility Unified Permit has been approved pursuant to the
provisions of this section, new buildings or structures may be erected,
enlargements may be made to existing buildings, and the existing housing
types within the Eldercare Facility may be extended on the approved site,
provided that development plans are submitted to and approved by the Zoning
Administrator.  The Zoning Administrator may disapprove the plans if he/she
finds that the use does not conform to the purpose and intent of the findings
required for an Eldercare Facility under this section, and may specify the
conditions under which the plans may be approved.  The decision of the
Zoning Administrator shall be subject to the same appeal procedures as is
provided for an application to establish the Eldercare Facility.



 



   J.   Reduction of Site.  So long as the Eldercare Facility use is
continued, the entire approved site shall be retained as an Eldercare
Facility, and no portion shall be severed from the site or utilized for other
purposes unless development plans for the reduced site are first submitted to
and approved by the Zoning Administrator.  The decision of the Zoning
Administrator shall be subject to the same appeal procedures as is provided
for an application to establish the Eldercare Facility.



 



   K.   Change of Use.  No housing type within an Eldercare Facility
may be changed to a different housing type unless the new housing type is
authorized in accordance with the procedures in this section for the
establishment of an Eldercare Facility.  As part of any Eldercare Facility
Unified Permit, the Zoning Administrator or the Area Planning Commission on
appeal, may approve changes to the number of dwelling units, guest beds,
guest rooms, or floor area provided that a minimum of 75 percent of the floor
area, exclusive of common areas, shall consist of Senior Independent Housing
and/or Assisted Living Care Housing.



 



   L.   Discontinuance of Use.  If an Eldercare Facility is abandoned,
or is discontinued for a continuous period of one year, it may not be
re-established unless authorized in accordance with the procedures in this
section for the establishment of an Eldercare Facility.



 



   M.   Revocation.  The revocation procedure that applies to
conditional uses and other similar quasi-judicial approvals in Sections 12.24
Z. and 12.24 AA. shall also apply to revocations of Eldercare Facilities that
were granted pursuant to the procedures in this section.



 



 



ARTICLE 4.4
SIGN REGULATIONS



 




(Article Added by Ord. No. 179,416, Eff. 12/20/07, Oper. 1/1/08.)




 




Section





14.4.1   Purpose.





14.4.2   Definitions.





14.4.3   Application.





14.4.4   General Provisions.





14.4.5   Hazard to Traffic.





14.4.6   Freeway Exposure.





14.4.7   Information Signs.





14.4.8   Monument Signs.





14.4.9   Projecting Signs.





14.4.10   Wall Signs.





14.4.11   Illuminated Architectural Canopy Signs.





14.4.12   Pole Signs.





14.4.13   Roof Signs.





14.4.14   Window Signs.





14.4.15   Marquee Signs.





14.4.16   Temporary Signs.





14.4.17   Temporary Signs on Construction Walls.





14.4.18   Off-Site Signs.





14.4.19   Awning Signs.





14.4.20   Original Art Murals, Vintage Original Art Murals, and Public Art
Installations.




 



 



SEC. 14.4.1.  PURPOSE.



 



   The purpose of this article is to promote public safety and welfare by
regulating signs in keeping with the following objectives:



 



   A.   That the design, construction, installation, repair and
maintenance of signs will not interfere with traffic safety or otherwise
endanger public safety.



 



   B.   That the regulations will provide reasonable protection to the
visual environment by controlling the size, height, spacing and location of
signs.



 



   C.   That both the public and sign users will benefit from signs
having improved legibility, readability and visibility.



 



   D.   That consideration will be given to equalizing the opportunity
for messages to be displayed.



 



   E.   That adequacy of message opportunity will be available to sign
users without dominating the visual appearance of the area.



 



   F.   That the regulations will conform to judicial decisions,
thereby limiting further costly litigation and facilitating enforcement of
these regulations.  (Added by Ord. No. 180,841, Eff. 8/14/09.)



 



 



SEC. 14.4.2.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   The following terms shall apply to this article.  Other terms used in
this article shall have the meanings set forth in Section 12.03 of this Code,
if defined in that section.



 



   Bisecting Line.  A line that equally divides the angle created by the
projection of intersecting lot lines of a lot adjoining the street of a
corner lot as illustrated in Diagram C of this article.



 



   Building Frontage.  The projection of the building walls upon the
street used for street frontage.



 



   Digital Display.  A sign face, building face, and/or any building or
structural component that displays still images, scrolling images, moving
images, or flashing images, including video and animation, through the use of
grid lights, cathode ray projections, light emitting diode displays, plasma
screens, liquid crystal displays, fiber optics, or other electronic media or
technology that is either independent of or attached to, integrated into, or
projected onto a building or structural component, and that may be changed
remotely through electronic means.  (Added by Ord. No. 180,841, Eff.
8/14/09.)



 



   Face of Building.  The general outer surface, not including cornices,
bay windows or architectural projections, of any exterior wall of a building.



 



   Freeway.  A highway in respect to which the owners or those in
possession of abutting lands have no right or easement of access to or from
their abutting lands or in respect to which the owners have only limited or
restricted right or easement of access, and which is declared to be a
freeway, in compliance with the Streets and Highways Code of the State of
California.



 



   Identification Sign.  A wall sign that is limited to a company logo,
generic type of business, or the name of a business or building.



 



   Illuminated Architectural Canopy Sign.  An enclosed illuminated
structure that is attached to the wall of a building with the face of the
sign approximately parallel to the wall and with the message integrated into
its surface.



 



   Inflatable Device.  A sign that is a cold air inflated object, which
may be of various shapes, made of flexible fabric, resting on the ground or
structure and equipped with a portable blower motor that provides a constant
flow of air into the device.  Inflatable devices are restrained, attached,
or held in place by a cord, rope, cable or similar method.  The term
inflatable device shall not include any object that contains helium, hot air
or a lighter-than-air substance.



 



   Information Sign.  A sign that is limited to a message giving
directions, instructions, menus, selections or address numerals.



 



   Main Traveled Roadway of a Freeway.  The portion of a freeway,
including interchange roadways connecting one freeway with another, which is
designed for the movement of large volumes of vehicular traffic, efficiently
and safely at high speed, but not including service roadways, landscape
areas, or ingress or egress ramps connecting the freeway with other streets.



 



   Monument Sign.  A sign that is erected directly upon the existing or
artificially created grade, or that is raised no more than 12 inches from the
existing or artificially created grade to the bottom of the sign, and that
has a horizontal dimension equal to or greater than its vertical dimension.



 



   Off-Site Sign.  A sign that displays any message directing attention
to a business, product, service, profession, commodity, activity, event,
person, institution or any other commercial message, which is generally
conducted, sold, manufactured, produced, offered or occurs elsewhere than on
the premises where the sign is located.



 



   Off-Site Sign Structure.  A structure of any kind or character,
erected, used or maintained for an off-site sign or signs, upon which any
poster, bill, printing, painting, projected image or other advertisement may
be placed.



 



   On-Site Sign.  A sign that is other than an off-site sign.



 



   Original Art Mural.  A one-of-a-kind, hand-painted, hand-tiled, or
digitally printed image on the exterior wall of a building that does not
contain any commercial message.  For definition purposes, a commercial
message is any message that advertises a business conducted, services
rendered, or goods produced or sold.  (Added by Ord. No. 182,706, Eff.
10/12/13.)



 



   Perpendicular Line.  A straight line between the point on a sign face
that is closest to the street and the point where the line intersects the
street lot line at a 90 degree angle, as illustrated in Diagram C of this
article.



 



   Pole Sign.  A freestanding sign that is erected or affixed to one or
more poles or posts and that does not meet the requirements of a monument
sign.



 



   Projecting Sign.  A sign, other than a wall sign, that is attached to
a building and projects outward from the building with one or more sign faces
approximately perpendicular to the face of the building.



 



   Projection.  The distance by which a sign extends beyond the building
line.



 



   Public Art Installation.  A facility, amenity or project that does not
contain any commercial message and which is either an "approved public arts
project" as defined by Section 19.85.4 of the Los Angeles Administrative Code
or approved pursuant to Section 91.107.4.6 of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code.  For definition purposes, a commercial message is any message that
advertises a business conducted, services rendered, or goods produced or
sold.  (Added by Ord. No. 182,706, Eff. 10/12/13.)



 



   Roof  Sign.  A sign erected upon a roof of a building.



 



   Sign.  Any whole or part of a display board, wall, screen or object,
used to announce, declare, demonstrate, display or otherwise present a
message and attract the attention of the public.



 



   Sign Area.  An area circumscribed by the smallest geometric shape
created with a maximum of eight straight lines, which will enclose all words,
letters, figures, symbols, designs and pictures, together with all framing,
background material, colored or illuminated areas and attention-attracting
devices, forming an integral part of an individual message except that:



 



   1.   Wall signs having no discernible boundary shall have the areas
between letters, words intended to be read together and any device intended
to draw attention to the sign message included in any computation of surface
area.



 



   2.   For spherical, cylindrical or other three-dimensional signs the
area of the sign shall be computed from the smallest two-dimensional
geometrical shape or shapes, which will best approximate the greatest actual
surface area visible from any one direction.



 



   3.   Sign support structures are excluded if neutral in color.



 



   4.   “Time and Temperature” sign copy is excluded from
computation of sign area if the copy is less than 56 square feet in area.



 



   Sign Face.  The surface upon which the sign message is placed.



 



   Street Frontage.  The length of a line separating a lot from one
street.



 



   Supergraphic Sign.  A sign, consisting of an image projected onto a
wall or printed on vinyl, mesh or other material with or without written
text, supported and attached to a wall by an adhesive and/or by using
stranded cable and eye-bolts and/or other materials or methods, and which
does not comply with the following provisions of this Code:  Sections
14.4.10; 14.4.16, 14.4.17; 14.4.18; and/or 14.4.20.



 



   Temporary Construction Wall.  A wooden fence or wooden barrier that
provides protection for pedestrians and is erected and maintained on the
perimeter of a construction or demolition site pursuant to Section 3303 of
the California Building Code (CBC). 



 



   Temporary Sign.  Any sign that is to be maintained for a limited
duration, not to exceed 30 days, including paper signs and other signs that
are not permanently affixed to the ground or building.



 



   Vintage Original Art Mural.  An Original Art Mural that existed prior
to the operative date of this definition.  (Added by Ord. No. 182,706, Eff.
10/12/13.)



 



   Wall Sign.  Any sign attached to, painted on or erected against the
wall of a building or structure, with the exposed face of the sign in a plane
approximately parallel to the plane of the wall.



 



   Window Sign.  Any sign, except for a supergraphic sign, that is
attached to, affixed to, leaning against, or otherwise placed within six feet
of a window or door in a manner so that the sign is visible from outside the
building.



 



 



SEC. 14.4.3.  APPLICATION.



 



   A.   Scope.  All exterior signs and sign support structures shall
conform to the requirements of this article and all other applicable
provisions of this Code, except that the provisions of Sections 14.4.4 E. and
G.; 14.4.4 I.; 14.4.5; 14.4.6; 14.4.12; 14.4.18; 91.6205.2; and 91.6216 of
this Code shall not apply to the relocation of signs or sign support
structures that existed on January 17, 1993, that were erected or are
maintained by the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum Commission (Commission) on
property owned or controlled, in whole or in part, by the Commission.



 



   B.   On-Site Signs.  The following provisions of this Code, as
applicable, shall apply to on-site signs:  Sections 14.4.4 A.; 14.4.5;
14.4.6; 14.4.7; 14.4.9; 14.4.10; 14.4.11; 14.4.12; 14.4.13; 14.4.14; 14.4.15;
14.4.19; 91.6205; 91.6207; and 91.6216.



 



   C.   Off-Site Signs.  The following provisions of this Code, as
applicable, shall apply to off-site signs:  Sections 14.4.4 A.; 14.4.5;
14.4.6; 14.4.18; 91.6205; and 91.6207.



 



   D.   Temporary Signs.  The following provisions of this Code, as
applicable, shall apply to temporary on-site and off-site signs:  Sections
14.4.4 A; 14.4.5; 14.4.6; 14.4.16; 14.4.17; 91.6205; and 91.6207. 



 



   E.   (Deleted by Ord. No. 182,706, Eff. 10/12/13.)



 



 



SEC. 14.4.4.  GENERAL PROVISIONS.



 



   A.   Ideological and Political Signs.  No provision of this article
shall prohibit an ideological, political or other noncommercial message on a
sign otherwise permitted by this article.



 



   B.   Prohibited Signs.  Signs are prohibited if they:



 



   1.   Contain obscene matters, as defined in Section 311 of the Penal
Code of the State of California.



 



   2.   Contain or consist of posters, pennants, banners, ribbons,
streamers or spinners, except as permitted by Sections 14.4.16 and 14.4.17 of
this Code.



 



   3.   Contain flashing, mechanical and strobe lights in conflict with
the provisions of Sections 80.08.4 and 93.0107 of this Code.



 



   4.   Are revolving and where all or any portion rotate at greater
than six revolutions per minute.



 



   5.   Are tacked, pasted or otherwise temporarily affixed on the
walls of buildings, barns, sheds, trees, poles, posts or fences, except as
permitted by Sections 14.4.16 and 14.4.17 of this Code. 



 



   6.   Are affixed to any vehicle or trailer on private property if
the vehicle or trailer is not intended to be otherwise used in the business
and the sole purpose of attaching the sign to the vehicle or trailer is to
attract people to a place of business.



 



   7.   Emit audible sounds, odor or visible matter.



 



   8.   Use human beings, live animals, animated figures, motion
pictures or slide projectors in connection with any sign.



 



   9.   (Amended by Ord. No. 180,841, Eff. 8/14/09.)  Are supergraphic
signs.



 



   EXCEPTIONS:  This prohibition shall not apply to supergraphic signs
that are specifically permitted pursuant to a legally adopted specific plan,
supplemental use district or an approved development agreement.  This
exception shall become operative only to the extent that Subdivision 9. is
deemed constitutional upon the reversal of the trial court decision in the
case of World Wide Rush, LLC v. City of Los Angeles, United States District
Court Case No. CV 07-238 ABC.



 



   In addition, notwithstanding the provisions of Section 12.26 A.3. of
this Code, this prohibition shall not apply to any building permit issued
prior to the effective date of this ordinance if the Department of Building
and Safety determines that both substantial liabilities have been incurred,
and substantial work has been performed on site, in accordance with the terms
of that permit pursuant to Section 91.106.4.3.1 of this Code.



 



   10.   (Deleted by Ord. No. 182,706, Eff. 10/12/13.)



 



   11.   (Amended by Ord. No. 180,841, Eff. 8/14/09.) Are off-site
signs, including off-site digital displays, except when off-site signs are
specifically permitted pursuant to a relocation agreement entered into
pursuant to California Business and Professions Code Section 5412.  This
prohibition shall also apply to alterations, enlargements or conversions to
digital displays of legally existing off-site signs, except for alterations
that conform to the provisions of Section 91.6216 and all other requirements
of this Code.



 



   EXCEPTIONS:  This prohibition shall not apply to off-site signs,
including off-site digital displays, that are specifically permitted pursuant
to a legally adopted specific plan, supplemental use district or an approved
development agreement.  This exception shall become operative only to the
extent that Subdivision 11. is deemed constitutional upon the reversal of the
trial court decision in the case of World Wide Rush, LLC v. City of Los
Angeles, United States District Court Case No. CV 07-238 ABC.



 



   In addition, notwithstanding the provisions of Section 12.26 A.3. of
this Code, this prohibition shall not apply to any building permit issued
prior to the effective date of this ordinance if the Department of Building
and Safety determines that both substantial liabilities have been incurred,
and substantial work has been performed on site, in accordance with the terms
of that permit pursuant to Section 91.106.4.3.1 of this Code.



 



   12.   Are inflatable devices, except when inflatable devices are
specifically permitted pursuant to a legally adopted specific plan,
supplemental use district or an approved development agreement.



 



   C.   Prohibited Locations.



 



   1.   No sign or sign support structure shall project into any public
alley, except that a sign or sign support structure above a height of 14 feet
may project no more than six inches into a public alley.



 



   2.   No sign or sign support structure shall be located less than
six feet horizontally or 12 feet vertically from overhead electrical
conductors, which are energized in excess of 750 volts.  The term
“overhead electrical conductors” as used here shall mean any electrical
conductor, either bare or insulated, installed above ground, except
electrical conductors that are enclosed in iron pipe or other material
covering of equal strength.  Arcs of six foot radius may be used to define
corners of prohibition area.



 



   3.   No sign or sign support structure shall be erected in a
visibility triangle as defined by Sections 12.21 C.7. and 62.200 of this Code.



 



   4.   No sign or sign support structure shall be located within two
feet of the curb or edge of any roadway.



 



   D.   Maintenance.



 



   1.   Appearance.  Every sign shall be maintained in a clean, safe
and good working condition, including the replacement of defective parts,
defaced or broken faces, lighting and other acts required for the maintenance
of the sign.  The display surfaces shall be kept neatly painted or posted at
all times.



 



   2.   Debris Removal.  The base of any sign erected on the ground
shall be kept clear of weeds, rubbish or other combustible material at all
times.



 



   3.   Abandoned Signage.  Ninety days after the cessation of a
business activity, service or product, the related signs shall be removed, or
the face of the signs shall be removed and replaced with blank panels or
shall be painted out.



 



   E.   Sign Illumination Limitations.  No sign shall be arranged and
illuminated in a manner that will produce a light intensity of greater than
three foot candles above ambient lighting, as measured at the property line
of the nearest residentially zoned property.



 



   F.   Combination Signs.  A sign, which is subject to more than one
classification, shall meet the requirements for the classification to which
each portion is subject.



 



   G.   Flag Lots.  For purposes of this article, flag lots containing
less than 50 feet of street frontage shall be allotted 50 feet of street
frontage for the purpose of determining the type of sign permitted and for
the allowable sign area.



 



   H.   Street Address Numbers.  No sign shall be maintained on any
property unless the street address of the property is maintained in
accordance with the provisions of Section 63.113 of this Code.



 



   I.   Sign Permit Priority Status.



 



   1.   To maintain location, area, frontage, or spacing status, signs
must be installed within six months of issuance of a building permit or prior
to expiration of any permit extension granted by the Department of Building
and Safety.



 



   2.   Where more than one permit has been issued and the effect of
those permits when considered together results in a violation of this
article, all permits except the permit with the earlier date and time of
issuance shall be invalid.



 



   J.   Relief.  Notwithstanding the provisions of Sections 12.24,
12.27, 12.28 or any other section of this Code to the contrary, no relief
from the provisions of Subsection B.9. or 11. of this section shall be
granted.  (Added by Ord. No. 180,841, Eff. 8/14/09.)



 



 



SEC. 14.4.5.  HAZARD TO TRAFFIC.



 



   A.   Prohibition.  No sign or sign support structure shall be
erected, constructed, painted or maintained, and no permit shall be issued,
if the sign or sign support structure, because of its location, size, nature
or type, constitutes a hazard to the safe and efficient operation of vehicles
upon a street or a freeway, or which creates a condition that endangers the
safety of persons or property.



 



   B.   Hazard Referral. The Department of Building and Safety shall
refer the following to the Department of Transportation for hazard evaluation
and determination prior to the issuance of a building permit:



 



   1.   All permit applications for signs that will be visible from and
are located within 500 feet of the main traveled roadway of a freeway; and



 



   2.   All other permit applications and any signs that are determined
by the Department of Building and Safety to have a potential for hazard.



 



   C.   Hazard Determination.  The Department of Transportation shall
return to the Department of Building and Safety each application so referred
to it together with a statement of its determination.  If the Department of
Transportation determines that the sign or sign support structure will
constitute a hazard, the Department of Building and Safety shall deny the
application for permit.



 



 



SEC. 14.4.6.  FREEWAY EXPOSURE.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 180,841, Eff. 8/14/09.)



 



   A.   New Signs.  No person shall erect, construct, install, paint,
maintain, and no building or electrical permit shall be issued for, any sign
or sign support structure within 2,000 feet of a freeway unless the
Department of Building and Safety has first determined that the sign will not
be viewed primarily from a main traveled roadway of a freeway or an
on-ramp/off-ramp.  However, at the termination of an off-ramp, any wall sign
located along the front line may be viewed primarily from the off-ramp.



 



   The phrase "viewed primarily from" shall mean that the message may be
seen with reasonable clarity for a greater distance by a person traveling on
the main traveled roadway of a freeway or on-ramp/off-ramp than by a person
traveling on the street adjacent to the sign.



 



   B.   Exemption.  The wall signs specified in Subdivisions 1. and 2.
below are exempt from the limitation of Subsection A. above.  These signs
shall not have moving parts or any arrangement of lights that create the
illusion of movement.



 



   1.   Identification signs identifying the building where the sign is
located, providing the area of the sign is not more than 50 square feet or is
not larger than five percent of the area of the side of the building, which
faces primarily to the freeway, whichever is greater; and



 



   2.   Wall signs on which the advertising is limited to the name of
any person, firm or corporation occupying the building, or the type of
business, services rendered, or the name of any product manufactured or sold
on the premises.  The total area of all wall signs on a building permitted
in this subdivision shall not exceed 100 square feet.  Any one sign shall
not exceed 50 square feet in area.



 



   C.   Existing Signs.  Within three years of the opening of a
freeway to public travel, all signs that existed prior to the opening of the
freeway and that are in conflict with the provisions of this section and/or
Section 14.4.5 of this Code shall be removed, or shall be rearranged or
relocated so as to eliminate any conflict with the provisions of this section
and/or Section 14.4.5 of this Code.



 



   The Department of Building and Safety and the Department of
Transportation shall determine whether or not the sign or sign support
structure is in conflict with the provisions of this section and/or Section
14.4.5 of this Code.  If it is determined that any sign or sign support
structure is in conflict with any of the provisions of this section and/or
Section 14.4.5 of this Code, then the permittee and/or other responsible
person shall be advised and shall remove, rearrange or relocate the sign or
sign support structure within this three-year period.



 



   D.   Operative Date.  This section shall become operative only to
the extent that this section is deemed constitutional upon the reversal of
the trial court decision in the case of World Wide Rush, LLC v. City of Los
Angeles, United States District Court Case No. CV 07-238 ABC.



 



 



SEC. 14.4.7.  INFORMATION SIGNS.



 



   A.   Area.  Information signs shall not exceed 25 square feet in
area.



 



   B.   Height.  Information signs shall be limited to a maximum
overall height of six feet six inches above the sidewalk grade or edge of
roadway grade nearest the sign.



 



 



SEC. 14.4.8.  MONUMENT SIGNS.



 



   A.   Area.



 



   1.   The sign area of monument signs shall not exceed 1.5 square
feet per foot of street frontage nor a maximum of 75 square feet for the sign
face visible to the same direction of traffic.



 



   2.   The combined sign area of monument signs, projecting signs,
wall signs, illuminated architectural canopy signs, pole signs, roof signs
and window signs shall not exceed four square feet for each foot of street
frontage.



 



   B.   Height.  Monument signs shall be limited to a maximum overall
height of eight feet above sidewalk grade or edge of roadway grade nearest
the sign.



 



   C.   Location.  Monument signs shall be located at least 7.5 feet
from interior lot lines and at least 15 feet from any other monument sign,
projecting sign or pole sign.  The location of monument signs shall not
interfere or present a hazard to pedestrian or vehicular traffic.



 



   D.   Shape.  Monument signs shall have a horizontal dimension equal
to or greater than their vertical dimension.



 



   E.   Projection.  Monument signs shall not project over the roof of
a building or over the building line.



 



 



SEC. 14.4.9.  PROJECTING SIGNS.



 



   A.   Permitted.  Projecting signs shall not be permitted on that
portion of a lot having less than 50 feet of street frontage.  Lots having a
street frontage of at least 50 feet may have a projecting sign for each 200
feet or fraction of that area of street frontage, if the street frontage does
not contain an existing projecting sign or a pole sign.



 



   B.   Area.



 



   1.   The sign area of projecting signs visible to the same direction
of traffic shall not exceed 25 square feet plus 1.5 square feet for each foot
of street frontage up to a maximum sign area of 300 square feet.  Any
projecting sign located at the street corner of a corner lot may use the
greater street frontage in computing area limitations.



 



   2.   The combined sign area of projecting signs, wall signs,
monument signs, illuminated architectural canopy signs, pole signs, roof
signs and window signs shall not exceed four square feet for each foot of
street frontage.



 



   C.   Height.  A projecting sign shall not be located lower than
eight feet above sidewalk grade or edge of roadway grade nearest the sign and
shall not extend above the top of the wall.



 



   D.   Location.



 



   1.   A projecting sign shall be located at least 7.5 feet from any
interior lot line.



 



   2.   A projecting sign shall be located at least 15 feet from any
other projecting sign, monument sign or pole sign.



 



   3.   The plane of the sign face of a projecting sign shall be within
15 degrees of being perpendicular to the face of the building, except at the
corner of the building.



 



   E.   Projections.  A projecting sign may project over the building
line, but shall not extend beyond the limits shown in Diagram A of this
article.  Sign projections shall fall within an area that is perpendicular
to the building line and has a width of three feet as measured parallel with
the building line.  In no event, may a projecting sign project more than
eight feet from the face of a building.



 



   EXCEPTION:  For projecting signs located above a 16-foot height and on
a lot having a street frontage greater than 50 feet, projections over the
building line may vary linearly from five feet at 50 feet to eight feet at
100 feet of street frontage.



 



 



SEC. 14.4.10.  WALL SIGNS.



 



   A.   Area.



 



   1.   The total sign area of wall signs facing a street shall not
exceed two square feet for each foot of street frontage, plus one square foot
for each foot of building frontage for a single-story building.



 



   2.   For buildings more than one story in height, the combined wall
sign area shall not exceed that permitted for a single story by more than ten
percent for each additional story.  In no event, shall the combined wall
sign area exceed by 50 percent that area permitted for a single-story
building.



 



   3.   For wall signs that are made up of individual letters that use
the wall of the building as background, the allowable sign area may be
increased by 20 percent, provided there is no change in color between the
background and the surrounding wall area.



 



   4.   The combined sign area of illuminated architectural canopy
signs, roof signs and wall signs facing the same direction shall not exceed
two square feet for each foot of street frontage, plus one square foot for
each foot of building frontage.



 



   5.   The combined sign area of wall signs, projecting signs,
monument signs, illuminated architectural canopy signs, pole signs, roof
signs and window signs shall not exceed four square feet for each foot of
street frontage.



 



   B.   Height.  A wall sign shall not extend above the top of the
wall of the building.



 



   EXCEPTION:  Where there is less than three feet between the top of the
wall and the top of a window, the wall sign may extend above the top of the
wall by a maximum of three feet.



 



   C.   Location.



 



   1.   No wall sign shall be located on a wall that faces and is
within five feet of an interior lot line.



 



   2.   Wall signs installed on a wall that faces the rear lot line and
that is located within 30 feet of property that is zoned R-3 or more
restrictive shall not be illuminated.



 



   D.   Projection.



 



   1.   No wall sign shall have a projection over any public street,
other public property or building line greater than that permitted in Diagram
A of this article.



 



   2.   No wall sign shall project more than 24 inches from the face of
the building.  If any message is placed on the edge of a wall sign, then
that portion of the wall sign shall be regulated as a projecting sign.



 



   E.   High Rise Signs.  Any wall signs located over 100 feet above
grade shall be used as identification signs only.  Identification signs
shall comprise no more than 80 percent of the width of that portion of the
building where the signs are attached.  Notwithstanding the provisions of
Subsection A. above, the area of these signs may constitute up to five
percent of the area of the wall where the signs are attached and may be in
addition to the area permitted in Subsection A. above.



 



   F.   Parking Lots.  Where a parking lot exists between a wall sign
and the street, and there is a wall between the parking lot and the street, a
portion of the total sign area permitted by this section may be used on the
wall located between the parking lot and the street so long as the sign does
not project beyond the lot line.  The sign shall be restricted to that
portion of the wall between two feet six inches and three feet six inches in
height above the finished grade at the base of the wall generally facing the
street.



 



 



SEC. 14.4.11.  ILLUMINATED ARCHITECTURAL CANOPY SIGNS.



 



   A.   Area.



 



   1.   The area of illuminated architectural canopy signs shall not
exceed two square feet for each foot of street frontage, plus one square foot
for each foot of building frontage.



 



   2.   In applying sign area limits, only the area occupied by the
message of the illuminated architectural canopy signs will be used.



 



   3.   The combined sign area of illuminated architectural canopy
signs, roof signs and wall signs facing the same direction shall not exceed
two square feet for each foot of street frontage, plus one square foot for
each foot of building frontage.



 



   4.   The combined sign area of illuminated architectural canopy
signs, projecting signs, monument signs, wall signs, pole signs, roof signs
and window signs shall not exceed four square feet for each foot of street
frontage.



 



   B.   Height.  An illuminated architectural canopy sign shall not
extend above the top of the wall of a building.



 



   C.   Clearance.  Illuminated architectural canopy signs shall have
a minimum clearance of eight feet above the sidewalk grade or edge of roadway
grade nearest the sign and shall not be located closer than two feet from the
curb of any roadway.



 



   D.   Emergency Personnel Access.  Illuminated architectural canopy
signs shall not occupy a four-foot distance along the exterior wall at one
corner of the building's street frontage and an additional four-foot distance
along every 50 feet of the building frontage.



 



   E.   Illumination.  The sign shall be internally illuminated so as
to illuminate the canopy and the exterior wall below.  The illuminated
architectural canopy sign shall bear the electric sign label of an approved
testing agency with a re-inspection service.



 



   F.   Projections.  Illuminated architectural canopy signs may
project over a building line.  However, in no event may an illuminated
architectural canopy sign project more than three feet from the face of the
building.



 



 



SEC. 14.4.12.  POLE SIGNS.



 



   A.   Permitted.  Pole signs shall not be permitted on that portion
of a lot having less than 50 feet of street frontage.  Lots having a street
frontage of at least 50 feet may have a pole sign for each 200 feet or
fraction of that area of street frontage, if the street frontage does not
contain an existing pole sign or projecting sign.



 



   B.   Area.



 



   1.   Sign area visible to the same direction of traffic shall not
exceed two square feet for each foot of street frontage, plus one square foot
for each foot of building frontage.



 



   2.   The maximum area of any one pole sign shall not exceed 400
square feet.



 



   3.   Any pole sign that is located at the street corner of a corner
lot may use the greater street frontage for area limitations.



 



   4.   The combined sign area of pole signs, projecting signs,
monument signs, illuminated architectural canopy signs, wall signs, roof
signs and window signs shall not exceed four square feet for each foot of
street frontage.



 



   C.   Height.  Height shall be measured from the nearest sidewalk or
edge of roadway grade to the top of the sign.  The overall height limitation
shall be determined by street frontage as follows:



 



   1.   25 feet for lots having 50 feet of street frontage;



 



   2.   35 feet for lots having more than 50 feet and less than 100
feet of street frontage; and



 



   3.   42 feet for lots having at least 100 feet of street frontage.



 



   Any pole sign that is located at the street corner of a corner lot may
use the greater street frontage for determining height limitations.  In no
event shall a sign exceed the height specified for the height district in
which the sign is located.



 



   D.   Location.



 



   1.   Pole signs shall be located at least ten feet from interior lot
lines; however, on corner lots and flag lots, pole signs may be located five
feet from interior lot lines.



 



   2.   A pole sign shall be located at least 15 feet from any other
pole sign, projecting sign or monument sign.



 



   3.   Pole signs shall be located so as not to interfere or present a
hazard to pedestrian or vehicular traffic.



 



   4.   Where the lower part of a pole sign is less than eight feet
above sidewalk grade or the edge of roadway grade nearest the sign, the sign
shall extend to grade or shall be installed in a planter that extends beyond
the edges of the sign and sign support structure and that is a minimum of 18
inches in height.



 



   E.   Projections.  A pole sign may project over a building line,
but shall not extend beyond the limits shown in Diagram A of this article. 
Sign projections shall fall within an area that is perpendicular to the
building line and has a width of three feet as measured parallel to the
building line.



 



   F.   Other Requirements.  A maximum of two poles shall be permitted
for any pole sign.  The maximum cross-sectional dimension of a pole shall
not exceed ten percent of the overall height of the sign.



 



 



SEC. 14.4.13.  ROOF SIGNS.



 



   A.   Permitted.  Roof signs shall be permitted only when placed
directly upon a roof that slopes downward toward and extends to or over the
top of an exterior wall.



 



   B.   Area.



 



   1.   Sign area shall not exceed two square feet for each foot of
street frontage, plus one square foot for each foot of building frontage.



 



   2.   The maximum area of any one roof sign shall not exceed 300
square feet.



 



   3.   The combined area of roof signs, illuminated architectural
canopy signs and wall signs facing the same direction shall not exceed two
square feet for each foot of street frontage, plus one square foot for each
foot of building frontage.



 



   4.   The combined sign area of wall signs, projecting signs,
monument signs, illuminated architectural canopy signs, pole signs, roof
signs and window signs shall not exceed four square feet for each foot of
street frontage.



 



   C.   Height.  The top of the roof sign shall be located at least
two feet below the ridge of the roof. 



 



   D.   Location.



 



   1.   Roof signs shall be located at least ten feet from interior lot
lines.



 



   2.   Roof signs shall be located at least two feet from the edge of
the roof.



 



   3.   The plane of the sign face of a roof sign shall be
approximately parallel to the face of the building.



 



 



SEC. 14.4.14.  WINDOW SIGNS.



 



   A.   Area.  The total area of all window signs shall not exceed ten
percent of the area of the window.



 



   B.   Combined Area.  The combined sign area of wall signs,
projecting signs, monument signs, illuminated architectural canopy signs,
pole signs, roof signs and window signs shall not exceed four square feet for
each foot of street frontage.



 



 



SEC. 14.4.15.  MARQUEE SIGNS.



 



   A.   General Requirements.  Marquee signs shall comply with the
requirements set forth in Section 3102 of the CBC and the following
provisions of this Code:  Sections 14.4.3 A.; 14.4.4 A.; 14.4.5; 14.4.6;
91.6205; and 91.6207.



 



   B.   Location.  Signs shall not be attached to any portion of the
marquee except on the periphery.  Wall signs on the periphery shall not
extend above or below the periphery.  Cloth or banner signs or drop-roll
curtains may be suspended below the exterior periphery and extend within
seven feet of the grade. 



 



 



SEC. 14.4.16.  TEMPORARY SIGNS.



 



   A.   Permit Required.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this
article, a building permit shall be required for a temporary sign, pennant,
banner, ribbon, streamer or spinner, other than one that contains a
political, ideological or other noncommercial message.  The permit
application shall specify the dates being requested for authorized
installation and the proposed location. 



 



   B.   Area.



 



   1.   The combined sign area of temporary signs shall not exceed two
square feet for each foot of street frontage.



 



   2.   The combined sign area of temporary signs, when placed upon a
window and any other window signs shall not exceed a maximum of ten percent
of the window area. 



 



   C.   Time Limit.



 



   1.   Temporary signs that require a permit shall be removed within
30 days of installation and shall not be reinstalled for a period of 30 days
of the date of removal of the previous sign.  The installation of temporary
signs shall not exceed a total of 90 days in any calendar year.



 



   2.   Temporary signs that do not require a permit shall be removed
within 30 days of the date of installation of the sign.



 



   D.   Location.  Temporary signs, including those that do not
require a building permit, may be tacked, pasted or otherwise temporarily
affixed to windows and/or on the walls of buildings, barns, sheds or fences. 



 



   E.   Construction.  Temporary signs may contain or consist of
posters, pennants, ribbons, streamers or spinners.  Temporary signs may be
made of paper or any other material.  If the temporary sign is made of
cloth, it shall be flameproofed when the aggregate area exceeds 100 square
feet.  Every temporary cloth sign shall be supported and attached with
stranded cable of 1/16-inch minimum diameter or by other methods as approved
by the Department of Building and Safety.



 



 



SEC. 14.4.17.  TEMPORARY SIGNS ON TEMPORARY CONSTRUCTION WALLS.



 



   A.   Permit Required.  A building permit shall be required for a
temporary sign on a temporary construction wall.  Temporary signs on
temporary construction walls shall comply with the construction requirements
of Section 14.4.16 E.



 



   For purposes of this section, the term “applicant” shall mean the
owner of the sign company or, if there is no sign company, the owner of the
property.



 



   B.   Area.  Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 14.4.16 B.1.
and 2. of this Code, signs placed on temporary construction walls, and/or
solid wood fences surrounding vacant lots pursuant to the terms of this
section shall not extend above the top of the wall or fence and shall comply
with the following:



 



   1.   The combined sign area of temporary signs shall not exceed
eight square feet for each foot of street frontage.



 



   2.   Individual signs shall not exceed a sign area of 250 square
feet.



 



   3.   Signs may be grouped to form a maximum sign area of 250 square
feet.



 



   4.   Signs or groups of signs having an area of 250 square feet
shall be separated from any other sign on the temporary construction walls
and/or solid wood fences surrounding vacant lots by at least ten feet
measured horizontally.



 



   C.   Time Limit.  Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 14.4.16
C.1. and 2. of this Code, signs placed on temporary construction walls,
and/or solid wood fences surrounding vacant lots pursuant to the terms of
this section shall be allowed to remain for as long as the building permits
associated with the construction site remain in effect or for a period of two
years, whichever is less.  Building permits for signs on solid wood fences
surrounding vacant lots, which are not construction sites, shall be issued
for a time period not to exceed one year.  The Department of Building and
Safety shall grant a new building permit for a period equal to the original
building permit term upon the receipt of (i) an application for a new
building permit, (ii) the payment of the building permit fee and (iii) a
written statement from the Director of the Office of Community Beautification
consenting to the new building permit.



 



   D.   Height.  Signs may only be placed to a maximum height of eight
feet.



 



   E.   Location.  Temporary signs placed on the exterior surfaces of
any temporary construction walls, and/or solid wood fences surrounding vacant
lots are limited to lots located in a commercial or industrial zone.



 



   F.   Special Requirements for Signs on Temporary Construction Walls,
and/or Solid Wood Fences Surrounding Vacant Lots.



 



   1.   Review by the Office of Community Beautification.  At any time
after the issuance of a building permit under this section and upon request
of the Council district office of the Council district in which the site or
lot is located, the Office of Community Beautification of the Department of
Public Works (Office of Community Beautification) shall investigate an area
consisting of a 500-foot radius around the permitted site or lot to determine
whether there exists a public nuisance due to the presence of graffiti and/or
posters/handbills on light poles, utility poles, bus stops, and any other
illegal postings on public property.



 



   If the Office of Community Beautification cannot establish that the
area constitutes a public nuisance because of the presence of graffiti,
posters/handbills and any other illegal postings on public property within a
500-foot radius around the permitted site or lot, then the Office of
Community Beautification shall expand the radius around the site or lot in
250-foot increments, up to a maximum radius of 1500 feet.  If the Office of
Community Beautification finds the existence of a public nuisance on public
property within the expanded radius area beyond the original 500-foot radius,
then it shall require the applicant to abate the public nuisance in the
expanded radius area in accordance with Subdivision 3., below.



 



   2.   Notification of Locations for Placement of Signs.  Within ten
days after the issuance of the building permit, the applicant shall provide
written notification to the Office of Community Beautification and the
Council district office of the Council district in which the construction
site or vacant lot is located.  The notification shall contain the name and
address of the applicant and the property address where the signs will be
placed.  The notification to the Office of Community Beautification shall
include a copy of the applicant's contract with the property owner to post
signs at the specified location.



 



   3.   Nuisance Abatement.  It shall be the applicant's
responsibility to clean and maintain free from graffiti public property and
rights-of-way within an area consisting of a 500-foot radius or any expanded
radius required by the Office of Community Beautification around the
permitted site or lot.  The applicant shall patrol the abatement area every
24 hours to search for graffiti and remove any graffiti within 24 hours of
its discovery.  The removal of graffiti shall include, but not be limited
to, spray paint on walls, poles, and fences on public property.  In
addition, the applicant shall also be responsible for removing any
posters/handbills on light poles, utility poles, bus stops, and any other
illegal postings on public property.  At the time of graffiti removal, the
applicant shall also remove any trash, debris or rubbish from the public
sidewalks within the abatement area around the permitted site.  The Office
of Community Beautification shall enforce the provisions of this subsection.



 



   4.   Permit Revocation.  Any building permit issued pursuant to
this section may be revoked by the Department of Building and Safety for any
of the following reasons, provided a written and signed notification of the
applicant's failure to comply with Paragraphs (a), (d), (e) or (f) of this
subsection is sent to the Department of Building and Safety by the Director
of the Office of Community Beautification:



 



   (a)   Failure by the applicant to maintain the temporary
construction wall and/or solid wood fence surrounding a vacant lot free from
graffiti.



 



   (b)   Failure by the applicant to comply with the terms of the
permit.



 



   (c)   Failure by the applicant to maintain the bond required in
Subsection A. of this section.



 



   (d)   Failure by the applicant to eradicate graffiti within a
500-foot radius or any expanded radius required by the Office of Community
Beautification of the temporary construction wall, and/or solid wood fence
surrounding a vacant lot within 24 hours of receiving notification of the
presence of graffiti from the Office of Community Beautification or the
Council staff in the Council district in which the construction site or
vacant lot is located.



 



   (e)   Failure by the applicant to remove posters/handbills placed on
light poles, utility poles, bus stops and any other illegal postings on
public property within a 500-foot radius or any expanded radius required by
the Office of Community Beautification of the temporary construction wall,
and/or solid wood fence surrounding a vacant lot, within 24 hours of
receiving notification of the presence of posters/handbills or other illegal
postings from the Office of Community Beautification or the Council staff in
the Council district in which the construction site or vacant lot is located.



 



   (f)   Failure by the applicant, at the time of graffiti removal, to
remove trash, debris or rubbish from the public sidewalks within the
abatement area around the permitted site.



 



   5.   Removal of Signs.  If the Department of Building and Safety
revokes the building permit allowing signs on temporary construction walls,
and/or solid wood fences surrounding vacant lots, then any signs placed on
the temporary construction walls and/or solid wood fences surrounding vacant
lots shall be removed by the applicant within 72 hours after receipt of
written notification.



 



   6.   Public Nuisance.  Any signs remaining on temporary
construction walls, and/or solid wood fences surrounding vacant lots after
the building permit is revoked are deemed to be a public nuisance that can be
abated by utilizing the procedure contained in Section 91.8904, et seq., of
the Code.



 



   7.   Office of Community Beautification.  The Office of Community
Beautification is hereby designated the authorized representative of the City
for the purpose of enforcing and implementing the provisions of Sections
91.8904.1.2 and 91.8307 of this Code to remove the nuisances described in
this section.



 



 



SEC. 14.4.18.  OFF-SITE SIGNS.



 



   A.   Area.  The sign area of a single face shall not exceed 800
square feet.



 



   B.   Height.



 



   1.   The height to the top of the off-site sign shall be limited to
a maximum of 42 feet above the sidewalk grade or edge of roadway grade
nearest the sign, except that a sign that is more than 80 percent above a
roof of a building may extend to the top of the sign a maximum of 30 feet
above the surface of the roof under the sign.



 



   2.   In no event shall the height to the top of the off-site sign
exceed a height greater than that height specified for the height district in
which the sign is located, or a height of 60 feet above the sidewalk grade or
edge of roadway grade nearest the sign, whichever is more restrictive.



 



   3.   The bottom of the off-site sign shall be at least eight feet
above the sidewalk grade or edge of roadway grade nearest the sign.



 



   C.   Location.



 



   1.   No portion of an off-site sign with a sign area greater than 80
square feet shall be placed within 200 feet of a residentially zoned lot,
which is located on the same side of the same street as the lot on which the
sign is placed.  However, where a lot has two or more street frontages, a
sign may be located on that street frontage, which is not on the same street
as the residentially zoned lot; provided the sign and sign support structure
are placed in that half of the lot that is the farthest from the street
frontage on which the residentially zoned lot is located.



 



   2.   No portion of an off-site sign or sign support structure shall
be located in that half of a lot located farthest from the street frontage
when residentially zoned property is located to the rear of that street
frontage.



 



   3.   Off-site signs are not permitted along that portion of a lot
having a street frontage of less than 50 feet.



 



   4.   No more than four off-site signs shall be located at the
intersection of two or more streets when the off-site signs are located
within 150 feet of the intersection of two street frontages.



 



   5.   An off-site sign face shall not be located within one foot of
an interior lot line.



 



   D.   Frontage Determination on Lots with Lot Lines Adjoining More
Than One Street.



 



   1.   An off-site sign shall be considered to be on a single street
for purposes of Sections 14.4.18 A. and 14.4.18 D. of this Code if the sign
and its support structure are located entirely on the side of the bisecting
line closest to that street and the sign face is placed at the same angle as
the perpendicular line or at an angle not to exceed 20 degrees from either
side of the perpendicular line as shown on Diagram C of this article.



 



   2.   An off-site sign located on a through lot shall be located on a
single street if the sign and its support structure are located entirely on
that half of the lot closest to the lot line adjoining that street.



 



   Any off-site sign not in conformance with either Subdivision 1. or 2.
above shall be considered to be located on more than one street frontage.



 



   E.   Spacing.



 



   1.   An off-site sign, which is either single-faced or parallel
double-faced, shall be spaced as specified in Table No. B of this article
from any other existing or previously permitted off-site sign, which is
single-faced or parallel double-faced.



 



   2.   For any double-faced off-site sign, the spacing requirements
shall be based on the area of the largest sign face.



 



   3.   For double-faced off-site signs whose faces are not parallel,
the spacing between any proposed, permitted or existing off-site sign shall
be determined by the following formula:



 



 


D

 
=
 
S
 
 
1+
 
(B – 5)
 



90




 



   WHERE:



 



D=   required spacing between signs, in feet.



 



S=   sign spacing determined from Table No. B below in feet.



 



B=   widest edge separation of sign faces in feet.



 



   4.   Spacing shall be measured between off-site signs that are
located on the same side of the same street.  Spacing shall be measured from
a line that is perpendicular to the building line and that passes through a
point on the building line that is closest to the nearest sign face edge. 
Spacing shall be measured along the center line of the street.



 



   F.   Double-faced Off-Site Signs.



 



   1.   Off-site signs may be either single or double-faced.



 



   2.   For double-faced off-site signs whose faces are parallel, the
distance between sign faces shall not exceed six feet.



 



   3.   For double-faced off-site signs whose faces are not parallel,
the distance between sign faces at their widest point shall not exceed 35
feet.  The separation of sign faces at their closest point shall not exceed
six feet.  In no event shall the angle between sign faces exceed 37 degrees.



 



   G.   Projection.  Off-site signs shall not project beyond the
building line.



 



   H.   Covering.  The backs of off-site signs exposed to public view
shall be covered with a finished surface or material and shall be properly
maintained.



 



   I.   Other Requirements.



 



   1.   A maximum of two poles shall be permitted for any off-site
sign.  The maximum cross-sectional dimension of a pole shall not exceed ten
percent of the overall height of the sign.



 



   2.   Off-site sign supports shall be structurally independent of a
building. 



 



   3.   Sign support structures must be located directly under the sign
face as viewed from the front of the sign.  The maximum horizontal distance
between the center of the sign support structure and the sign face shall not
exceed ten feet.



 



 



SEC. 14.4.19.  AWNING SIGNS.



 



   No sign shall be placed on any portion of an awning except the
valance.  The sign area is limited to a maximum of 12 inches in height on
the portion of the valance that is parallel to the building face, and only
when the awning complies with all applicable provisions of Sections 91.3202
and  91.3202.3.1 of this Code.  Signs are not permitted on awnings with a
valance above a height of 14 feet as measured from the nearest sidewalk or
edge of roadway grade to the top of the valance. 



 



 



SEC. 14.4.20.  ORIGINAL ART MURALS, VINTAGE ORIGINAL ART MURALS, AND PUBLIC
ART INSTALLATIONS.



   (Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 182,706, Eff. 10/12/13.)



 



   An Original Art Mural that conforms to the requirements of Section
22.119 of the Los Angeles Administrative Code is not considered a sign and
therefore is not subject to the provisions of this Article or any other
ordinance that regulates signs.  Any supposed "mural" that does not conform
to the requirements of Section 22.119 of the Los Angeles Administrative Code
shall be considered a sign and subject to the provisions of this Article or
any other ordinance that regulates signs and digital displays.  A Public Art
Installation registered pursuant to the requirements of Section 19.85.4 of
the Los Angeles Administrative Code or the requirements of Section 91.107.4.6
of the Los Angeles Municipal Code is not a sign, but is subject to Section
14.4.4 E. of this Article and any other applicable zoning and land use
regulations set forth in the Los Angeles Municipal Code.  A building permit
from the Department of Building and Safety is required for a new hand-tiled
or digitally printed Original Art Mural or any Public Art Installation.



 



   Severability.  If any part, sentence, phrase, clause, term or word in
Section 14.4.2 or Section 14.4.20 of this Code relating to Original Art
Murals is declared invalid or unconstitutional by a valid court judgment or
decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, the declaration of such
unconstitutionality shall not affect the constitutionality or lawfulness of
the remainder of this Code, the Los Angeles Administrative Code or any other
City regulation regulating signage, billboards or Original Art Murals.



 



 




DIAGRAM A




 









 



 



 




TABLE NO. B
SPACING REQUIREMENTS BETWEEN OFF-SITE SIGNS




 



 



 

Sign Area

 

PROPOSED SIGN




Less than 80 sq. ft.

 

80 sq. ft. to 300 sq. ft.

 

Greater than 300 sq. ft.




Existing or Permitted Sign

 

Less than 80 sq. ft.

 

100 ft.

 

100 ft.

 

200 ft.




80 sq. ft. to 300 sq. ft.

 

100 ft.

 

300 ft.

 

300 ft.




Greater than 300 sq. ft.

 

200 ft.

 

300 ft.

 

600 ft.




 



 




DIAGRAM C




 









 



 



 



ARTICLE 4.5
TRANSFER OF FLOOR AREA RIGHTS – CENTRAL CITY COMMUNITY PLAN AND CITY CENTER
REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT AREAS



 




(Article and Title Amended in Entirety, Ord. No. 181,574, Eff. 3/27/11.)




 



 



Section



14.5.1   Scope.



14.5.2   Purpose.



14.5.3   Definitions.



14.5.4   Prohibition.



14.5.5   Early Consultation Session.



14.5.6   Approval of Transfers - Authority and Procedures for Projects
Involving Transfers of 50,000 Square Feet or Greater.



14.5.7   Director’s Determination.



14.5.8   General Requirements.



14.5.9   Public Benefit Payment.



14.5.10   TFAR Transfer Payment.



14.5.11   Payments and Vesting.



14.5.12   Public Benefit Payment Trust Fund.



 



 



SEC. 14.5.1.  SCOPE.



 



   A.   This article implements the Transfer of Floor Area Rights
(TFAR) in the Central City TFAR Area, as defined herein, and as permitted by
Sections 512.4 and 512.5 of the City Center Redevelopment Plan during the
period of effectiveness of said plan.



 



   B.   This article provides the exclusive procedure to Transfer Floor
Area Rights for all Projects involving any single Transfer of Floor Area
Rights within the Central City TFAR Area.  This article establishes separate
procedures for transfers of less than 50,000 square feet and transfers of
50,000 square feet or greater.



 



   C.   This article facilitates the implementation of the Central City
Community Plan and the City Center Redevelopment Plans.



 



   D.   This article provides the procedure for allocating Public
Benefit Payments and TFAR Transfer Payments derived from the Transfer of
Floor Area Rights.



 



 



SEC. 14.5.2.  PURPOSE.



 



   It is the purpose of this article to establish standards and approval
procedures for the Transfer of Floor Area Rights in the Central City TFAR
Area; to effect maximum coordination between the Community Redevelopment
Agency and the City; to provide for the keeping of records of available Floor
Area Rights within the Central City TFAR Area; to provide for an accounting
of allocations of Public Benefit Payments and TFAR Transfer Payments derived
from the Transfer of Floor Area Rights; and to facilitate those Transfers
that generate Public Benefits.



 



 



SEC. 14.5.3.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   The following terms, whenever used in this article, shall apply only to
the Transfer of Floor Area Rights procedures in this article and shall be
defined as set forth below.  Other terms used in this article shall have the
meanings set forth in Section 12.03 of this Code, if defined there.



 



   Administrator means the chief executive officer of the Agency and his
or her designee.



 



   Agency means the Community Redevelopment Agency of the City of Los
Angeles.



 



   Agency Board means the Board of Commissioners of the Community
Redevelopment Agency of the City of Los Angeles.



 



   Applicant means the owner of a Receiver Site who has submitted a
proposed Transfer Plan to the Agency or the Department of City Planning.



 



   Appraisal means an economic valuation of the Receiver Site submitted by
the Applicant, which (a) has been prepared by an MAI appraiser with at least
five years experience in appraising property in the City and (b) sets forth
the fair market value of the Receiver Site (i) as of the date the application
was submitted and (ii) as if the Receiver Site were vacant and used for its
highest and best use under all then current zoning and planning restrictions
and Agency policies affecting the Receiver Site.



 



   Buildable Area means the same as Lot Area, with the following
exception: for the purposes of computing the maximum Floor Area Rights
available through the approval of a Transfer Plan for a Transit Area Mixed
Use Project, as defined herein, the buildable area shall include the lot area
plus the area between the exterior lot lines and the centerline of any
abutting public right-of-way.



 



   Central City TFAR Area means those portions of the Central City
Community Plan Area, including portions of the City Center Redevelopment
Project Area, as shown on Map A, dated April 30, 2010, and attached to
Council File No. 10-1175, generally bounded by: U.S. Highway 101 on the
north; Alameda Street, Los Angeles Street, San Pedro Street, and Main Street
on the east; the Santa Monica Freeway (Interstate 10) on the south; and the
Harbor Freeway (110 Freeway) and Hill Street on the west.



 



   City Council means the City Council of the City of Los Angeles.



 



   Commission means the City Planning Commission of the City of Los
Angeles.



 



   Community Plan means the Central City Community Plan, a part of the
General Plan of the City of Los Angeles, and including amendments to the
Community Plan.



 



   Department means the Department of City Planning.



 



   Donor Site means a site within the Central City TFAR Area from which
Floor Area Rights are transferred pursuant to the provisions of this article.



 



   Floor Area Deviation means the Transfer of Floor Area of less than
50,000 square feet as determined by the Director.



 



   Floor Area Ratio (FAR) means the Floor Area of a building divided by
the Lot Area of the lot (prior to any dedications) upon which it is
located.  Notwithstanding the above, the maximum Floor Area Ratio of a
Transit Area Mixed Use Project shall mean the Floor Area of a building
divided by the Buildable Area.



 



   Floor Area Rights means the ability to construct additional Floor Area
within a Project, pursuant to an approved Transfer Plan, in excess of the
amount of Floor Area that Project would be allowed based on its Lot Area, or,
in the case of a Transit Area Mixed Use Project, the Buildable Area.



 



   High-Density Floor Area Ratio Factor means a denominator of six and is
used in calculating the amount of any TFAR Transfer Payment.



 



   Lot Area means the total horizontal area within the lot lines of a lot
(prior to any dedication).



 



   Project means a building or structure or structural alteration or
enlargement of an existing building or structure on a Receiver Site within
the Central City TFAR Area.



 



   Public Benefits means amenities provided to the public including, but
not limited to, providing for affordable housing; public open space; historic
preservation; recreational, cultural, community and public facilities; job
training and outreach programs; local hiring; payment of prevailing wages;
affordable child care; streetscape improvements; sustainability features;
public arts programs; homeless services programs; or public transportation
improvements.



 



   Public Benefit Payment means that dollar sum established by the
application of the formula set forth in Section 14.5.9 of this Code.



 



   Public Benefit Payment Trust Fund means that certain interest-bearing
Trust Account administered by the City Clerk's Office designated as CB Public
Benefit Program Fund 5158, from which funds may be distributed as set forth
in Section 14.5.12 of this Code.



 



   Receiver Site means a site within the Central City TFAR Area, which
receives Floor Area Rights pursuant to the provisions of this article.



 



   Redevelopment Plan means the City Center Redevelopment Project adopted
by Ordinance No. 174,593 on May 15, 2002, or as subsequently amended.



 



   Redevelopment Project Area means the City Center Redevelopment Project
Areas, as described in the City Center Redevelopment Plans.



 



   TFAR Transfer Payment means the payment made by the owner of a Receiver
Site in exchange for the Agency's or City's Transfer of Floor Area Rights to
a Receiver Site pursuant to the valuation method set forth in Section 14.5.10
of this Code.



 



   Transfer means the conveyance of unused allowable Floor Area of a lot
from a Donor Site to a Receiver Site, which is approved in accordance with
the requirements of this article.



 



   Transfer Plan means a plan that identifies and describes the Donor
Site(s), Receiver Site(s), the amount of Floor Area Rights to be transferred
and the Public Benefit Payment.



 



   Transit Area Mixed Use Project means any Project or portion of a
Project in the Central City TFAR Area that: (1) provides floor area for at
least two different land uses, such as commercial office and commercial
retail, commercial office and multi-family residential, or commercial retail
and hotel, or any other combination of uses; (2) is located within 1500 feet
of a fixed rail transit station, as measured from the exterior lot line to
the nearest station entrance; and (3) meets the standards and guidelines in
the Downtown Design Guide.



 



 



SEC. 14.5.4.  PROHIBITION.



 



   A.   No building permit shall be issued for a Project on any lot
within the Central City TFAR Area, which is not located within the City
Center Redevelopment Project Area, that exceeds a Floor Area Ratio greater
than 6:1 or 3:1, as set forth by the applicable zoning and in the Community
Plan, except for the following:



 



   1.   Development permitted by Section 12.23 A. of this Code, when in
conformance with the applicable height district designations of the zoning
and the Community Plan; and



 



   2.    Development permitted as a result of a Transfer of Floor Area
Rights or a Director's Determination for a Floor Area Deviation approved
pursuant to this article; and



 



   3.    Development permitted as a result of a Transfer of Floor Area
Rights pursuant to Section 418, or a density variation pursuant to Section
437, of the former Central Business District Redevelopment Plan, approved by
the Agency Board or Commission prior to June 21, 1988; and



 



   4.   Development permitted as a result of a Transfer of Floor Area
Rights or density variation of less than 50,000 square feet, approved by the
Agency Board or the Commission, pursuant to the former Central Business
District Redevelopment Plan prior to amendments adopted May 1, 2002, or the
Amended Central Business District Redevelopment Plan prior to its expiration
on July 18, 2010; and



 



   5.    Residential Projects that exceed the number of dwelling units
or Floor Area permitted by the zoning or the Community Plan as a result of a
density or Floor Area bonus received pursuant to Sections 12.22 A.25., 12.22
A.29., 12.24 U.26. or 12.24 U.27. of this Code.



 



   B.   No building permit shall be issued for a Project, on any lot
within the City Center Redevelopment Project Area, which exceeds a Floor Area
Ratio greater than 6:1 or 3:1, as set forth with respect to a particular lot
in Section 512 of the Redevelopment Plan and in the Community Plan, except
for the following:



 



   1.   Development permitted by Sections 512.2 (Rehabilitation and/or
Remodeling of Existing Buildings) and 512.3 (Replacement of Existing
Buildings) of the Redevelopment Plan, when in conformance with the applicable
height district designations of the Redevelopment Plan and the Community
Plan; and



 



   2.   Development permitted as a result of a Transfer of Floor Area
Rights approved pursuant to this article; and



 



   3.   Development permitted as a result of a Transfer of Floor Area
Rights pursuant to Section 512.7, or density variation of less than 50,000
square feet, approved by the Agency Board or Commission pursuant to Sections
512.6 and 520 of the Redevelopment Plan; and



 



   4.   Residential Projects that exceed the number of dwelling units
or Floor Area permitted by the zoning or the Community Plan as a result of a
density or Floor Area bonus received pursuant to Sections 12.22 A.25., 12.22
A.29., 12.24 U.26. or 12.24 U.27. of this Code.



 



 



SEC. 14.5.5.  EARLY CONSULTATION SESSION.



 



   For Receiver Sites within the Central City TFAR Area, which are not
located within the City Center Redevelopment Project Area, Department staff
shall concurrently consult with the Mayor's Office, the City Council Office
for the City Council District in which the Receiver Site is located, and the
Chief Legislative Analyst, at the earliest reasonable point in the design and
development of any Project applying for a Transfer.



 



   For Receiver Sites within the City Center Redevelopment Project Area,
Agency staff shall concurrently consult with the Department of City Planning,
the Mayor's Office, the City Council Office for the City Council District in
which the Receiver Site is located, and the Chief Legislative Analyst, at the
earliest reasonable point in the design and development of any Project
involving a Transfer.



 



   In either case, this consultation shall be known as an Early
Consultation Session.  The Early Consultation Session shall be used to
identify any development issues regarding Project approval, including but not
limited to: parking and transportation requirements, Transfers, and Public
Benefits.  An early consultation shall be accomplished at the earliest
reasonable time prior to approval of a Transfer Plan for the Project.



 



 



SEC. 14.5.6.  APPROVAL OF TRANSFERS - AUTHORITY AND PROCEDURES FOR PROJECTS
INVOLVING TRANSFERS OF 50,000 SQUARE FEET OR GREATER.



 



   The City Council, acting on recommendations of the Commission or Agency
Board, as required, shall have the authority to grant Transfers of Floor Area
Rights of 50,000 square feet or greater.  A Transfer to any Project in the
City Center Redevelopment Project Area shall not, by itself, require an Owner
Participation Agreement or Disposition and Development Agreement, or other
similar agreement that involves the application of Agency policies.



 



   A.   Projects Involving a Transfer on a Receiver Site within the
Central City TFAR Area which is not Located within the City Center
Redevelopment Project Area.



 



   1.   Application.  An Applicant seeking a Transfer shall file a
request for approval of a Transfer with the Department on a form prescribed
by the Director of Planning.  The request shall be accompanied by a proposed
Transfer Plan.  The Transfer Plan shall be the only mechanism for approving
the Transfer for any Project involving a Transfer of Floor Area Rights of
50,000 square feet or greater, pursuant to this article.  The Department
shall forward a copy of the application and Transfer Plan to the Mayor's
Office, the City Council Office for the City Council District in which the
Receiver Site is located, and the Chief Legislative Analyst within 7 calendar
days of receiving the application.  For purposes of this section, an
application shall be deemed to be complete when the Department has received
sufficient information with which to prepare an initial study to assess the
environmental impacts of the proposed Project.



 



   2.   Action by Commission.  The Director shall issue a report to
the Commission recommending approval, approval with conditions or disapproval
of the request for Transfer, including the Public Benefit Payment and the
TFAR Transfer Payment to be provided, with the recommendation to be based
solely upon the degree that the Transfer Plan complies with the findings and
conditions set forth in this section.  After reviewing the Director's
report, the Commission must make the following findings in order to recommend
approval to the City Council:



 



   (a)   Findings.



 



   (1)   The increase in Floor Area generated by the proposed Transfer
is appropriate with respect to location and access to public transit and
other modes of transportation, compatible with other existing and proposed
developments and the City's supporting infrastructure, or otherwise
appropriate for the long-term development of the Central City;



 



   (2)   The Transfer serves the public interest; and



 



   (3)   The Transfer is in conformance with the Community Plan and any
other relevant policy documents previously adopted by the Commission or the
City Council.



 



   (b)   Conditions of Approval.



 



   (1)   The Transfer shall provide a Public Benefit Payment, and, if
applicable, a TFAR Transfer payment in conformance, respectively, with
Section 14.5.9 and Section 14.5.10 of this Code;



 



   (2)   Transfer must comply with any urban design standards and
guidelines adopted by the City Planning Commission for the area, including
the Downtown Design Guide, and other applicable design guidelines;



 



   (3)   The Commission may require additional conditions for the
Transfer to ensure consistency with the purposes and objectives of the
Community Plan.



 



   (c)   Commission Hearing.



 



   (1)   A public hearing on the proposed Transfer for a Project shall
be held by the Commission in accordance with the procedures set forth in
Section 12.24 D. of this Code.



 



   (d)   Time for the Commission to Act.



 



   (1)    Commission shall act upon any proposed Transfer for a Project
within 75 calendar days from the date of submittal to it of the Director's
report and recommendation on the Transfer Plan.  This time limit may be
extended by mutual consent of the Applicant and the Commission.  The
Commission shall forthwith transmit a copy of its action to the Applicant and
any other person requesting notice in writing.  If the Commission fails to
act on the proposed Transfer within 75 calendar days, the request shall be
automatically submitted to the City Council for its action.



 



   3.   Appeals.



 



   (a)   Filing of an Appeal.  If the Commission recommends
disapproval of a request, in whole or in part, its action on any disapproved
portion shall be final unless an appeal is taken to the City Council.  The
Applicant may appeal any disapproval within 15 calendar days after the
Commission mails its decision to the Applicant by filing the appeal with the
City Clerk on a form prescribed by the Commission.



 



   (b)   Appellate Decision - Public Hearing and Notice.  Before the
Council acts on the appeal, it shall hold a public hearing.  The City Clerk
shall set the matter for hearing, giving notice by mail of the time, place
and purpose of the hearing to the applicant and to any interested party who
has requested in writing to be so notified.  The notice shall be mailed at
least ten calendar days prior to the hearing.



 



   (c)   Time for Appellate Decision.  The Council shall make its
decision within 75 calendar days after the expiration of the appeal period. 
The 75 day time limit to act on an appeal may be extended by mutual written
consent of the applicant and the Council.  If the Council fails to act
within this time limit, the failure shall constitute a denial of the
application or disapproval of the initial request.



 



   B.   Projects Involving a Transfer on a Receiver Site within the
City Center Redevelopment Project Area.



 



   1.   Application.  An Applicant seeking a Transfer shall file a
request for approval of a Transfer with the Agency on a form prescribed
jointly by the Director of Planning and the Administrator.  The request
shall be accompanied by a proposed Transfer Plan.  The Transfer Plan shall
be the only mechanism for approving the Transfer for any Project involving a
Transfer of Floor Area Rights of 50,000 square feet or greater, pursuant to
this article.  The Agency shall forward a copy of the application and
Transfer Plan to the Mayor's Office, the City Council Office for the City
Council District in which the Receiver Site is located, the Department of
City Planning and the Chief Legislative Analyst within 7 calendar days of
receiving the completed application.



 



   2.   Action by Agency Board.  The Administrator shall issue a
report recommending approval, approval with conditions or disapproval of the
request for Transfer, including the Public Benefit Payment and the TFAR
Transfer Payment to be provided, with the recommendation to be based solely
upon the degree that the Transfer Plan complies with the findings and
conditions set forth in this section.  After reviewing the Administrator's
report, the Agency Board shall make the following findings in order to
approve a Transfer:



 



   (a)   Findings.



 



   (1)   The increase in Floor Area generated by the proposed Transfer
is appropriate with respect to location and access to public transit and
other modes of transportation, compatible with other existing and proposed
developments and the City's supporting infrastructure, or otherwise
determined to be appropriate for the long-term development of the Central
City;



 



   (2)   The Project is consistent with the purposes and objectives of
the Redevelopment Plan;



 



   (3)   The Transfer serves the public interest by complying with the
requirements of Section 14.5.9 of this Code; and;



 



   (4)   The Transfer is in conformance with the Community Plan and any
other relevant policy documents previously adopted by the Commission or the
City Council.



 



   (b)   Condition of Approval.



 



   (1)   The Transfer shall provide a Public Benefit Payment, and, if
applicable, a TFAR Transfer payment in conformance, respectively, with
Section 14.5.9 and Section 14.5.10 of this Code.



 



   (2)   The Transfer must comply with any applicable urban design
standards and guidelines adopted for the area, including the Downtown Design
Guide.



 



   3.   Review of Agency Board's Disapproval or Failure to Act.  If
the Agency Board disapproves a request for approval of a Transfer for a
Project or fails to act on the request within 12 months after the submission
of a completed request for approval of a Transfer to the Agency, the
Applicant may request review of the action of the Agency Board to the
Commission, the initial decision-maker for the City, in accordance with this
subdivision.  For purposes of this subdivision, a request to file an
application shall be deemed to be complete when the Agency has received
sufficient information with which to assess the environmental impacts of the
proposed Project.



 



   (a)   A request for review shall be filed with the Commission no
later than 20 calendar days after the earlier of: (i) the date of disapproval
of a request for approval of a Transfer, or (ii) 12 months after the
submission to the Agency of a completed request for approval of a Transfer.



 



   (b)   The request for review shall include the proposed Transfer
Plan for a Project, and any documentation received by the Applicant from the
Agency Board disapproving the request for approval of the Transfer.  The
request for review shall specify in detail the grounds for the review.  The
request for review shall include other information as the Commission may
request.



 



   (c)   The Commission shall act on the request for review within 75
calendar days after receipt of the request for review.  The Commission shall
determine whether the Agency Board acted reasonably, in light of all the
circumstances, in disapproving or failing to act on the request for approval
of a Transfer.  In the event the Commission fails to act within 75 calendar
days after receipt of the request for review, the request for review shall be
automatically submitted to the City Council for its action.



 



   (d)   If the Commission finds for the Applicant on any matter in
dispute, the Commission shall remand the matter to the Agency Board for
further action consistent with the Commission's decision.  The Commission
may impose conditions on the remanded request as it deems necessary to
accomplish the purposes and objectives of this article.  Upon remand, the
Agency Board shall complete its proceedings with respect to the proposed
Transfer in a manner that is consistent with the Commission's action on the
matter, including any additional conditions it deems necessary.  If the
Agency Board fails to approve the request for approval of the Transfer within
90 calendar days after the Commission remands the matter to it, the Applicant
may submit the request directly to the Commission without Agency Board
approval.  Thereafter, the Commission shall proceed pursuant to this Section
14.5.6.



 



   (e)   If the Commission upholds the Agency Board's action or failure
to act, the Applicant may appeal the action of the Commission by filing a
written appeal with the City Council.  The City Council shall determine
whether the Agency Board acted reasonably in light of all of the
circumstances in disapproving or failing to act on the request for approval
of the Transfer.  Any appeal to the City Council shall be filed with the
City Clerk within 20 calendar days after the Commission's action, and shall
contain the proposed Transfer Plan and the record of the proceedings before
the Agency Board and the Commission.



 



   (f)   If the City Council finds for the Applicant on any matter in
dispute, the City Council shall remand the matter to the Agency Board to
complete its proceedings with respect to the proposed Transfer in a manner
that is consistent with the City Council's action on the matter.  The City
Council may impose conditions on the remanded request as it deems necessary
to accomplish the purposes and objectives of this article.



 



   4.   Commission Review of Agency Board Approval.  If the Agency
Board approves a request for an approval of a Transfer for a Project, the
Agency and the Applicant shall jointly submit the proposed Transfer Plan for
the Project to the Commission, the initial decision-maker for the City, after
approval of the request by the Agency Board.



 



   The Commission may recommend approval, conditional approval or
disapproval of the Transfer for a Project.



 



   (a)   Findings.  In acting on a Transfer for a Project, the
Commission shall make the findings in Subsection B.2.(a) of this Section
14.5.6.



 



   (b)   Conditions of Approval.



 



   (1)   The Transfer shall provide a Public Benefit Payment, and, if
applicable, a TFAR Transfer payment in conformance, respectively, with
Section 14.5.9 and Section 14.5.10 of this Code; and;



 



   (2)   The Commission may require additional conditions for the
Transfer to ensure consistency with the purposes and objectives of the
Redevelopment Plan and the Community Plan, and to secure an appropriate
development in harmony with the General Plan.



 



   (c)   Commission Hearing.  A public hearing on the proposed
Transfer for a Project shall be held by the Commission in accordance with the
procedures set forth in Section 12.24 D. of this Code.



 



   (d)   Commission Action.



 



   (1)   The Commission shall act upon any proposed Transfer for a
Project within 75 calendar days from the date of submittal to it of the
Agency's Board approved Transfer Plan.  This time limit may be extended by
mutual consent of the Applicant and the Commission.  The Commission shall
forthwith transmit a copy of its action to the Applicant, the Agency Board
and any other person requesting notice in writing.  If the Commission fails
to act on the proposed Transfer within 75 calendar days, the request shall be
automatically submitted to the City Council for its action.



 



   (2)   If the Commission recommends disapproval of a request, in
whole or in part, its action on any disapproved portion shall be final unless
an appeal is taken to the City Council.  The Applicant may appeal any
disapproval within 15 calendar days after the Commission mails its decision
to the Applicant by filing the appeal with the City Clerk on a form
prescribed by the Commission.



 



   (e)   Council Action.



 



   (1)   The City Council may approve, conditionally approve or
disapprove a proposed Transfer for a Project by a majority vote.  In acting
on the Transfer, the City Council shall make findings in support of its
decision.  The City Council shall not approve or conditionally approve a
Transfer unless it finds that the development resulting from the Transfer
meets each of the standards set forth in Subsection A.2.(a) and A.2.(b) or
B.2.(a) and B.2.(b) of this section, as applicable.



 



   (2)   The Council may impose conditions as it deems appropriate to
accomplish the purposes and objectives of the Redevelopment and Community
Plans and to assure that the development resulting from the Transfer meets
the standards set forth in Subsection A.2.(a) and A.2.(b) or B.2.(a) and
B.2.(b) of this section, as applicable.



 



   (f)   Mayoral Action.



 



   (1)   When the City Council approves or conditionally approves a
proposed Transfer for a Project, the matter together with the files and
reports shall forthwith be transmitted to the Mayor.  The Mayor may approve
or disapprove the proposed Transfer within ten calendar days of its
presentation to him or her.  This action shall be based solely upon the
administrative record and whether the Mayor believes the proposed Transfer
conforms with the requirements for approval set forth in this section.  If
the Mayor disapproves the proposed Transfer, he or she shall return the
matter to the City Clerk for presentation to the City Council, together with
the objections in writing.  The City Council, within 60 calendar days after
the matter has been returned to it, may override the disapproval by a
two-thirds vote.



 



   (2)   If the City Council fails to override the Mayor's disapproval
within the 60 calendar days, the Mayor's disapproval shall constitute a
denial of the proposed Transfer.  If the Mayor fails to return the matter to
the City Clerk within ten calendar days of the presentation to him or her,
the approval of the proposed Transfer shall become final.



 



 



SEC. 14.5.7.  DIRECTOR’S DETERMINATION.



 



   A.   Director's Authority to Approve Transfers of Less than 50,000
Square Feet of Floor Area.  The Director, acting on applications for a
Transfer of less than 50,000 square feet, shall have the authority to grant
Transfers of Floor Area Rights in accordance with this Section.  This is in
addition to any action required by the Agency for projects located within the
City Center Redevelopment Project Area.



 



   1.   Application.  The Applicant shall file an application with the
Department of City Planning on a form provided by the Department, and include
all information required by the instructions on the application, including
details of the requested transfer, accompanied by applicable fees.



 



   2.   Director's Authority.  The Director shall have the initial
decision-making authority to determine whether an application for a Transfer
is consistent with this subsection.



 



   3.   Action by Director.  The Director shall approve, conditionally
approve, or disapprove the request for Transfer, including the public
benefits to be provided, and make the following findings:



 



   (a)   Findings.



 



   (1)   That the Project is proper in relation to the adjacent uses or
the development of the community;



 



   (2)   That the Project will not be materially detrimental to the
character of development in the immediate neighborhoods;



 



   (3)   That the Project will be in harmony with the various elements
and objectives of the General Plan;



 



   (4)   That the Project is consistent with any applicable adopted
Redevelopment Plan;



 



   (5)   That the Transfer serves the public interest by providing
public benefits in accordance with Subparagraph (b)(1) of this subdivision;
and



 



   (6)   That the Project incorporates feasible mitigation measures,
monitoring measures when necessary or alternatives identified in the
environmental review which would substantially lessen the significant
environmental effects of the Project, and any additional findings as may be
required by CEQA.



 



   (b)   Conditions of Approval.



 



   (1)   The Transfer shall provide public benefits equivalent in value
to the dollar amount otherwise required for a Public Benefit Payment, in
conformance with Section 14.5.9 of this Code;



 



   (2)   The Transfer must comply with any urban design standards and
guidelines adopted by the City Planning Commission for the area, including
the Downtown Design Guide, and other applicable design guidelines;



 



   (3)   The Director may require additional conditions for the
Transfer to ensure consistency with the purposes and objectives of the
Community Plan.



 



   4.   Transmittal of Written Decision.  Within three business days
of making a decision, the Director shall transmit a copy by First Class Mail
to: (1) the applicant; (2) all owners of properties abutting, across the
street or alley from, or having a common corner with the subject property;
(3) the local Certified Neighborhood Council; and (4) the Agency when the
Project is located within the City Center Redevelopment Project Area.



 



   5.   Effective Date of Initial Decision.  The Director's decision
shall become effective after a period of 15 calendar days from the date of
the mailing of the written decision has elapsed, unless an appeal is filed to
the Area Planning Commission.



 



   6.   Appeals.



 



   (a)   Filing of an Appeal.  An applicant or any other person
aggrieved by the Director's decision may appeal the decision to the Area
Planning Commission.  The appeal shall be filed within 15 calendar days of
the date of mailing of the Director's decision on forms provided by the
Department.  The appeal shall specifically set forth the points at issue,
the reasons for the appeal, and the basis upon which the appellant claims
there was an error or abuse of discretion by the Director.  Any appeal not
filed within the 15-day appeal period shall not be considered by the Area
Planning Commission.  The filing of an appeal stays proceedings in the
matter until the Area Planning Commission has made a decision.  Once an
appeal is filed, the Director shall transmit the appeal and the file to the
Area Planning Commission, together with any reports responding to the
allegations made in the appeal.



 



   (b)   Appellate Decision - Public Hearing and Notice.  Before
acting on any appeal, the Area Planning Commission shall set the matter for
hearing, with written notice of the hearing sent by First Class Mail at least
15 calendar days prior to the meeting date to:  (1) the applicant; (2) the
owner(s) of the property involved; (3) the owners of properties within 100
feet of the exterior boundaries of the property involved; (4) the
Councilmember for the City Council District in which the property is located;
(5) the local Certified Neighborhood Council; (6) the Agency, when the
project is located within the City Center Redevelopment Project Area; and (7)
interested parties who have requested notice in writing.



 



   (c)   Time for Appellate Decision.  The Area Planning Commission
shall act within 75 calendar days after the expiration of the appeal period
or within any additional period mutually agreed upon by the applicant and the
Area Planning Commission.  The failure of the Area Planning Commission to
act within this time period shall be deemed a denial of the appeal.



 



   (d)   Appellate Decision.  The Area Planning Commission may reverse
or modify, in whole or in part, a decision of the Director.  The Area
Planning Commission shall make the same findings required to be made by the
Director, supported by facts in the record, and indicate why the Director
erred in determining a project's compliance with the applicable regulations
of this Subsection.



 



   (e)   Effective Date of Appellate Decision.  The appellate decision
of the Area Planning Commission shall be final and effective as provided in
Section 245 of the City of Los Angeles Charter.



 



 



SEC. 14.5.8.  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.



 



   A.   The Department shall establish an accounting of all Transfers
and Public Benefit Payments in the Central City TFAR Area.  The accountings
shall be transmitted annually to the Commission for its review and shall
include the amount of floor area restricted on each Donor Site and added to
each Receiver Site and the dollar amount and related calculation for each
approved Transfer Plan.



 



   1.   The Department shall maintain a record of the available Floor
Area Rights in the Central City TFAR Area, and any Transfers and other
records as may be necessary or desirable to provide an up-to-date account of
the Floor Area Rights available for use in the Central City TFAR Area.  The
records shall be available for public inspection.



 



   2.   The Department shall maintain an accounting of all Public
Benefit Payments derived from Transfers, and an accounting of all allocations
of the Public Benefit Payments.  The records shall be available for public
inspection.



 



   B.   The Department shall establish a procedure to coordinate the
obtaining of timely responses from affected City departments and agencies on
each Project involving a Transfer, as a part of the early consultation
process, referenced above.



 



   C.   Any Transfer approved pursuant to this article shall be
evidenced by a recorded document, signed by both the owner of the Donor Site
and the owner of the Receiver Site and in a form satisfactory to the City
Attorney and designed to run with the land.  When the owner of the Donor
Site is the City, the Director shall be the signatory on behalf of the City
on the recorded document.  This document shall clearly set forth the amount
of Floor Area Rights transferred and restrict the allowable Floor Area
remaining on the Donor Site.



 



 



SEC. 14.5.9.  PUBLIC BENEFIT PAYMENT.



 



   A.   A Public Benefit Payment shall be provided as part of an
approved Transfer Plan and shall serve a public purpose, such as: providing
for affordable housing; public open space; historic preservation;
recreational; cultural; community and public facilities; job training and
outreach programs; affordable child care; streetscape improvements; public
arts programs; homeless services programs; or public transportation
improvements.  Prior to approving or recommending approval of a Transfer
Plan, the Agency Board, Commission or the City Council shall make a finding
that the Public Benefit Payment proposed by the Applicant in the Transfer
Plan, or by the Agency Board, Commission or the City Council in its
conditional approval, will result in Public Benefits with an economic value
consistent with the sum of the Public Benefit Payment set forth in Subsection
C. of this Section 14.5.9.



 



   B.   As approved by the City Council, a Public Benefit Payment may
be provided by any combination of the payment of monies to the Transfer of
Floor Area Rights Public Benefit Payment Trust Fund ("Public Benefit Payment
Trust Fund") or by the direct provision of Public Benefits by the Applicant;
provided, however, that without City Council approval at least 50% of the
Public Benefit Payment must consist of cash payment by the Applicant to the
Public Benefit Payment Trust fund.



 



   C.   The Public Benefit Payment under any Transfer Plan shall
equal:  (1) the sale price of the Receiver Site, if it has been purchased
through an unrelated third-party transaction within 18 months of the date of
submission of the request for approval of the Transfer, or an Appraisal, if
it has not; (2) divided by the Lot Area (prior to any dedications) of the
Receiver Site; (3) further divided by the High-Density Floor Area Ratio
Factor; (4) multiplied by 40%; and (5) further multiplied by the number of
square feet of Floor Area Rights to be transferred to the Receiver Site.



 



   [Example:  If Receiver Site with a Lot Area of 100,000 square feet
(before any dedications) was purchased for $40,000,000 (through an unrelated
third-party transaction within 18 months of the date of submission of the
request for approval of the Transfer), the Public Benefit Payment under a
Transfer Plan transferring 100,000 square feet of Floor Area Rights would
equal:  (a) $40,000,000 (the purchase price); (b) divided by 100,000 (the
Lot Area of the Receiver Site); (c) divided by 6 (the High-Density Floor Area
Ratio Factor); (d) multiplied by 40%; and (e) multiplied by 100,000 (the
number of square feet of Floor Area Rights to be transferred) = $2,666,666.67
(or $26.67 for each square foot of transferred Floor Area Rights).]



 



 



SEC. 14.5.10.  TFAR TRANSFER PAYMENT.



 



   A.   If the Donor Site is owned by the Agency or the City, the TFAR
Transfer Payment shall be the greater of (a) 10% of the Public Benefit
Payment calculated pursuant to Section 14.5.9 C. of this Code, or (b) $5
multiplied by the number of square feet of Floor Area Rights to be
transferred to the Receiver Site.  This TFAR Transfer Payment shall be paid
in cash by the Applicant to the Public Benefit Payment Trust fund as set
forth in Section 14.5.12 of this Code.



 



   B.   If the Donor Site is owned by a party other than the Agency or
the City, then the amount and payment of any TFAR Transfer Payment will be
negotiated between the owner of the Donor Site and owner of the Receiver Site.



 



   C.   The Transfer Payment is independent of the Public Benefit
Payment.



 



 



SEC. 14.5.11.  PAYMENTS AND VESTING.



 



   Any Public Benefit Payment together with any TFAR Transfer Payment to
the Agency or City shall be provided as set forth in the Transfer Plan and as
set forth below:



 



   A.   If the approved Transfer Plan specifies a single-phase Project
on the Receiver Site, then the owner of the Receiver Site shall pay the
Public Benefit Payment together with any TFAR Transfer Payment due to the
Agency or the City on or before the earlier of



 



   1.   The issuance of the building permit for the Project; or



 



   2.   Twenty-four months after the final approval of the Transfer and
the expiration of any appeals or appeals periods, unless extended by the
Director in writing, and the Administrator when the Agency has taken an
action on the Transfer Plan.



 



   B.   If the approved Transfer Plan specifies a multi-phased Project
on the Receiver Site, then the owner of the Receiver Site must pay the Public
Benefit Payment together with any Transfer Payment due to the Agency or the
City, through any one of the three methods set forth below, except as may be
extended by the Director in writing, and the Administrator when the Agency
has taken an action on the Transfer Plan:



 



   1.   In total for all phases of the Project, on or before the
earlier of:  (i) the issuance of the building permit for the first phase of
the Project or (ii) 24 months after the final approval of the Transfer and
the expiration of any appeals or appeals periods for all phases of the
Project;



 



   2.   Incrementally by each phase of the Project, proportionate to
the Floor Area Rights utilized in each phase, on or before the issuance of
the building permit for each phase, with the amount of each payment being
subject to payment indexing in accordance with an executed agreement between
the owner of the Receiver Site and the Agency or the City; or



 



   3.   Incrementally by each phase of the Project, proportionate to
the Floor Area Rights utilized in each phase, on or before the issuance of
the building permit for each phase, with the amount of each payment being
recalculated as of the date that the building permit for each phase is issued
in accordance with an Appraisal establishing the fair market value of the
Receiver Site within six months prior to the issuance of the building permit
for that phase.



 



   C.   Upon the Applicant's payment to the Agency or the City of all
of the Public Benefit Payment together with all of the TFAR Transfer Payment
required under an approved Transfer, all Floor Area Rights transferred to the
Receiver Site pursuant to the Transfer Plan shall vest in the Receiver Site
and thereafter run with the land.



 



 



SEC. 14.5.12.  PUBLIC BENEFIT PAYMENT TRUST FUND.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 182,691, Eff. 10/8/03.)



 



   Funds held in the Public Benefit Payment Trust Fund shall be disbursed
in accordance with Section 5.416 of the Los Angeles Administrative Code and
(1) after receipt of non-binding recommendations by a committee comprised of
one representative from each of the following:  the City Council Office for
the City Council District in which the Receiver Site is located, the City
Council Office for the City Council District in which the Donor Site is
located, the Economic and Workforce Development Department, the Department of
City Planning, the Mayor's Office, the City Administrative Officer, the Chief
Legislative Analyst, the Neighborhood Council for the area in which the
Receiver Site is located, the Project Area Committee (if one exists) for the
area in which the Receiver Site is located, and the Community Advisory
Committee (if one exists) for the area in which the Receiver Site is located,
in accordance with the procedure previously established for the Public
Benefit Payment Trust Fund, (2) within five years after receipt, and (3) for
use on projects or programs providing a Public Benefit as set forth in
Section 14.5.9 A. of this Code.  This Chief Legislative Analyst shall
convene the Public Benefit Payment Trust Fund Committee within six months of
receipt of funds.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 5
REFERRALS – LAND FOR PUBLIC USE



 




(Amended by Ord. No. 114,449, Eff. 9/17/59)





(Title Amended by Ord. No. 138,800, Eff. 6/13/69, Oper. 6/23/69)




 



 



Section



15.00   Procedure.



 



 



SEC. 15.00.  PROCEDURE.



 



   A.   Transmittal of Petition or Resolution.  Any petition received
by the City Clerk and presented to the City Council and any resolution
introduced in the City Council having for its purpose the adoption by the
Council of any ordinance, order or resolution ordering or involving the
acquisition, establishing, opening, widening, narrowing, straightening,
abandoning, or vacating of any public street, road, highway, alley, square,
park. playground, airport, public building site or any other public way,
ground or open space, or the location, appearance, and width of any bridge,
viaduct, subway, tunnel, or elevated roadway for the use of pedestrians or
vehicular traffic, or the location and appearance of any public building,
shall be referred to such City Department or Bureau as is determined by the
Council to have jurisdiction over the matter involved in such petition or
proposed ordinance, order or resolution, for report and recommendation
thereon to the Council or to a Committee of the Council designated by the
Council, before the Council shall grant such petition or adopt or enact any
such ordinance, order or resolution.



 



   B.   Presented  to Planning Department.  (Amended by Ord. No.
138,800, Oper. 6/23/69.) The said Department or Bureau to which any such
petition or resolution is referred by the Council shall, before reporting to
the Council upon the particular subject matter, refer the matter to the City
Planning Department for report and recommendation thereon by the Commission
concerning the relation of the matter to and its effect upon the General
Plan, any applicable specific plans and any plans being prepared by the
Department of City Planning. Provided, however, that easements for local
sanitary sewers, storm drains or slopes need not be referred to the City
Planning Department.



 



   Such Bureau or Department shall transmit its report to the City Council
on the subject matter of the petition or resolution or accompanying ordinance
or order, together with an original copy of said report of the City Planning
Commission relating thereto.



 



   C.   Commission Action Necessary.  (Amended by Ord. No. 138,800,
Oper. 6/23/69.) Before any ordinance, order or resolution relating to any of
the matters referred to in Subsection A hereof, except easements for local
sanitary sewers, storm drains or slopes is presented to the Council by the
City Attorney for consideration said ordinance, order or resolution shall be
first submitted by the City Attorney to the City Planning Department for
report and recommendation thereon by the Commission. Such ordinance, order or
resolution shall be returned by the Director of Planning to the City Attorney
for transmittal to the City Council or its Committee, together with the
report and recommendation relating thereto.



 



   D.   Time Limit. (Amended by Ord. No. 174,471, Eff. 4/20/02.)  The
Commission shall make and file its report and recommendations on any
petition, ordinance, order or resolution within 30 days of receipt of same.
If the same be disapproved, the Director of Planning shall advise the Bureau
or Department submitting the matter of its disapproval and reasons therefor
within such 30-day period.



 



   E.   Council Action. (Amended by Ord. No. 138,800, Oper. 6/23/69.)
If the Commission recommends against the approval of an ordinance order or
resolution, the Council may adopt the same only upon a two–thirds vote of
the whole Council. If the Commission recommends approval, or fails to make
any recommendation within the specified time limit, the Council may adopt
such ordinance. order or resolution by a majority vote of the whole Council.



 



   In acting upon such matter the City Planning Commission and the City
Council shall make findings showing that the action is in substantial
conformance with the purposes, intent and provisions of the General Plan or
their reasons, for not conforming therewith. If the Council does not adopt
the Commission’s findings and recommendations, the Council shall make its
own findings.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 6
TEMPORARY REGULATIONS RELATING TO LAND USE APPROVALS FOR PROPERTIES DAMAGED
IN A LOCAL EMERGENCY



 




(Amended by Ord. No. 169,352, Eff. 2/14/94.)




 



 



Section



16.00   Declaration of Purpose.



16.01   Long-term Temporary Uses.



16.02   Special Provisions for Other Land Use Proceedings.



16.03   Restoration of Damaged or Destroyed Buildings.



16.04   Critical Response Facilities.



16.04.1   Short-term Temporary Uses.



16.04.2   Activation and Termination of Effect.



 



 



SEC. 16.00.  DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)



 



   It is the purpose and objective of this Article to establish reasonable
and uniform regulations to protect the public welfare and to provide a
streamlined method for consideration of applications for temporary use
approvals and other land use approvals in an emergency, such as fire, storm,
severe earthquake, civil disturbance, or other disaster declared by the
Governor.



 



 



SEC. 16.01.  LONG-TERM TEMPORARY USES.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)



 



   A.   Authority of the Zoning Administrator.  Notwithstanding any
other provision of this Code to the contrary, the Zoning Administrator shall
have the authority to approve the use of a lot in any zone for the temporary
use of property which will aid in the immediate restoration of an area
adversely impacted by a severe fire, storm, earthquake, similar natural
disaster, or a civil or military disturbance, and declared by the Governor as
an emergency area if the Zoning Administrator finds:



 



   1.   That the nature and short duration of the proposed temporary
use assures that the proposed use will not be materially detrimental to the
character of development in the immediate neighborhood;



 



   2.   That the proposed use will not adversely affect the
implementation of the General Plan or any applicable specific plan; and



 



   3.   That the proposed use will contribute in a positive fashion to
the reconstruction and recovery of areas adversely impacted during the
emergency.



 



   In making a determination pursuant to this section, the Zoning
Administrator shall balance the public interest and benefit to be derived
from the proposed temporary use against the degree, significance of, and
temporary nature of the inconvenience to be caused in the area where the
temporary use is located.  The Zoning Administrator may promulgate
regulations and guidelines as are necessary and proper to administer the
provisions of this article.



 



   B.   Conditions of Approval.  In approving the location of any
temporary use, the Zoning Administrator may impose those conditions he or she
deems necessary to protect the peaceful and quiet enjoyment of nearby
properties.  The Zoning Administrator shall also require the posting of a
completion bond, or other guarantee satisfactory to the Zoning Administrator,
to cover the cost of the removal of any improvements made to a site or
cleaning of the site after termination of the temporary authorized use.



 



   Furthermore, the Zoning Administrator shall require termination of the
temporary use within one year from the date of the approval of the temporary
use, the removal of all temporary improvements on the site, and the
restoration of the site to a permitted use within a reasonable period of time
determined by the Zoning Administrator.  Approval of any application for a
temporary use shall not result in any vested or nonconforming rights to carry
on the temporary use after the term authorized.



 



   The design and improvement provisions of Sections 12.21A5 and 6 and the
yard requirements of Chapter 1 of this Code shall not apply to temporary
permits for public parking in the R Zones.  However, in approving permits,
the Zoning Administrator may impose those conditions as the Zoning
Administrator deems necessary to protect the peaceful and quiet enjoyment of
the subject and nearby properties.



 



   C.   Revocation.  The Zoning Administrator may suspend or revoke
any temporary use approval, if the Administrator determines that the
temporary use bears no significant relation to the reconstruction and
recovery of areas adversely impacted by the emergency, or that the conditions
imposed on any temporary use approval have not been complied with, or that an
unreasonable level of interference with the peaceful enjoyment of neighboring
properties is created by the conduct of any authorized activity.



 



   Prior to the revocation of a temporary use approval, the Zoning
Administrator shall give written notice to the record owner or lessee to
appear within five days or less (if justified by a threat to public health
and safety) at a time and place fixed by the Zoning Administrator and show
cause why the temporary use approval should not be revoked or why further
conditions should not be imposed.



 



   A determination of the Zoning Administrator pursuant to this subsection
may be appealed to the Area Planning Commission on a form prescribed by the
Department of City Planning in accordance with the procedures described in
this section.



 



   D.   Other Permits and Licenses.  This article shall not, except as
stated here, modify or affect in any way the duty of any applicant to obtain
any other permit or license which may be required under any other provision
of this Code or state law.



 



   E.   Application.  An application to permit any temporary use
referred to in this article shall be filed with the Department of City
Planning upon forms and accompanied by data as the Department of City
Planning may require.



 



   The application may be filed by an owner or a lessee and shall be
verified by the applicant attesting to the truth and correctness of all facts
and information presented with, or contained in the application and shall
also be signed by the owner of record of any site where the proposed
temporary use will be located.



 



   A copy of any application so filed shall be transmitted by the
Department of City Planning to the Councilmember of the district in which the
proposed use would be located and to the Department of Transportation for
their information.



 



   F.   Notice and Hearing.  Upon the filing of a verified
application, the Zoning Administrator shall set the matter for public
hearing.  Notice of the time, place, and purpose of the hearing shall be
given by mailing a written notice at least 14 days prior to the date of the
hearing to the applicant, to the owner of the subject property, to adjoining
and abutting property owners, and to property owners directly across the
street or alley from the subject property.  For this notice the following
shall be used: the last known name and address of the property owners as
shown upon the records of the City Engineer or the records of the County
Assessor.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,595, Eff. 4/10/11.)



 



   An application for a temporary use shall be set for public hearing
unless the Zoning Administrator makes written findings, attached to the file
involved, that the requested temporary use:



 



   1.   will not have a significant effect on adjoining properties or
on the immediate neighborhood; or



 



   2.   is not likely to evoke public controversy.



 



   G.   Time Limit.  The Zoning Administrator shall make a
determination within 30 days from the filing of a verified application. 
This time limit may be extended by mutual written consent of the applicant
and Zoning Administrator.



 



   H.   Fee.  An application for an approval pursuant to this section
shall not require any filing fee.



 



   I.   Decisions by the Zoning Administrator.  Decisions by the
Zoning Administrator shall be supported by written findings of fact based
upon written or oral statements and documents presented to the Zoning
Administrator, which may include photographs, maps and plans, together with
the results of the Zoning Administrator’s investigations.  Upon making a
decision, the Zoning Administrator shall forthwith mail a copy of his or her
written findings and decisions to the applicant, and to the other persons who
were required to be notified under Subsection F.



 



   J.   Decision Effective and Appeal.  The decision of the Zoning
Administrator shall become final after an elapsed period of ten days from the
date of mailing a copy of the written findings and decision to the
applicant.  During this period, any person aggrieved by the decision may
file a written appeal to the Area Planning Commission.  The appeals shall
set forth specifically the points at issue, the reasons for the appeal, and
how the appellant believes there was an error or abuse of discretion by the
Zoning Administrator.  No fee shall be charged for this appeal.



 



   K.   Failure to Act.  If the Zoning Administrator fails to make a
decision on a temporary land use application within the time limit specified
in Subsection C of this section, then the applicant may file a request in the
Office of Zoning Administration for a transfer of jurisdiction to the Area
Planning Commission and for a decision by the Area Planning Commission on the
original application.  In that case, the Zoning Administrator shall lose
jurisdiction and the Area Planning Commission shall assume jurisdiction,
provided, however, that the matter may be remanded to the Zoning
Administrator or the Area Planning Commission may accept the applicant’s
request for withdrawal of the transfer of jurisdiction.  In either case, the
Zoning Administrator shall regain jurisdiction for the time and purpose
specified by the Area Planning Commission.



 



   L.   Transfer of Jurisdiction.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff.
10/10/00.)  When considering any matter transferred to its jurisdiction
pursuant to Section 16.02 because of the failure of the Zoning Administrator
to act, the Area Planning Commission shall make its decision within 30 days
after the request to transfer jurisdiction is filed.  All decisions shall
become final on the date of mailing a copy of the Area Planning
Commission’s decision to the applicant.



 



   M.   Record on Appeal.  Within five days of receipt of the filing
of an appeal, the file of the Zoning Administrator appealed from and the
appeal shall be delivered to the Area Planning Commission.  At any time
prior to the action by the Area Planning Commission on the appeal, the Zoning
Administrator may submit supplementary pertinent information he or she deems
necessary or as may be requested by the Area Planning Commission.



 



   N.   Hearing Date-Notice.  Upon receipt of the appeal, the Area
Planning Commission shall set the matter for hearing and give notice by mail
of the time, place and purpose of the hearing to the appellant, to the
applicant, to the owner or owners of the property involved, to the Zoning
Administrator and to any other interested party who has requested in writing
to be so notified.  This notice shall be in writing and mailed at least five
days prior to the hearing.



 



   O.   Hearing Date-Continuance.  Upon the date set for the hearing,
the Area Planning Commission shall hear the appeal, unless, for cause, the
Area Planning Commission shall on that date continue the matter.  No notice
of continuance need be given if the order to continue is announced at the
time for which the hearing was set.



 



   P.   Decision.  When considering an appeal from an action by the
Zoning Administrator, the Area Planning Commission shall make its decision
within 15 days (in the case of a revocation, within 10 days) after the
expiration of the appeal period, or within an extended period of time as may
be mutually agreed upon in writing by the applicant and the Area Planning
Commission.  The Area Planning Commission shall base its decision only upon:



 



   (i)   evidence introduced at the hearing, or hearings, if any,
before the Zoning Administrator, on the issue;



 



   (ii)   the record, findings and determination of the Zoning
Administrator; and



 



   (iii)   the consideration of arguments, if any, presented to the
Area Planning Commission orally or in writing.



 



   If an applicant or aggrieved person wishes to offer into the
proceedings any new evidence in connection with the matter, a written summary
of that evidence, together with a statement as to why that evidence could not
reasonably have been presented to the Zoning Administrator shall be filed
with the Area Planning Commission prior to the hearing.  If the Area
Planning Commission fails to act on any appeal within the time limit
specified in the subsection, the determination of the Zoning Administrator
shall be final.



 



   The Area Planning Commission may modify or reverse the ruling, decision
or determination appealed from only upon making findings indicating how the
action of the Zoning Administrator was in error or constituted an abuse of
discretion and shall make specific findings supporting any modification or
reversal.  The decision of the Area Planning Commission shall be final as of
the date of its determination on the matter.  After making a decision, a
copy of the findings and determination shall forthwith be placed on file in
the City Planning Department and a copy of the determination shall be
furnished to the applicant, the appellant and the Department of Building and
Safety.



 



 



SEC. 16.02.  SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR OTHER LAND USE PROCEEDINGS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)



 



   Notwithstanding any provision of Articles 1 through 9 of Chapter I of
this Code or any other ordinance to the contrary, with respect to those uses,
buildings and sites destroyed or damaged in connection with a declared
emergency, and in the area covered by the declaration of emergency, the
following exceptions shall apply:



 



   A.   Payment of all Planning Department and Zoning Administrator
fees may be deferred until the applicant seeks a certificate of occupancy or
a temporary certificate of occupancy, whichever occurs first.



 



   B.   For applications relating to new conditional uses, other
similar quasi-judicial approvals, site plan review, exceptions from specific
plans, project permits pursuant to moratorium ordinances or interim control
ordinances, Sections 12.23, 12.27 and 14.00 actions and any revocation or
modification proceedings:



 



   If the law otherwise requires or authorizes a public hearing, the
matter shall be set for public hearing unless the Zoning Administrator, the
Area Planning Commission, the City Planning Commission, or Director of
Planning, makes written findings, attached to the file involved, that the
matter:



 



   1.   will not have a significant effect on adjoining properties or
on the immediate neighborhood; or



 



   2.   is not likely to evoke public controversy.



 



   Provided, however, that no hearing shall be waived in any proceeding
involving establishments dispensing alcoholic beverages for consideration,
swap meets, gun shops, pawnshops and automobile repair establishments.



 



   When a matter is set for public hearing, written notice of the hearing
shall be given to the applicant, the owner or owners of the property involved
and to the owners of all property within and outside of the City within 500
feet of the property involved.



 



   C.   Payment of the Linkage Fee pursuant to Section 19.18 of this
Code.  (Added by Ord. No. 185,342, Eff. 2/17/18.)



 



 



SEC. 16.03.  RESTORATION OF DAMAGED OR DESTROYED BUILDINGS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)



 



   A.   Nonconforming.  Notwithstanding any other provisions of this
article to the contrary, a building nonconforming as to use, yards, height,
number of stories, lot area, floor area, residential density, loading space,
parking, off-site signs or other nonconforming provisions of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code, which is damaged or destroyed as a result of the declared
emergency may be repaired or reconstructed with the same nonconforming use,
yards, height, number of stories, lot area, floor area, residential density,
loading space, parking or off-site signs as the original building. 
Provided, however, that repair or reconstruction shall be commenced within
two years of the date of damage or destruction and completed within two years
of obtaining a permit for reconstruction.  Provided, further, that neither
the footing nor any portion of the replacement building may encroach into any
area planned for widening or extension of existing or future streets as
determined by the Planning Department upon the recommendation of the City
Engineer.



 



   The provisions of this section shall supersede any Interim Control
Ordinances, Interim Plan Revision Ordinances, Specific Plans (except for the
South Central Alcohol Beverage Specific Plan, Ord. No. 171,681), Section
16.05 and the City’s hillside regulations under Section 12.21A17 (except
for Paragraphs (d) and (e)).  Notwithstanding any provision in this section
to the contrary, any existing provision of law regulating the issuance of
building or demolition permits for buildings or structures currently with
historical or cultural designations on the federal, state and City lists
shall remain in full force and effect.  All Historic Preservation Overlay
Zone regulations shall continue in full force and effect with respect to the
demolition, repair and reconstruction of damaged or destroyed buildings or
structures.



 



   For purposes of this subsection, a building or structure may only be
demolished and rebuilt to its non-conforming status, relative to the
provisions of this Code, any Interim Control Ordinances, Interim Plan
Revision Ordinances, Specific Plans (except for the South Central Alcohol
Beverage Specific Plan, Ord. No. 171,681) and the City’s hillside
regulations under Section 12.21A17 (except for Paragraphs (d) and (e)), if
the building or structure either is destroyed or is “damaged” in the
following manner:



 



   1.   Any portion of the building or structure is damaged by
earthquake, wind, flood, fire, or other disaster, in such a manner that the
structural strength or stability of the building or structure is appreciably
less than it was before the catastrophe and is less than the minimum
requirements of this Code for a new building or structure of similar
structure, purpose or location, as determined by the Department of Building
and Safety; and



 



   2.   The cost of repair would exceed 50 percent of the replacement
cost of the building or structure, not including the value of the foundation
system, as determined by the Department of Building and Safety.



 



   Nothing here shall be interpreted as authorizing the continuation of a
nonconforming use beyond the time limits set forth in Section 12.23 of this
Code that were applicable to the site prior to the events which necessitated
the declaration of the emergency.



 



   If issues of interpretation relating to the above provisions arise, the
Zoning Administrator is hereby authorized to resolve those issues in light of
the scope and purposes of this subsection.



 



   Notwithstanding the time periods described above or in Section 16.04.2,
nonconforming properties damaged during the January 17, 1994 Northridge
Earthquake shall have until January 17, 1999 to obtain building permits for
repair or reconstruction; and that work shall be completed within two years
of obtaining building permits.  The City Council may, by resolution extend
these time periods for one additional year.



 



   B.   Conditional Uses and Public Benefits.  The following
conditional uses and public benefits are considered to be of such importance
and their expeditious replacement is of such value to the health and safety
of the community that they are hereby granted an exemption from the plan
approval process required by Section 12.24M, provided that the structures
containing these uses are rebuilt as they lawfully existed prior to their
destruction, with the same building footprint and height.



 



   Conditional Uses and Public Benefits



 



   Airports or aircraft landing fields



 



   Correctional or penal institutions



 



   Educational institutions



 



   Libraries, museums, fire or police stations or governmental enterprises



 



   Piers, jetties, man-made islands, floating installations



 



   Public utilities and public service uses and structures



 



   Schools, elementary and high



 



   Electric power generating sites, plants or stations



 



   OS Open Space Zone uses



 



   Child care facilities or nursery schools



 



   Churches or houses of worship



 



   Hospitals or sanitariums



 



   If issues of interpretation or administration relating to the above
exemptions arise, the Director is authorized to resolve those issues in light
of the scope and purposes of this subsection.  (Para. Amended by Ord. No.
173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)



 



   C.   Notwithstanding Subsections A and B above, the following five
uses shall not be exempt from the provisions of this Code, interim control
ordinances, specific plans, and interim plan revision ordinances:
establishments dispensing alcoholic beverages for consideration, swap meets,
gun shops, pawnshops and automobile repair establishments.



 



   D.   Highway and Collector Street Dedication and Improvement.  For
any lot identified by the City as having sustained damage during and as a
result of the situation causing the declared emergency, the issuance of a
building permit for a new development on that site shall not require
improvement of frontage for major or secondary highway and collector street
widening purposes under Section 12.37A.



 



   Nothing here shall prevent a property owner from voluntarily improving
the right of way and undertaking public improvements which conform to the
applicable sections of this Code.



 



   E.   The Zoning Administrator may grant deviations of no more than
ten percent from the City’s floor area, height, yard, setback, parking, and
loading space requirements for buildings and structures damaged or destroyed
in an emergency declared by the Governor when the deviations are necessary to
accommodate the requirements of the Americans With Disabilities Act, Federal
Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988, the California Code of Regulations,
Title 24, provided he or she finds:



 



   1.   That the deviations are not likely to cause an undue burden on
nearby streets or neighboring properties;



 



   2.   That the grant is not likely to evoke public controversy; and



 



   3.   That the development cannot feasibly be designed to meet the
requisite disabled access standards without the deviations.



 



   Prior to acting on an application for a deviation, the Zoning
Administrator shall give notice to all adjoining property owners and shall
hold a public hearing.  The Zoning Administrator may waive the public
hearing if he or she makes the two findings in Section 16.02B.  The notice
and procedures provided in Section 16.01 shall be followed for granting any
deviation.



 



 



SEC. 16.04.  CRITICAL RESPONSE FACILITIES.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)



 



   A.   Authority of the Department of Building and Safety. 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code to the contrary, the
Department of Building and Safety shall, during the first six months
following the declaration of an emergency, have the authority to issue a
temporary permit for the duration of the emergency, on any lot, regardless of
zone, for any police, fire, emergency medical or emergency communications
facility which will aid in the immediate restoration of an area adversely
impacted by a severe fire, storm, earthquake, similar natural disaster, or a
civil or military disturbance, and declared by the Governor as an emergency
area, provided that the department shall maintain records of all temporary
permits.



 



 



SEC. 16.04.1.  SHORT-TERM TEMPORARY USES.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)



 



   A.   Authority of the Department of Building and Safety. 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code to the contrary, the
Department of Building and Safety shall, during the first six months
following the declaration of an emergency, have the authority to issue a
temporary 90-day permit on any lot, regardless of zone, for any temporary use
which will aid in the immediate restoration of an area adversely impacted by
a severe fire, storm, earthquake, similar natural disaster, or a civil or
military disturbance, and declared by the Governor as an emergency area,
provided that the department shall maintain records of all temporary permits.



 



 



SEC. 16.04.2.  ACTIVATION AND TERMINATION OF EFFECT.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)



 



   The provisions of this article shall be applicable to a particular area
upon the declaration of an emergency pursuant to Chapter 7 of Division 1 of
Title 2 of the Government Code by the Governor relating to that area.  The
provisions of this article shall cease to be applicable to a particular area
two years following the date of declaration of emergency, and for one
additional year if an extension is approved by the City Council, provided,
however, that the provisions of this article shall be considered as still
remaining in full force and effect thereafter for the purpose of maintaining
or defending any civil or criminal proceeding with respect to any right,
liability or offense that may have arisen under the provisions of this
article during its operative period, or with respect to enforcing any
condition of approval of the temporary land use permit.  The City Council
may also extend by resolution any other time limits in this article for one
additional year.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 6.1
REVIEW OF DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS



 



 



Section



16.05   Site Plan Review.



16.10   Green Building Program.



16.11   Green Building Team.



16.50   Design Review Board Procedures.



 



 



SEC. 16.05.  SITE PLAN REVIEW.



   (Renumbered and amended by Ord. No. 166,127, Eff. 9/23/90, Oper.
10/13/90.)



 



   A.   Purpose.  The purposes of site plan review are to promote
orderly development, evaluate and mitigate significant environmental impacts,
and promote public safety and the general welfare by ensuring that
development projects are properly related to their sites, surrounding
properties, traffic circulation, sewers, other infrastructure and
environmental setting; and to control or mitigate the development of projects
which are likely to have a significant adverse effect on the environment as
identified in the City’s environmental review process, or on surrounding
properties by reason of inadequate site planning or improvements.



 



   B.   Definitions.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,754, Eff. 3/5/01.) 
For the purpose of this section, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings specified below.  Other terms used in this section shall have
the meanings set forth in Section 12.03 of this Code if defined there.



 



   1.   Development Project.  The construction of, addition to, or
alteration of, any building or structure, or a change of use of an existing
building or structure that requires a building permit and that results in an
increase in floor area, or a net increase in average daily vehicle trips as
determined by using trip generation factors promulgated by the Department of
Transportation for the purpose of effectuating this section.



 



   2.   Discretionary Approval.  (Amended by Ord. No. 184,827, Eff.
3/24/17.)  An approval initiated by application of a property owner or
representative related to the use of land including, but not limited to a:



 



   (a)   zone change;



 



   (b)   height district change;



 



   (c)   supplemental use district;



 



   (d)   conditional use approval;



 



   (e)   use, area or height variance;



 



   (f)   parcel map;



 



   (g)    tentative tract map;



 



   (h)   coastal development permit;



 



   (i)   development agreement;



 



   (j)   adjustments;



 



   (k)   density bonus greater than the minimums pursuant to Government
Code Section 65915;



 



   (l)   density transfer plan;



 



   (m)   exception from a geographically specific plan;



 



   (n)   project permit pursuant to a moratorium or interim control
ordinance;



 



   (o)   public benefit projects; or



 



   (p)   floor area deviation of less than 50,000 square feet pursuant
to 14.5.7 of Article 4.5 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.



 



   (q)   single-family dwelling with a cumulative Residential Floor
Area of 17,500 square feet or larger within the HCR District pursuant to
13.20 of Article 3 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.



 



   3.   Fast-food Establishment.  Any establishment which dispenses
food for consumption on or off the premises, and which has the following
characteristics:  a limited menu, items prepared in advance or prepared or
heated quickly, no table orders, and food served in disposable wrapping or
containers.



 



   C.   Requirements.



 



   1.   Site Plan Review.  (Amended by Ord. No. 184,827, Eff.
3/24/17.)  No grading permit, foundation permit, building permit, or use of
land permit shall be issued for any of the following development projects
unless a site plan approval has first been obtained pursuant to this
section.  This provision shall apply to individual projects for which
permits are sought and also to the cumulative sum of related or successive
permits which are part of a larger project, such as piecemeal additions to a
building, or multiple buildings on a lot, as determined by the Director.



 



   (a)   Any development project which creates, or results in an
increase of, 50,000 gross square feet or more of nonresidential floor area.



 



   (b)   Any development project which creates, or results in an
increase of, 50 or more dwelling units or guest rooms, or combination thereof.



 



   (c)   Any change of use to a Drive-Through Fast-food Establishment
or any change of use to a Fast-food Establishment, either of which results in
a net increase of 500 or more average daily trips as determined by, and using
the trip generation factors promulgated by the Department of Transportation.



 



   (d)   Any change of use other than to a Drive-Through Fast-food
Establishment or to a Fast-food Establishment which results in a net increase
of 1,000 or more average daily trips as determined by, and using the trip
generation factors promulgated by the Department of Transportation.



 



   (e)   (Deleted by Ord. No. 186,325, Eff. 11/11/19.)



 



   (f)   Any single-family residential development with a cumulative
Residential Floor Area of 17,500 square feet or larger located in the HCR
District.



 



   This subdivision shall not apply to one-family dwellings located
outside of a HCR District.



 



   2.   Enforcement.  No grading permit foundation permit, building
permit, or certificate of occupancy shall be issued for a development project
approved under this site plan review process unless the project meets all
requirements and conditions of the site plan approval. Permits issued in
error shall be treated as specified in Section 11.02 of this Code. If the
development project approval authorized by this section is utilized, the
conditions of that approval become effective immediately. The violation of
any such condition shall constitute a violation of this chapter and shall be
subject to the same penalties as any other violation of this Code.



 



   D.   Exemptions.  (Amended by Ord. No. 172,489, Eff. 4/16/99.)



 



   1.   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.) Unless made
discretionary by any other provision of law, the approval of any building
permit for a development project which does not exceed the thresholds set
forth in this subsection and Section 12.24U14 is ministerial and exempt from
the requirements of the California Environmental Quality Act.



 



   2.   Any development project with a still-valid discretionary
approval, including but not limited to those listed in Subsection B.2. of
this section, shall be exempt from site plan review only if the applicable
decision-making body determines in writing that the prior discretionary
approval, and the required environmental review, considered significant
aspects of the approved project's design (such as, but not limited to,
building location, height, density, use, parking, access) and that the
existing environmental documentation under the California Environmental
Quality Act is adequate for the issuance of the present permit in light of
the conditions specified in Section 21166 of the California Public Resources
Code.  The Department of City Planning may require supplements to the
environmental documentation to maintain its currentness.  The Director is
authorized to establish procedures to process determinations required under
this subdivision.  (Amended by Ord. No. 177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.)



 



   3.   Any development project located within the boundaries of a
Redevelopment Project Area with an Unexpired Redevelopment Plan, as defined
in Section 11.5.14, shall be exempt from site plan review when:  (Amended by
Ord. No. 186,325, Eff. 11/11/19.)



 



   (a)   The Community Redevelopment Agency of the City of Los Angeles
(CRA) and the City Council approved an owner participation agreement, a
disposition and development agreement, a loan agreement, a cooperation
agreement or other discretionary agreement for the development project prior
to February 1, 2012; and



 



   (b)   The project was considered during a public hearing prior to
February 1, 2012, conducted in accordance with the CRA's adopted policies and
procedures for public hearings.



 



   4.   Any development project within a specific plan area for which
an EIR was certified by the City Council not more than six years prior to the
date of the present application for a building permit.  The date of the
application shall be the date on which architectural and structural plans
sufficient for a complete plan check are accepted by the Department of
Building and Safety.  This exemption shall be applicable only if the
Director determines in writing that the EIR considered significant aspects of
the approved project’s design (such as, but not limited to, building
location, height, density, use, parking, access) and that it is adequate for
the issuance of the present permit.  The Director is hereby authorized to
establish procedures to process determinations.



 



   5.   Any development project on a motion picture and/or television
production lot that is industrially or commercially zoned and is enclosed by
a minimum six foot high wall or other barrier (such as building walls,
fences, topographical barrier, etc.) which separates the facility and the
development from adjacent properties.  However, all new office uses shall be
directly related to motion picture and/or television production and shall not
be rented or leased to other entities not directly related to motion picture
and/or television production uses.



 



   6.   Adaptive Reuse Projects in the Downtown Project Area pursuant
to Section 12.22 A.26.  (Added by Ord. No. 172,571, Eff. 6/3/99.)



 



   7.   Any residential (including Apartment Hotel or mixed use)
building located within the Greater Downtown Housing Incentive Area that is
subject to Section 12.22 A.30. of this Code.  (Added by Ord. No. 181,557,
Eff. 3/15/11.)



 



   8.   A Qualified Permanent Supportive Housing Project as defined in
Section 14.00 A.11.(a)(1) of this Code and containing no more than 120 units,
or no more than 200 units if it is located either in the Greater Downtown
Housing Incentive Area or on a lot with a general plan land use designation
of Regional Center Commercial, Regional Commercial, or Regional Mixed
Commercial.  (Added by Ord. No. 185,492, Eff. 5/28/18.)



 



   E.   Directors Authority.



 



   1.   The Director or his/her designee shall have the authority to
approve, conditionally approve, or deny site plan approval for development
projects specified in Section 16.05 C. above in accordance with the purpose
and provisions of this section.



 



   2.   In granting site plan approval, the Director may condition
and/or modify the project, or select an alternative project, as he or she
deems necessary to implement the general or specific plan and to mitigate
significant adverse effects of the development project on the environment and
surrounding areas.



 



   3.   The Director is authorized to designate one or more members of
the professional staff of the Department of City Planning to perform any of
the Director’s duties under this section. The Director shall establish
administrative methods, guidelines, procedures, and forms as may be necessary
to conduct the review and render a decision expeditiously, prior to
processing any site plan review application.



 



   4.   The Director shall not approve or conditionally approve a site
plan review for a development project unless an appropriate environmental
review clearance has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of
CEQA.  (Amended by Ord. No. 185,052, Eff. 8/14/17.)



 



   F.   In granting an approval, the Director, or the Area Planning
Commission on appeal, shall find:  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,095, Eff.
5/7/12.)



 



   1.   that the project is in substantial conformance with the
purposes, intent and provisions of the General Plan, applicable community
plan, and any applicable specific plan;



 



   2.   that the project consists of an arrangement of buildings and
structures (including height, bulk and setbacks), off-street parking
facilities, loading areas, lighting, landscaping, trash collection, and other
such pertinent improvements, that is or will be compatible with existing and
future development on adjacent properties and neighboring properties; and



 



   3.   that any residential project provides recreational and service
amenities to improve habitability for its residents and minimize impacts on
neighboring properties.



 



   G.   Procedure.



 



   1.   Site Plan Review Application.  Application for the site plan
review shall be filed in any public office of the Department of City
Planning, upon such forms and accompanied by applicable fees, a site plan
drawn to scale, and other information prescribed by the Director for that
purpose. The application shall be verified by either the property owner,
lessee, owner in escrow, or a legally authorized agent.



 



   2.   Environmental Review.  As part of the application for site
plan review, the applicant shall file necessary forms and information for
environmental review as prescribed by the Director.  The Director, or
his/her designee, shall cause to be prepared, concurrently with the review
and approval of the site plan, the required environmental studies and notices
for the project.  (Amended by Ord. No. 185,052, Eff. 8/14/17.)



 



   3.   Notice – Hearing – Time Limits.



 



   (a)   The Director shall refer all completed applications for site
plan review to affected City departments for their review and report.
Responses shall be returned within fifteen (15) days after receipt, or such
other period agreed to by the Director and the affected department. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 186,325, Eff. 11/11/19.)



 



   (b)   If the Director finds that the matter may have a significant
effect on neighboring properties, the Director shall set the matter for
public hearing.  If the application is set for public hearing, written
notice of the hearing shall be sent by First Class Mail at least fifteen (15)
days prior to the hearing to the applicant, owners and tenants of the
property involved, owners and tenants of all property within 100 feet of the
boundary of the subject site, the City Councilmembers representing the area
in which the property is located, and any organization representing property
owners or the community in the project vicinity if they request in writing to
be notified.  Notice shall also be given by at least one publication in a
newspaper of general circulation in the City, designated for that purpose by
the City Clerk, not less than fifteen (15) days prior to the date of the
hearing.  (Amended by Ord. No. 186,325, Eff. 11/11/19.)



 



   (c)   The Director shall grant, conditionally grant or deny site
plan approval within sixty (60) days after:



 



   (1)   the date of filing of an application, or



 



   (2)   where an EIR is required, the date the EIR is certified as
complete.



 



   This time limit may be extended up to forty-five (45) days by mutual
consent of the applicant and the Director. The time limit shall also be
extended if necessary to prepare and process an EIR, as provided in Section
12.25A of this Code.



 



   (d)   The Director shall send notice of the determination to the
applicant and the interested parties listed in Section 16.05G3(b) of the
determination by First Class Mail. Failure to receive notice shall not
invalidate any action taken pursuant to this section.  (Amended by Ord. No.
172,489, Eff. 4/16/99.)



 



   4.   Determination Effective – Appeal.  The determination of the
Director shall become final after an elapsed period of fifteen (15) days from
the date of mailing of the determination to the applicant, unless a written
appeal is filed within such period as provided in Subsection 16.05H. The
Director shall notify the Department of Building and Safety of the final
approval of site plan review.



 



   5.   Failure to Act - Transfer of Jurisdiction.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 173,374, Eff. 8/3/00.)  If the Director fails to make a decision on an
application within the time limit specified in this subsection, the applicant
may file a request for transfer of jurisdiction to the Area Planning
Commission, in which case the Director shall lose jurisdiction. The Area
Planning Commission shall consider the matter following the same procedures
and limitations as are applicable to the Director.  A request for transfer
of jurisdiction may be filed in any public office of the Department of City
Planning.



 



   6.   (Deleted by Ord. No. 182,106, Eff. 5/20/12.)



 



   H.   Appeals.



 



   1.   Authority.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)  The Area Planning Commission of the area in which the property is
located shall have the authority to decide appeals from site plan review
decisions made by the Director.  Prior to deciding an appeal, the Area
Planning Commission shall hold a hearing or direct a hearing officer to do so.



 



   2.   Filing an Appeal.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00,
Oper. 7/1/00.)  The applicant, any officer, board, department, or bureau of
the City, or any interested person aggrieved by the decision of the Director
may file an appeal to the Area Planning Commission.  Appeals shall be in
writing and shall set forth specifically the reasons why the decision should
not be upheld.  Appeals shall be filed in any public office of the
Department of City Planning, upon required forms and accompanied by
applicable fees, within 15 days of the mailing of the decision to the
applicant.  An appeal not properly or timely filed shall not be accepted.



 



   3.   Hearing Notice.  (Amended by Ord. No. 185,052, Eff.
8/14/17.)  Upon receipt of the appeal application, the Area Planning
Commission Secretary shall set the matter for a public hearing to be held
within 75 days of the filing of the appeal.  The Secretary shall give notice
of the hearing to the appellant and to all the other parties specified in
Subsection G.3.(b) above, within the time and in the manner specified in that
subsection.



 



   4.   Decision.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)  The Area Planning Commission shall render its decision in writing
within 15 days after completion of the hearing.  The Area Planning
Commission may sustain or reverse any decision of the Director, and may
establish additional conditions to conform with the findings required in
Subsection F.  The decision shall be in writing and based upon evidence in
the record, including testimony and documents produced at the hearing before
the Area Planning Commission, and supported by additional findings as may be
required by Section 16.05 F. above.  If the Area Planning Commission fails
to act within the time specified, the action of the Director shall be final.



 



   5.   Notice.  The Secretary shall notify the Department of Building
and Safety of final appeal decisions.



 



   I.   Alternative Thresholds.  (Amended by Ord. No. 172,489, Eff.
4/16/99.)  A different threshold from that indicated in Section 16.05 C. of
this Code may be established within a Community Plan or Specific Plan, or
portion thereof, when specifically stated in the plan text and only when the
plan area contains one or more of the following:



 



   1.   A transportation impacted area;



 



   2.   An environmentally sensitive area;



 



   3.   An historically sensitive area; or



 



   4.   Any other area of special significance which is clearly
identified as to its significance and the need for a different threshold
level.



 



   J.   Severability.  If any provision or clause of this ordinance or
the application thereof to any person or circumstance is held to be
unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction,
such invalidity shall not affect other ordinance provisions, clauses or
applications thereof which can be implemented without the invalid provision,
clause or application, and to this end the provisions and clauses of this
ordinance are declared to be severable.



 



SEC. 16.10.  GREEN BUILDING PROGRAM.



   (Added by Ord. No. 179,820, Eff. 5/29/08.)



 



   A.   Establishment of Program and Purpose.  There is established a
Green Building Program, which shall be administered by the Green Building
Team pursuant to the provisions of Section 16.11 of this Code.  The purpose
of the Green Building Program is to reduce the use of natural resources,
create healthier living environments and minimize the negative impacts of
development on local, regional, and global ecosystems.  The program consists
of a Standard of Sustainability and Standard of Sustainable Excellence.  The
program addresses five key areas:



 



   1.   Site:  location, site planning, landscaping, storm water
management, construction and demolition recycling;



 



   2.   Water Efficiency:  efficient fixtures, wastewater reuse, and
efficient irrigation;



 



   3.   Energy & Atmosphere:  energy efficiency, and clean/renewable
energy;



 



   4.   Materials & Resources:  materials reuse, efficient building
systems, and use of recycled and rapidly renewable materials; and



 



   5.   Indoor Environmental Quality:  improved indoor air quality,
increased natural lighting, and improved thermal comfort/control.



 



   B.   Building Permit Issuance.  No building permit shall be issued
for the following categories of Projects unless the Project meets the intent
of the criteria for certification pursuant to Subsections D. or E. of this
section as determined by the Department of City Planning.



 



   1.   A new non-residential building or structure of 50,000 gross
square feet or more of floor area; or



 



   2.   A new mixed use or residential building of 50,000 gross square
feet or more of floor area in excess of six stories; or



 



   3.   A new mixed use or residential building of six or fewer stories
consisting of at least 50 dwelling units in a building, which has at least
50,000 gross square feet of floor area, and in which at least 80 percent of
the building’s floor area is dedicated to residential uses; or



 



   4.   The alteration or rehabilitation of 50,000 gross square feet or
more of floor area in an existing non-residential building for which
construction costs exceed a valuation of 50 percent of the replacement cost
of the existing building; or



 



   5.   The alteration of at least 50 dwelling units in an existing
mixed use or residential building, which has at least 50,000 gross square
feet of floor area, for which construction costs exceed a valuation of 50
percent of the replacement cost of the existing building.



 



   C.   Definitions.  For the purpose of this section, the following
words and phrases are defined as follows:



 



   1.   Historic Resource.  A building, structure or site that is any
of the following:  a City Historic- Cultural Monument; listed in or formally
determined eligible for the National Register of Historic Places or
California Register of Historical Resources; a Contributing Element to a
Historic Preservation Overlay Zone (HPOZ); or identified in an adopted
historic resources survey as eligible for designation.



 



   2.   LEED®.  Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design, a
rating system put forth by the U.S. Green Building Council that is the
nationally accepted benchmark for the design, construction and operation of
high performance green buildings.



 



   3.   LEED®-AP.  A person who has been designated a LEED®
Accredited Professional by the Green Building Certification Institute (GBCI).



 



   4.   LEED® Design Review.  The review of eligible credits by the
USGBC using the project’s 100 percent construction documents, which are
sufficient for a complete plan check by the Department of Building and
Safety.  The USGBC will review and mark each credit including credits for
“Innovation and Design” as either Credit Achievement Anticipated or
Credit Denied.



 



   5.   Project.  The construction of, addition to, or alteration of
any building or structure that requires a building permit and meets the
criteria established in Subsection B. of this section.



 



   6.   USGBC.  The U.S. Green Building Council.



 



   D.   Standard of Sustainability.



 



   1.   Rating System.  The applicant shall demonstrate that the
Project meets the intent of the criteria for certification at the LEED®
certified level.  The Project may be submitted for compliance in whichever
LEED® rating system the applicant deems most suitable to the Project type: 
LEED®-NC (New Construction), EB (Existing Buildings), CI (Commercial
Interiors), Core & Shell, or Homes.  The Project shall use the version of
the rating system in effect on the date that plans are submitted to the
Department of Building and Safety and a fee is paid, unless the applicant has
elected to register the Project with the USGBC, in which case the Project may
use the rating system’s version which was in effect at the time the Project
registered.  Formal certification by the USGBC is not required.



 



   2.   Procedures.  No building permit shall be issued for any
Project subject to the provisions of this subsection unless the Project has
been reviewed and the plans are stamped approved by the Director  for
LEED®  compliance.  The review shall be based on Guidelines established by
the Director and revised as necessary.  In order to obtain this  approval,
the applicant shall provide:



 



   a.   A LEED® checklist, including points allocated to the
“Innovation and Design” category, which demonstrates that the Project
meets the selected LEED® Rating System at the “Certified” level or
higher;



 



   b.   A signed declaration from the LEED®- AP member of the Project
team, stating that the plans and plan details have been reviewed, and that
the Project meets the intent of the criteria for certification of the
selected LEED® Rating System at the “Certified” level or higher;



 



   c.   A complete set of plans stamped and signed by a licensed
architect or engineer that includes a copy of the preliminary checklist and
signed declaration identified in Paragraphs a. and b. of this subdivision and
identifies the measures being provided for LEED® compliance.  Each plan
sheet must also be signed by a LEED®-AP verifying that the plans are
consistent with the submitted checklist; and



 



   d.   The fee set forth in Section 19.01 Y.  A Project may be exempt
from paying the fee if the following additional information is provided:



 



   (1)   Documentation that the Project has registered with the
USGBC’s LEED® program and that the required fees have been paid to USGBC;
and



 



   (2)   Documentation that the Project has successfully completed the
USGBC’s LEED® Design Review process.



 



   3.   Termination.  The provisions of Subsections A., B., C. and D.
shall be repealed and terminate on December 31, 2010.  (Added by Ord. No.
181,479, Eff. 12/27/10.)



 



   E.   Standard of Sustainable Excellence.  Projects that voluntarily
commit to LEED® Certification at the Silver Level or higher shall receive
expedited processing from the Department of City Planning.



 



   1.   Procedures for Expedited Processing.  An applicant seeking to
obtain expedited processing of discretionary entitlements from the Department
of City Planning shall provide:



 



   a.   A signed declaration from the property owner, owner in escrow,
or a legally authorized agent as well as the LEED®-AP;



 



   b.   Documentation that the Project has registered with the USGBC
and that the required fees have been paid to USGBC;



 



   c.   The Project’s preliminary LEED® checklist that demonstrates
that the number of points that the project intends to pursue will make it
eligible to obtain LEED® Silver Certification.



 



   2.   Building Permit Issuance.  No building permit shall be issued
for any Project that has received expedited services specified in Subdivision
1. above unless the project has been reviewed and the plans are stamped
approved by the Director for LEED compliance.  The review shall be based on
Guidelines established by the Director and revised as necessary.  In order
to obtain this clearance, the applicant shall provide:



 



   a.   A LEED® checklist, including points allocated to the
“Innovation and Design” category, from a USGBC LEED®-AP, which
demonstrates that the Project meets the selected LEED® Rating System at the
“Silver” level or higher;



 



   b.   A signed declaration from the LEED®-AP stating that the plans
and plan details have been reviewed, and that the Project meets the intent of
the criteria for certification of the selected LEED® Rating System at the
“Silver” level or higher;



 



   c.   A complete set of plans stamped and signed by a licensed
architect or engineer that includes a copy of the preliminary checklist and
signed declaration identified in Paragraphs a. and b. of this subdivision and
identifies the measures being provided for LEED® Silver or higher
Certification.  Each plan sheet must also be signed by a LEED®-AP verifying
that the plans are consistent with the submitted checklist; and



 



   d.   The fee set forth in Section 19.01 Y.  A Project may be exempt
from paying the fee if documentation is provided that the Project has
successfully completed the USGBC’s LEED® Design Review process.



 



   3.   Termination and Replacement.  The reference to the U.S. Green
Building Council's (USGBC) Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design
(LEED®) Certification at the Silver level or higher described in Subsection
E. shall no longer apply to projects filed on or after January 1, 2011. 
Projects filed on or after January 1, 2011, must satisfy LA Green Building
Code, as defined in Los Angeles Municipal Code Section 99.01.101.1, Tier 1 or
higher in order to obtain expedited processing as described in Subsection
5.  (Added by Ord. No. 181,479, Eff. 12/27/10.)



 



   F.   Exemptions.  The provisions of this section shall not apply to
any of the following Projects:



 



   1.   A Historic Resource, if the Department of City Planning finds
that full LEED® compliance would require alterations that conflict with the
Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for the Treatment of Historic
Properties.  In those cases, a LEED®-AP shall assert in writing that the
Project has incorporated all other reasonable measures to achieve LEED®
compliance, while avoiding adverse impacts to the Historic Resource’s
character-defining features.



 



   2.   Any Project where plans were accepted by the Department of
Building and Safety for plan check and the appropriate fee is paid prior to
November 1, 2008, provided no changes were made to the Project that would
increase the floor area by more than five percent.  This exception shall no
longer be valid if construction is not commenced within one year of the date
of issuance of the permit.



 



   3.   Any entitlement application for a Project filed and deemed
complete with the exception of CEQA review prior to November 1, 2008,
provided no changes are made to the application that would increase the floor
area by more than five percent.



 



   4.   Any residential or mixed use Project of six or fewer stories
where plans were accepted by the Department of Building and Safety for plan
check and the appropriate fee is paid prior to May 1, 2009, provided no
changes were made to the Project which increase the floor area by more than
five percent.  This exception shall no longer be valid if construction is
not commenced within one year of the date of issuance of the permit.



 



   5.   Any entitlement application for a residential or mixed use
Project of six or fewer stories filed and deemed complete with the exception
of CEQA review prior to May 1, 2009, provided no changes are made to the
application that would increase the floor area by more than five percent.



 



   6.   Termination.  The provisions of Section 16.10 shall be
repealed and terminate on December 31, 2010.  (Added by Ord. No. 181,479,
Eff. 12/27/10.)



 



 



SEC. 16.11.  GREEN BUILDING TEAM.



(Added by Ord. No. 179,820, Eff. 5/29/08.)



 



   The Green Building Team’s mission is to encourage innovation, to
remove obstacles to green building, and to facilitate the City’s
sustainable green building objectives.



 



   A.   Composition.  (Amended by Ord. No. 186,325, Eff. 11/11/19.) 
The Green Building Team shall be composed of the following officers of the
City or their duly authorized representatives:



 



   The Mayor's Office, as Chairperson;



 



   City Council President, as co-chairperson;



 



   Chairperson, Energy and Environment Committee of the City Council, as
co-chairperson;



 



   Chairperson, Planning and Land Use Management Committee of the City
Council, as co-chairperson;



 



   Chief Legislative Analyst;



 



   The Director of Planning;



 



   The City Engineer;



 



   The Superintendent of Building;



 



   The Chief Engineer of the Department of Fire;



 



   The Chief Executive Officer and General Manager of the Department of
Water and Power;



 



   The General Manager of the Housing & Community Investment Department;
and



 



   The Director of the Bureau of Sanitation of the Department of Public
Works.



 



   Officers or their authorized representatives from additional
departments shall participate as needed and may include:



 



   The City Attorney;



 



   The General Manager of the Department of Transportation;



 



   The Director of the Bureau of Street Services of the Department of
Public Works;



 



   The Director of the Division of Urban Forestry of the Bureau of Street
Services of the Department of Public Works;



 



   The General Manager of the Harbor; and



 



   The General Manager of the Los Angeles World Airport.



 



   B.   Relationship with Other Agencies.  The Team shall invite
representatives of the County of Los Angeles, the Metropolitan Transit
Authority, Los Angeles Community Colleges, Los Angeles Unified School
District, the Southern California Gas Company, and other agencies to
participate as issues warrant.



 



   C.   Responsibilities.



 



   1.   Meetings.  The Green Building Team shall hold regular public
meetings on a monthly basis.  The initial meeting shall be convened by the
Chairperson.  The posting of public notices, and the taking and reporting of
minutes shall be the responsibility of the Chief Legislative Analyst.



 



   2.   Reports.  The Team shall provide an annual report to the City
Council as to the issues and innovations that have been brought to the
Team’s attention and shall further outline proposed steps to remediate any
concerns and obstacles to green building development and/or innovations. 
The Team shall establish a process for identifying and tracking all LEED®
certified developments in the City.  Prior to April 22nd of each year, the
Team shall issue a Green Building Report Card, which recognizes green
building developments the Team determines to be of significance.



 



   3.   Legislative Recommendations.  The Team shall review and
suggest modifications to the City’s Codes on an on-going basis, to promote
green building construction, and to facilitate the City’s sustainable green
building objectives.



 



   4.  Recommendations for Standard of Sustainability.  The Team shall
review in alternate years, the thresholds and corresponding green building
standard(s) by which projects are required to comply with the Standard of
Sustainability.  The Team shall recommend any necessary adjustments to the
Department of City Planning for preparation of appropriate code amendment(s).



 



   5.   Standard of Sustainable Excellence.  The Team shall review
annually the incentives and their effectiveness in encouraging projects to
pursue the Standard of Sustainable Excellence.  The Team shall make
recommendations to the appropriate board or commission should alternative
incentives be advised.



 



   6.   Staff Education.  The Team shall record the educational
efforts achieved by each department on an annual basis and report this
information to the City Council.



 



   7.   Public Outreach.  The Team and, in particular, the Chairperson
and Co-Chairpersons, shall be the City’s public spokespersons in regards to
any and all issues relative to private sector green building.  The Team
shall develop and maintain a public outreach program for, but not limited to,
architects, engineers, developers, land use attorneys, contractors, builders,
employers, and City residents.



 



   D.   Termination.  The provisions of Subsection F. shall be
repealed and terminate on December 31, 2010.  (Added by Ord. No. 181,479,
Eff. 12/27/10.)



 



 



SEC. 16.50.  DESIGN REVIEW BOARD PROCEDURES.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)



 



   A.   Purpose and Objectives.  The role of design review boards is
to evaluate the placement of mass, form, spatial elements and overall quality
of the design of proposed projects based on defined objectives established in
specific plans.  Design review boards should assist the City
decision-makers, the community, private developers, property owners, and
design professionals in implementing the design goals of communities
contained within specific plan boundaries.



 



   The objectives of this section are as follows:



 



   1.   To establish uniform citywide procedures for design review
within specific plan areas;



 



   2.   To establish uniform citywide authority for design review
boards to advise the Director, and/or the Area Planning Commission on aspects
of exterior design, site layout and landscape, signs, and other design
elements governed by a specific plan;



 



   3.   To promote the general welfare of the community;



 



   4.   To protect the community from the adverse effects of poor
design; and



 



   5.   To encourage good professional design practices and quality
exterior design and appearance to improve the community and surrounding area.



 



   B.   Relationship To Provisions Of Specific Plans.  The provisions
of this section do not convey any rights not otherwise granted under the
provisions and procedures contained in any specific plan, except as
specifically provided.



 



   If any procedure established in a specific plan governing a design
review board created by or authorized to act pursuant to the specific plan,
differs from any procedure set forth in this section, the provisions of this
section shall prevail.



 



   C.   Design Review Determination.  The initial decision-maker shall
be the Director for all design review decisions.  These decisions shall be
appealable to the Area Planning Commission which has jurisdiction over the
property involved.



 



   D.   Design Review Boards.



 



   1.   Authority.



 



   (a)   Notwithstanding any provisions of a specific plan to the
contrary, no design review required by a specific plan shall be recommended
for approval by a design review board or approved by the Director except as
provided in this section.



 



   (b)   No building permit shall be issued for any building or
structure regulated by a specific plan where design review is required,
unless the Director has reviewed and approved the project after finding that
the project complies with the design criteria and guidelines set forth in the
specific plan and after considering the recommendation of the design review
board, if any.  If no design review board has been appointed, the Planning
Department shall review the application and make its recommendation to the
Director.



 



   (c)   Design review boards shall review applications and
accompanying materials in relation to compliance with the design components
and criteria set forth in this section, any applicable specific plan and
adopted design guidelines, and provide their recommendations to the Director.



 



   2.   Name of Board.  Each design review board shall have, as part
of its name, words linking it to its area of administration and
distinguishing it from other similar associations and boards.



 



   3.   Number of Members and Composition of Membership.



 



   (a)   Number of Members.  Design review boards shall consist of a
minimum of five and maximum of seven voting members.



 



   (b)   Appointment of Members.  With the exception of the Mulholland
Specific Plan, the members of design review boards shall be appointed by the
councilmember(s) of the council district(s) in which the specific plan area
is located.



 



   (c)   Composition of Membership.  Unless otherwise specifically
required in a specific plan, to the maximum extent practicable, each design
review board shall be composed of two architects and two professionals from
the following or related fields:  planning, urban design, and landscape
architecture.  The remaining member or members need not be design
professionals.  All members shall reside, operate a business, or be employed
within the specific plan area.  If no eligible person is known to be
available for appointment in the designated disciplines who resides, operates
a business, or is employed within the specific plan area, then the
councilmember(s) may make the appointment from the community plan area(s) in
which the specific plan area is located.  If a specific plan is located in
more than one community plan area, then the members may be chosen from any of
those community plan areas.



 



   If the design review board area is represented by more than one
councilmember, then the President of the City Council shall, to the extent
feasible, determine the number of members appointed by the councilmember of
each council district, based on the percentage of design review board area
located in each council district.



 



   4.   Terms of Membership.  A term of office of a member of a design
review board shall be four years.  The members of design review boards shall
be appointed to staggered terms so that at least one term becomes vacant on
each successive year.  The chairperson and vice-chairperson shall be elected
annually by a majority of the design review board members.



 



   5.   Vacancies.  In the event of a vacancy occurring during the
term of a design review board member, the councilmember(s) who appointed the
member, or the councilmember(s)’ successor, shall make an appointment to
serve the unexpired term of that member.  Where the member is required to
have specific qualifications, the vacancy shall be filled by a person having
similar qualifications.



 



   6.   Expiration of Term.  Upon expiration of the term of any member
of the design review board, the appointment for the next succeeding term
shall be made by the appointing authority.  No member of a Board shall serve
more than two consecutive four year terms.  Members of the board whose terms
have expired shall remain members until their replacements have been
appointed.



 



   7.   Organization.  Design review boards shall hold regular
meetings at fixed times within the month with a minimum of two meetings a
month.  Meetings may be canceled if no applications which have been deemed
complete are received at least 14 calendar days prior to the next scheduled
meeting.



 



   8.   Quorum.  The presence of a simple majority of the members
shall constitute a quorum.  If a design review board cannot obtain a quorum
for action within the stated time limits, the application shall be
transferred forthwith to the Director for action with no recommendation from
the design review board.  An action by the board requires a majority vote of
the members of the board.



 



   E.   Design Review Procedure.  The design review process may,
pursuant to Subdivision 3 of this subsection, be conducted in two steps
consisting of an optional preliminary review and a mandatory final review. 
An applicant may request a technical review by the Land Development
Counseling Center (LDCC) or its equivalent, for clarification of requirements
of the Los Angeles Municipal Code or applicable specific plan.



 



   1.   Application.  All applications for design review shall be
submitted to the Department of City Planning on a form supplied by the
Department.



 



   (a)   If an applicant requests an optional preliminary design
review, the following materials must be submitted in addition to any material
required by applicable specific plans or ordinances:



 



   Conceptual drawings without finished details and plans and materials
which include, but are not limited to the following:



 



   (1)   Proposed site plan showing proposed improvements;



 



   (2)   Building elevations;



 



   (3)   General description of materials and colors to be used;



 



   (4)   Proposed landscape plan;



 



   (5)   Photographs of the site and surrounding properties;



 



   (6)   Information on existing trees on the site and within 20 feet
of the property; and



 



   (7)   Additional information that demonstrates adherence to the
specific plan design criteria.



 



   (b)   An application for a mandatory final review shall be deemed
complete only if it includes, in addition to any material required in the
applicable specific plan or ordinance, the following materials:



 



   (1)   Drawings with finished details;



 



   (2)   Environmental review clearance;



 



   (3)   Results of technical review, if required;



 



   (4)   Written narrative addressing specific plan design criteria and
guidelines - and a finding of the project’s consistency with either the
Specific Plan or an approved Specific Plan Exception;



 



   (5)   Vicinity map of appropriate scale, indicating the location of
the project site in relation to nearby access streets, significant physical
features of the project, and other relevant issues affecting the project. 
Where possible, the map shall show the location of buildings on adjoining
properties having a bearing on the project;



 



   (6)   Color photographs of the site and surrounding area and
buildings to clearly represent the context of the design;



 



   (7)   Site plan of appropriate scale that clearly represents all the
features of the site and significant design issues;



 



   (8)   Plans of appropriate scale, including all significant items or
floor levels necessary to clearly represent design intent;



 



   (9)   Elevations of appropriate scale, including all sides of the
item or building to clearly represent design intent;



 



   (10)   Sections, as deemed necessary by the architect or designer,
of appropriate scale to clearly represent design intent;



 



   (11)   Either perspective drawings or model material sample board to
be presented at the design review board meeting;



 



   (12)   Sign plan, if applicable, indicating proposed sign(s) and all
existing signs on the property;



 



   (13)   Landscape plans which shall include the approximate size,
maturity and location of all plant materials, the scientific and common names
of the plant materials, the proposed irrigation plan, and the estimated
planting schedule.  The plan shall specify the length of time required to
attain plant maturity; and



   (14)   Mailing labels with the names of the owners of all properties
abutting, across the street or alley from, or having a common corner with the
subject property.  Should these properties not be owner-occupied, mailing
labels shall also be provided for the occupants.



 



   (c)   Before the acceptance of the completed application for a
mandatory final review, the Department of City Planning shall review the
proposal for compliance with the provisions and intent of the applicable
specific plan or ordinances under which the design review board has been
established.  An application shall not be deemed incomplete for failure of
the proposed project to meet the requirements of the applicable specific
plan.  Note, however, if the project is not in compliance with these
requirements, the project will be denied unless it is redesigned or
appropriate relief is secured.



 



   In addition, prior to submitting a complete application, the applicant
may request a technical review by the LDCC.  If this review is requested,
the LDCC may require further materials and plans to be submitted to
facilitate that review.



 



   (d)   No building permit shall be issued until a copy of the plans
for the proposed project, stamped by the Planning Department as approved by
the Director, is made available to the Department of Building and Safety to
be included with the field set of approved plans.



 



   2.   Fees.



 



   (a)   The filing fee for processing an optional preliminary
application shall be one-half of the fee for processing a design review
application.



 



   (b)   The filing fee for processing an optional technical review
requested by the applicant shall be as set forth in Section 19.09.



 



   (c)   The filing fee for processing a final design review
application shall be as set forth in Section 19.01.



 



   (d)   The filing fee for processing an applicant’s appeal from the
Director’s decision shall be the fee for an appeal from a specific plan
design review decision as set forth in Section 19.01.  The filing fee for
processing an appeal by a person other than the applicant shall be as
provided in Section 19.01K2.



 



   (e)   The filing fee for processing a modification to a design
review determination, if requested by the applicant, shall be one-half of the
fee for processing a final design review application.



 



   3.   Design Review Process.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,455, Eff.
9/22/00.)



 



   (a)   Optional Preliminary Design Review.  An applicant may request
a preliminary design review to consult with the design review board for
advice on the design of a proposed project.  The design review board shall
review all projects for which applications for preliminary design review have
been accepted.  The board shall provide comments to the applicant concerning
the overall design of the project, materials and colors to be used, and
landscaping for conformance with the applicable specific plan.



 



   (1)   Transmittal of Applications for Preliminary Review.  Upon
acceptance of a completed optional preliminary application, the application
shall, within five calendar days, be referred to the design review board for
placement on its agenda for its recommendation.



 



   (2)   Review and Recommendation of Design Review Board.  The design
review board shall preliminarily review the project within 21 calendar days
after the request for the optional preliminary review has been referred to
the board along with all of the required materials.



 



   The design review board shall review the project with reference to all
specific plan design criteria and guidelines as requested by the applicant. 
Results of the optional preliminary review shall be transmitted by the board
to the Director within ten days after the design review board meeting for the
Director’s information only.



 



   (b)   Design Review of Final Applications. The design review board
shall review all projects for which applications for final design review have
been accepted.



 



   (1)   Transmittal of Applications for Final Review.  Upon
acceptance of a completed application for final design review, the
application shall, within five calendar days, be referred to the design
review board for its recommendation.



 



   (2)   Final Review and Recommendation of the Design Review Board. 
In making its recommendation to approve, conditionally approve or disapprove
an application, the design review board shall hold a public hearing and shall
notify the owners and occupants of all properties abutting, across the street
or alley from, or having a common corner with the subject property, at least
ten days prior to the date of the hearing.  Notice of the hearing shall be
posted by the applicant in a conspicuous place on the subject property at
least five days prior to the date of the public hearing.  The design review
board shall review and make its recommendation on the project within 21
calendar days after the application which has been deemed complete has been
referred to the board.



 



   The design review board shall submit its recommendation to the Director
within five calendar days after it has acted on the application or within any
additional time as is mutually agreed upon in writing between the applicant
and the Department of City Planning.



 



   The design review board’s recommendation shall include approval,
disapproval, or approval with conditions to the project.  The design review
board shall make its recommendation based upon design criteria in the
specific plan.  In the event of a recommendation for denial, the board shall
specify those areas in which the project fails to comply with the design
criteria in the specific plan.  Recommendations and summaries of discussions
shall be transmitted to the Director.



 



   The design review board’s recommendation shall not affect any
entitlement or discretionary approvals by applicable agencies and
departments.  Nothing in this subparagraph shall interfere with the
Mulholland Scenic Parkway Design Review Board’s authority to advise under
Section 11 of the Mulholland Scenic Parkway Specific Plan.



 



   If the design review board does not act and an extension of time is
agreed upon as specified above in order for the applicant to provide a
revised application with modifications for the project, then the revised
project shall be submitted to the design review board for a second meeting to
be held within 30 calendar days of the first meeting.



 



   (c)   Failure to Act.  In the event the design review board fails
to act on an application within the time limits specified in this section,
the application shall be immediately referred without recommendation to the
Director for determination.



 



   (d)   Action of the Director.  Within ten calendar days following
the receipt of the design review board’s recommendation or of the design
review board’s failure to act, the Director shall approve a project as
presented to the board if it is in compliance with the specific regulations
of the applicable specific plan.  If the project is not in compliance with
specific regulations in the specific plan and cannot be made to be so by
imposition of conditions, the Director shall disapprove the project.  The
Director shall make findings consistent with the specific plan criteria for
any approval or disapproval.



 



   For sign approvals, the Director shall have authority to grant minor
adjustments to permitted signs in accordance with the sign adjustment
criteria and findings set forth in Section 11.5.7E.  Any requests for minor
adjustments to permitted signs shall be filed in accordance with the
application procedures set forth in this subsection.



 



   In addition, if the Director requests changes or additional
information, copies of all materials submitted in connection with the request
shall be transmitted to the design review board for its information.



 



   A copy of all decisions shall be forwarded to the applicant, the design
review board, the councilmember(s) in whose district(s) the specific plan
area is located, the Department of Building and Safety, and any interested
parties who make a written request for notice.



 



   4.   Duration of Design Review Board Preliminary Review.  A design
review board's advice on an optional preliminary application shall be valid
for 24 months. (Amended by Ord. No. 182,106, Eff. 5/20/12.)



 



   A final decision of the Director or Area Planning Commission on appeal
shall be valid for a period of two years, so long as all necessary building
permits are obtained within that two years.  In the event a building permit
is obtained in a timely manner but subsequently expires, the Director’s
decision or Area Planning Commission’s decision on appeal shall expire with
the building permit.



 



   5.   Modification of Approved Plans or Materials Before Issuance of
Building Permit or Certificate of Occupancy.  The Director or Area Planning
Commission on appeal may, prior to the issuance of a building permit or
certificate of occupancy, approve exterior changes to a proposed project from
that which was approved in the design review board only if these changes were
required by a public agency.  Unless otherwise specifically required in a
specific plan, at the discretion of the Director or Area Planning Commission
on appeal, these modifications may be transmitted to the design review board
for its review at the next available meeting provided that the appropriate
materials were received 14 days prior to that meeting.



 



   An applicant requesting approval of a proposed modification to a
project shall do so in writing.  The request shall include an illustrated
description of the proposed modification and a narrative justification. 
Written proof that a modification is required by a public agency shall be
submitted with the request.  Copies of all materials submitted in connection
with the request shall be transmitted to the design review board for its
information at the time the request is submitted to the Planning
Department.  There shall be no fee for a review of a modification required
by a public agency.  An applicant may also request a minor modification
which is not required by a public agency.  In that case, a fee shall be paid
pursuant to Subdivision 2.(e) of this subsection.  (Amended by Ord. No.
177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.)



 



   In reviewing any modification, the Director or Area Planning Commission
on appeal shall limit its review and reconsideration to those areas
identified as changed or influenced by the changes.



 



   F.   Appeal Procedure.  An applicant or any other person aggrieved
by a decision of the Director, may appeal to the Area Planning Commission. 
An appeal may also be filed by the Mayor or a member of the City Council. 
Unless a board member is an applicant, he or she may not appeal any design
review determination of the Director.



 



   The appeal shall set forth specifically how the decision of the
Director fails to conform to the requirements of the specific plan.



 



   An appeal must be made within fifteen calendar days after the postmark
of the Director’s decision, pursuant to the procedures prescribed for
Conditional Uses in Section 12.24I.  After notification to the applicant,
the appellant, the board and any interested party, the Area Planning
Commission shall act on the appeal within 30 days after the end of the appeal
period.



 



   G.   Conflict of Interest.  No design review board member shall
discuss with anyone the merits of any matter either pending or likely to be
pending before the board other than during a duly called meeting of the board
or subcommittee of the board.  No member shall accept professional
employment on a case that has been acted upon by the board in the previous 12
months or is reasonably expected to be acted upon by the board in the next 12
months.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 7
DIVISION OF LAND REGULATIONS



 




(Added by Ord. No. 122,064, Eff. 6/14/62.)




 



 



Section



17.00   Title.



17.01   Tract Maps – General Provisions.



17.02   Definitions.



17.03   Advisory Agency.



17.04   Subdivision Committee.



17.05   Design Standards.



17.06   Tentative Map and Appeals.



17.07   Final Map.



17.07.1   Notification Regarding Street Lighting Maintenance Assessments.



17.07.2   Notification Regarding Sewer Pumping and/or Drainage Facilities
and Maintenance Districts.



17.08   Improvements.



17.09   Private Streets.



17.10   Reversion to Acreage.



17.10.1   Merger and Resubdivision.



17.10.5   Maps – Local Drainage Districts – Exemption from Fees.



17.11   Modifications.



17.12   Park and Recreation Site Acquisition and Development Provisions.



17.13   Subdivision Requiring Import or Export of Earth.



17.14   Modification of Recorded Final Maps.



17.15   Vesting Tentative Maps.



17.50   Parcel Maps – General Provisions.



17.51   Filing of Preliminary Parcel Maps.



17.52   Parcel Map – Authority of Advisory Agency.



17.53   Approval of Preliminary Parcel Map.



17.54   Appeals.



17.55   Map Identification and Reproduction.



17.56   Parcel Map.



17.57   Approval of Map Shall Not Authorize Violation of Other Laws.



17.58   Park and Recreation Site Acquisition and Development.



17.59   Modification of Recorded Parcel Maps.



17.60   Sales Contrary to Parcel Map Regulations Are Voidable.



 



 



SEC. 17.00.  TITLE.



 



   This article shall be known as the Division of Land Regulations of the
City of Los Angeles, and contains the City’s regulations regarding
Subdivision Maps. (Amended by Ord. No. 146,985, Eff. 4/11/75.)



 



 



SEC. 17.01.  TRACT MAPS – GENERAL PROVISIONS.



 



   A.   Scope.



 



   1.   No person shall subdivide land in the City of Los Angeles into
five or more parcels unless a Final Map has been recorded as hereinafter
provided. (Amended by Ord. No. 146,985, Eff. 4/11/75.



 



   2.   No building or structure shall be constructed or enlarged on
any land which has been subdivided in violation of the provisions of this
article, nor shall any permit be issued therefor.



 



   3.   The provisions of this article shall not be construed as
preventing the recording of a final tract map containing less than five lots
or creating fewer than five condominium units in accordance with the
procedures outlined herein and in the Subdivision Map Act.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 146,985, Eff. 4/11/75.)



 




   4.   (a)   General Rule.  The provisions of this article shall
be applicable to a commercial/industrial, commercial/industrial to
residential, residential, or residential to commercial/industrial conversion
project as defined in Section 12.03 of the Municipal Code, except as
follows.  (Amended by Ord. No. 154,960, Eff. 4/3/81.)




 



   (b)   Stock Cooperative Conversions.  The provisions of this
article shall not apply to any conversion for stock cooperative purposes
which satisfies either of the following criteria: (1) the application for
stock cooperative (DRE Form 658 or its equivalent) was filed with the
California Department of Real Estate prior to July 1, 1979, or (2) a
subdivision public report for stock cooperative was issued pursuant to
Business and Professions Code Section 11018 prior to November 10, 1979. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 154,960, Eff. 4/3/81.)



 



   (c)   New Stock Cooperatives.  The provisions of this article shall
not apply to any stock cooperative project, other than a
commercial/industrial, commercial/industrial to residential, residential, or
residential to commercial/industrial conversion project, where the
application for stock cooperative (DRE Form 658 or its equivalent was filed
with the California Department of Real Estate prior to March 21, 1980.
(Amended by Ord. No. 154.960. Eff. 4/3/81.)



 



   (d)   Subdivision of Air Space. The provisions of this article shall
apply to a division of the space above or below a lot with a definite width,
length, and upper and lower elevation occupied or to be occupied by a use,
group of buildings or portions thereof, and accessory buildings or portions
thereof, or accessory uses, (Air Space Lot, as defined in Section 12.03 of
this Code). (Added by Ord. No. 156,681, Eff. 6/21/82.)



 



   B.   Purpose. The purpose of this article is to regulate and control
the division of land, within the City of Los Angeles, to provide for the
dedication of land, the payment of fees in lieu thereof, or a combination of
both, for the acquisition and development of park and recreation sites and
facilities to serve the future inhabitants of the subdivision, to supplement
the provisions of the Subdivision Map Act concerning the design, improvement
and survey data of subdivisions, the form and content of Tentative Maps and
Final Maps, and the procedure to be followed in securing the official
approval of the City of Los Angeles on such maps, consistent with the
applicable general and specific plans as well as the public health, safety
and welfare. (Amended by Ord. No. 146,985, Eff. 4/11/75.)



 



   It is also the intention of this article that the subdividing of land
in the City of Los Angeles be done in accordance with the grading regulations
of the City contained and set forth in Article 1 of Chapter 9 of this Code
and to establish when possible beauty and attractiveness in the hills
consistent with watershed drainage, erosion and fire control requirements,
and good engineering practices.



 



   C.   Interpretation.  This article shall not be interpreted or
construed to invalidate any previous act on the part of the City approving or
authorizing private streets, or authorizing the issuance of building permits
for structures on lots served by private streets.



 



 



SEC. 17.02.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   For the purpose of this article the following words and phrases are
defined as follows:



 



   Alley – A public way, other than a street or highway, providing a
means of vehicular access to abutting property;



 



   Appeal Board – The Area Planning Commission where the map is located
for any parcel map or tentative map that:  (a) creates or results in less
than 50,000 gross square feet of nonresidential floor area; or (b) creates or
results in fewer than 50 dwelling units, guest rooms, or combination of
dwelling units and guest rooms; or (c) involves a lot with fewer than 65,000
square feet of lot area.  Otherwise, the City Planning Commission. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 182,106, Eff. 5/20/12.)



 



   Average Natural Slope. (Amended by Ord. No. 179,035, Eff. 9/17/07.) 
The average of the ungraded slopes at selected contours within a given parcel
of land divided by its area as computed from either the City's Engineer's
topographic maps or a topographic map prepared by a California registered
civil engineer or California licensed land surveyor.  Regardless of which
map is used, calculations cannot be derived or interpolated from a map that
originally had contour intervals of greater than 25 feet for subdivisions or
greater than five feet for parcel maps.  Average natural slope shall be
computed by the following formula:



 









 



   Where:    S  =   average natural slope in percent.



 



       C  =   contour interval in feet, at no greater than 25-foot
intervals for subdivisions or five-foot intervals for parcel maps, resulting
in at least five contour lines.



 



       L  =   total accumulated length of all contours of interval
"C" in feet.



 



       A  =   the area being considered in square feet.



 



   Slopes may be computed only by the entire subdivision or parcel map
area.  The calculation "L" (contour lengths) and "A" (area in square feet)
can be computed by 500-foot grid increments, as shown on the City Engineer's
topographic maps.  The "L" for each grid increment must be added to the "L"
for every other grid increment and the "A" for each grid increment must be
added to the "A" for every other grid increment to determine the "L" and the
"A" for the entire subdivision or parcel map, prior to calculating the
average natural slope for that subdivision or parcel map.  In any matter
where the average natural slope is used to calculate density pursuant to
Sections 17.05 or 17.50 of this Code, the subdivision file shall contain
copies of all maps and all calculations so that the figures can be
verified.  All maps and all calculations are required to be submitted at the
time of the filing of a subdivision application or the application is deemed
incomplete.



 



   Board -(Deleted by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)



 



   Building Site - Any parcel of land which conforms to the definition of
a lot as defined in this article.



 



   City Engineer - The City Engineer.



 



   Commission - (Deleted by Ord. No. 173,106, Eff. 3/5/00.)



 



   Design - Design of a subdivision shall include:



 



   (l)   street alignments, grades and widths;



 



   (2)   drainage and sanitary facilities and utilities, including
alignments and grades thereof;



 



   (3)   location and size of all required easements and
rights–of–way;



 



   (4)   fire roads and firebreaks:



 



   (5)   lot and size configuration;



 



   (6)   traffic access;



 



   (7)   grading;



 



   (8)   land to be dedicated for park and recreation purposes, and



 



   (9)   such other specific requirements in the general plan and
configuration of the entire subdivision as may be necessary or convenient to
insure conformity to or implementation of the general plan or any adopted
specific plan.  (Amended by Ord. No. 146,985, Eff. 4/11/75.)



 



   Director of Planning – (Deleted by Ord. No. 173,106, Eff. 3/5/00.)



 



   Drip Line – A line which may be drawn on the ground around a tree
directly under its outermost branch tips and which identifies that location
where rainwater tends to drip from the tree. (Added by Ord. No. 163,478, Eff.
4/12/80.)



 



   Engineer – The Registered Civil Engineer employed by the owner or by
the subdivider to prepare the Subdivision Maps and improvement plans.
(Amended by Ord. No. 146,985, Eff. 4/11/75.)



 



   Final Maps – A map prepared in accordance with the provisions of this
article and with any applicable provisions of the Subdivision Map Act,
designed to be recorded in the Office of the County Recorder of Los Angeles.



 



   Fire Protection – Such fire hydrants and other protective devices as
required by the Chief Engineer of the Fire Department.



 



   Flood Hazard – A hazard to land or improvements due to overflow water
having sufficient velocity to transport or deposit debris, scour the surface
soil, dislodge or damage buildings, or erode the banks of water courses.



 



   Freeway – A highway in respect to which the owners of abutting land
have no right or easement of access to or from their abutting lands or in
respect to which such owners have only limited or restricted right or
easement of access, and which is declared to be such in compliance with the
Streets and Highways Code of the State of California.



 



   Frontage Road – A street lying adjacent and approximately parallel to
and separated from a freeway, and which affords access to abutting property.



 



   Future Street or Alley – Any real property which the owner thereof
has offered for dedication to the City for street or alley purposes but which
has been rejected by the City Council of the City of Los Angeles, subject to
the right of said Council to rescind its action and accept by resolution at
any later date and without further action by the owner, all or part of said
property as public street or alley.



 



   General Plan – A General Plan is a comprehensive declaration of
purposes, policies and programs for the development of the city, which
includes, where applicable, diagrams, maps and text setting forth objectives,
principles, standards and other features and which has been adopted by the
City Council. (Added by Ord. No. 138,800, Operative 6/23/69.)



 



   Highway, Major – Any street designated as a major highway on the
Highways and Freeways maps of the Transportation Element of the General
Plan.  (Amended by Ord. No. 172,840, Eff. 11/4/99.)



 



   Highway, Secondary – Any street designated as a secondary highway on
the Highways and Freeways maps of the Transportation Element of the General
Plan.  (Amended by Ord. No. 172,840, Eff. 11/4/99.)



 



   Hillside Areas - Hillside areas as defined in Section 91.7003 of this
Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)



 



   Improvement – Such street work and utilities to be installed, or
agreed to be installed by the subdivider on the land to be used for public or
private streets, highways, ways, and easements as are necessary for the
general use of the lot owners in the subdivision and local neighborhood
traffic and drainage needs and required as a condition precedent to the
approval and acceptance of the Final Map or Parcel Map. Such street work and
utilities include necessary monuments, street name signs, guardrails,
barricades, safety devices, fire hydrants, grading, retaining walls, storm
drains and flood control channels and facilities, erosion control structures,
sanitary sewers. street lights, street trees, traffic warning devices other
than traffic signals and relocation of existing traffic signal systems
directly affected by other subdivision improvements and other facilities as
are required by the Bureau of Street Lighting or Bureau of Street Maintenance
in conformance with other applicable provisions of this Code, or as are
determined necessary by the Advisory Agency for the necessary and proper
development of the proposed subdivision and to insure conformity to or the
implementation of the general plan or any adopted specific plan. (Amended by
Ord. No. 146,985, Eff. 4/11/75.)



 



   Inundation – Ponded water or water in motion of sufficient depth to
damage property due to the presence of the water or to deposit of silt.



 



   Lot – A parcel of land conforming to the definition of Lot contained
in Section 12.03 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code, which is identified on a
final Map or a Parcel Map recorded in the Office of the County Recorder with
a separate and distinct letter or number. (Amended by Ord. No. 146,985, Eff.
4/11/75.)



 



   Model Dwelling (Added by Ord. No. 145,410, Eff. 2/1/74.) – A
one–family residential unit having all the following characteristics:



 



   (a)   Said unit is constructed upon a proposed lot or in a proposed
building previously designated as a model dwelling site by the Advisory
Agency in a subdivision or a multiple unit development for which the Advisory
Agency has approved or conditionally approved a tentative map, but for which
a final map has not yet been recorded.



 



   (b)   The proposed lot upon which the unit is constructed is
recognized as a legal building site for the duration of the model dwelling
permit.



 



   (c)   No Certificate of Occupancy for such unit has been issued by
the Superintendent of Building.



 



   (d)   Where applicable, temporary access thereto is permitted over
future streets previously restricted to public access.



 



   (e)   Said unit is intended to be temporarily utilized as an example
of the dwellings which have been built or which are proposed to be built in
the same subdivision or multiple dwelling development.



 



   Parcel Map – A map showing a division of land other than those
divisions which require a Final Map as defined by the Subdivision Map Act.
(Amended by Ord. No. 146,985, Eff. 4/11/75.)



 



   Private Road Easement – A parcel of land not dedicated as a public
street, over which a private easement for road purposes is proposed to be or
has been granted to the owners of property contiguous or adjacent thereto
which intersects or connects with a public street, or a private street; in
each instance the instrument creating such easement shall be or shall have
been duly recorded or filed in the Office of the County Recorder of Los
Angeles.



 



   Private Street – A private road easement as defined herein which has
been determined by the Advisory Agency or the Director of Planning to be
adequate for access and for the purposes set forth in this article or in
Article 8 of this chapter.



 



   Problem Areas – Those portions of the City of Los Angeles determined
by resolution of the Board of Public Works to be actually or potentially
dangerous by reason of geological conditions, being subject to inundation or
overflow by storm water, or because of any other potentially dangerous
condition, including but not limited to areas subject to rapid spread of fire.



 



   Protected Tree (Added by Ord. No. 177,404, Eff. 4/23/06.) – Any of
the following Southern California native tree species, which measures four
inches or more in cumulative diameter, four and one half feet above the
ground level at the base of the tree:



 



   (a)   Oak tree including Valley Oak (Quercus lobata) and California
Live Oak (Quercus agrifolia), or any other tree of the oak genus indigenous
to California but excluding the Scrub Oak (Quercus dumosa).



 



   (b)   Southern California Black Walnut (Juglans californica var.
californica).



 



   (c)   Western Sycamore (Platanus racemosa).



 



   (d)   California Bay (Umbellularia californica).



 



   This definition shall not include any tree grown or held for sale by a
licensed nursery, or trees planted or grown as a part of a tree planting
program.



 



   Public Way – Any street, channel, viaduct, subway, tunnel, bridge,
easement, right of way or other way in which a public agency has a right of
use.



 



   Residential Planned Development – A group of residential buildings
and appurtenant structures located and arranged in accordance wish the
requirements of the RPD residential planned development district Sec. 13.04
in which the property is located. A residential planned development may
include schools. It may also include churches, hospitals, infirmaries,
recreational and commercial uses, as an integral part of the development and
intended for use by its occupants, to an extent commensurate with the planned
population of the RPD district. (Added by Ord. No. 141,474, Eff. 2/27/71.)



 



   Revised Tentative Map – A map involving a revised arrangement of the
streets, alleys, easements or lots within property for which a tentative map
has been previously approved or a modification of the boundary of the
property. (Amended by Ord, No. 146,985, Eff. 4/11/75.)



 



   Roadway – That portion of a right of way for a street or alley used
or intended to accommodate the movement of vehicles.



 



   Service Road – That part of a major or secondary highway, containing
a roadway which affords access to abutting property and is adjacent and
approximately parallel to and separated from the principal roadway.



 



   Slope. (Added by Ord. No. 162,144, Eff. 5/11/87.) The plane or incline
of land usually expressed as a percentage where % slope =



 




vertical distance
            -------------------------  x 100
horizontal distance




 



   Street, Collector – A street (including the principal access streets
of a subdivision which carries traffic from local streets either directly or
via other existing or proposed collector streets to a major or secondary
highway.



 



   Street, Local – Any street other than a collector street, major or
secondary highway, or freeway, providing access to abutting property and
serving local as distinguished from through traffic.



 



   Subdivider – A person, firm, corporation, Partnership or association
who proposes to divide, divides or causes to be divided real property into a
subdivision for himself or for others. (Amended by Ord. No. 146,985, Eff.
4/11/75.)



 



   Subdivision – The same as defined in Section 66424 of the Government
Code. Subdivision includes a stock cooperative project as defined in Section
12.03 of the Municipal Code. (Amended by Ord. No. 153,282, Eff. 1/3/80.)



 



   Subdivision Map Act – The Subdivision Map Act of the State of
California, Chapters 1 through 7 of Division 2, Title 7 of the Government
Code, commencing with Section 66410. (Amended by Ord. No. 146,985, Eff.
4/11/75.)



 



   Surveyor – A licensed land surveyor authorized to practice in
California.



 



   Tentative Map – Refers to a map made for the purpose of showing the
design of a proposed subdivision creating five or more parcels, five or more
condominiums, or five or more units in a community apartment project or stock
cooperative, and showing the existing conditions in and around it and need
not be based upon an accurate or detailed final survey of the property.
(Amended by Ord. No. 153,024, Eff. 11/10/79.)



 



   Tract Map – Tract map refers to either a tentative map or final map.
(Added by Ord. No. 146,985, Eff. 4/11/75.)



 



   Tree Expert – A person with at least four years of experience in the
business of transplanting, moving, caring for and maintaining trees and who
is (a) a certified arborist with the International Society of Arboriculture
and who holds a valid California license as an agricultural pest control
advisor or (b) a landscape architect or (c) a registered consulting arborist
with the American Society of Consulting Arborists.  (Amended by Ord. No.
177,404, Eff. 4/23/06.)



 



   Vesting Tentative Map –  a tentative map for any land division that
has printed conspicuously on its face the words “Vesting Tentative Map”
and is characterized by certain rights to proceed with development when filed
and processed in accordance with Section 17.15 of this Code. (Amended by Ord.
No. 163,944, Eff. 10/8/88.)



 



   Water Supply – Such water system supply and distribution facilities
as are necessary to provide a reliable and adequate water supply for private
use and public fire protection purposes.



 



   Vehicular Access Rights – The right or easement for access of owners
or occupants of abutting lands to a public way other than as pedestrians.



 



 



SEC. 17.03.  ADVISORY AGENCY.



 



   The Director of Planning is hereby designated as the Advisory Agency
for the City of Los Angeles. The Director is authorized to act in such
capacity through one or more deputies who are appointed by him for that
purpose. The Director, with the concurrence of the Chief Zoning
Administrator, may designate an Associate Zoning Administrator to perform
these additional functions. (Amended by Ord. No. 150,947, Eff. 7/3/78.)



 



   A.   Authority and Duties.  The Advisory Agency is charged with the
duty of making investigations and reports on the design and improvement of
proposed subdivisions, of requiring the dedication of land, the payment of
fees in lieu thereof, or a combination of both, for the acquisition and
development of park and recreation sites and facilities, and is hereby
authorized to approve, conditionally approve, or disapprove Tentative Maps of
proposed subdivisions, private streets and such maps as are provided for
herein, to prescribe the design, kinds, nature and extent of improvements
required to be installed in connection therewith and to report directly to
the subdivider the action taken on the Tentative Map.  (Amended by Ord. No.
184,505, Eff. 1/11/17.)



 



   In taking any such action, the Advisory Agency is authorized to include
or omit in whole or in part the reports or recommendations of the other
concerned officials or City departments, except that the Advisory Agency may
not omit any mandatory requirements relating to public health or safety
recommended by such other officials or departments in the exercise of their
duties prescribed by law. Before approving the omission of any report or
recommendation made by such officials or departments the Advisory Agency
shall submit the matter to the members of the Subdivision Committee for
consideration at a regular meeting.



 



   When the Advisory Agency approves or conditionally approves a tentative
map, it may also designate certain lots or proposed buildings, whether
existing or to be constructed on a lot shown on said map, as sites for the
construction of model dwellings. The Advisory Agency is authorized to
designate said sites only if it determines that they comply, or can be made
to comply with the design standards for sites for model dwellings as
hereinafter set forth in Section 17.05 of this article.



 



   The Advisory Agency, acting in the capacity of an Associate Zoning
Administrator, shall have the authority to reduce the width of required
passageways pursuant to Section 12.21 C.2.(b) to no less than five feet
between habitable buildings and detached condominiums, unless the Fire
Department determines that the reduction would result in a safety hazard. 
And shall have the authority to grant deviations of no more than 20 percent
from the applicable area, yard, and height requirements.  The subdivider
must ask for adjustments at the time of filing.  In permitting adjustments,
the Advisory Agency shall make the findings contained in Section 12.28 C.4. 
(Added by Ord. No. 176,321, Eff. 1/15/05.)



 



   The reductions/deviations shall be included in the written decision of
the Advisory Agency.  Notification and appeal rights to such
reductions/deviations shall conform to Section 17.06 A.  (Added by Ord. No.
176,321, Eff. 1/15/05.)



 



   If the final decision-maker imposes a condition as part of an action on
a related application that differs from a condition of approval on a
tentative tract map, then the Advisory Agency shall have the authority to
make the tract map conditions consistent with the final decision-maker's
action.  (Amended by Ord. No. 177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.)



 



   B.   Procedure.  The Advisory Council shall not act upon any
Tentative Map until 39 days time has elapsed from the filing of the map,
unless reports have been received from each member of the Subdivision
Committee. Where said reports have been mailed to the subdivider within the
39-day period, the Advisory Agency shall not act until five days’ time has
elapsed from the date of mailing of a copy of all. such reports to the
subdivider. Every Tentative Map shall be considered by the Advisory Agency at
a public meeting. (Amended by Ord. No. 137,891, Eff. 1/8/69.)



 



   C.   Modifications. The Advisory Agency is authorized to approve or
disapprove requests by a subdivider for minor modifications in the Conditions
of Approval for a Tentative Map, but such action shall not extend the time
for filing of a Final Map with the City Engineer. Such decisions shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Section 17.11 and shall be subject
to the same appeal as is provided for appeals from the decision of the
Advisory Agency on Tentative Maps.



 



   D.   Subdivision of Air Space.  (Amended by Ord. No. 168,132, Eff.
9/3/92.)  Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter to the contrary, in
any zone, the Advisory Agency is authorized to approve, conditionally approve
or disapprove a preliminary parcel map or a tentative tract map showing one
or more air space lots (as defined in Section 12.03 of this Code), provided
that such air space lots are created in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 1, Article 7 of this Code.



 



   The Advisory Agency shall require, as a condition of approval of any
tentative tract map or preliminary parcel map showing one or more air space
lots, that the final map or parcel map showing such air space lots be based
upon a site plan which accurately describes the location of such lots. After
recordation of such map and upon construction of the buildings or structures
within the air space lots, if it is determined by the Department of Building
and Safety that there are minor discrepancies between the site plan and the
actual physical location of the air space lots in such buildings or
structures, lot lines for the air space lots may be adjusted as necessary
through the parcel map exemption procedure set forth in Los Angeles Municipal
Code Section 17.50B3c.



 



 



SEC. 17.04.  SUBDIVISION COMMITTEE.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 152,425, Eff. 6/29/79.)



 



   There is hereby created a Subdivision Committee.  This committee shall
be composed of the following officers of the City or their duly authorized
representatives:



 



   The City Engineer;



 



   The Superintendent of Building;



 



   The Chief Engineer of the Department of Fire;



 



   The Chief Engineer and General Manager of the Department of Water and
Power;



 



   The General Manager, Department of General Services;  (Oper. 7/1/79.)



 



   The General Manager of the Department of Recreation and Parks;



 



   The General Manager of the Department of Transportation;



 



   The Director of the Bureau of Street Lighting of the Department of
Public Works.



 



   It shall be the duty of the Committee to meet with the Advisory Agency
and to make recommendations upon all Tentative Maps, Private Street Maps, and
such other matters as are presented to it by the Advisory Agency. The
Committee shall hold regular meetings for this purpose. All such meetings
shall be open to the public and any persons having an interest in pending
maps may be heard.



 



   The General Manager of the Department of Recreation and Parks shall
submit a report to the Advisory Agency respecting each application for
subdivision approval. Said report shall contain recommendations, approved by
the Board of Recreation and Park Commissioners, specifying the land to be
dedicated, the payment of fees in lieu thereof, or a combination of both for
the acquisition and development of park or recreational sites and facilities
to serve the future inhabitants of such subdivision, all in accordance with
the limitations specified in Section 17.12 of this article. To the extent
possible, the report shall also specify when the development of the park or
recreational facilities will be commenced.



 



   For purposes of reviewing and submitting recommendations to the
Advisory Agency on mobilehome park closure impact reports pursuant to Section
47.09 of this Code only, the Subdivision Committee shall also include a
representative of the Rent Stabilization Division of the Housing and
Community Investment Department, in addition to the above listed
representatives.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,718, Eff. 10/30/13.)



 



 



SEC. 17.05.  DESIGN STANDARDS.



 



   A.   Street Standards Committee.  There is hereby created a Street
Standards Committee (Committee) to be composed of the Director of Planning,
as Chair, the City Engineer and the General Manager of the Department of
Transportation, or their designees.  (Amended by Ord. No. 184,718, Eff.
3/4/17.)



 



   This Committee shall:



 



   1.   Recommend to the Commission minimum width and improvement
standards for all classes of public and private streets and alleys.  The
Commission shall adopt such minimum width and improvement standards as it
determines are necessary for the safe and adequate movement of pedestrians,
bicyclists, transit service and vehicular traffic, the increased retention
and detention of stormwater, the installation of necessary utilities and for
reasonable and proper access to abutting properties.  Such standards shall
not be applicable to any street or alley for which the City Council, by
ordinance, adopts specific standards.



 



   2.   Modify the Complete Street Design Guide (CSDG) on an as-needed
basis to align the CSDG with current and innovative street design practice.



 



   B.   Adoption of Standards.  A public hearing shall be conducted by
the Commission prior to the approval of any change in the standards. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 184,718, Eff. 3/4/17.)



 



   C.   Conformance To General Plan.  Each Tentative Map shall be
designed in compliance with the zoning applying to the property or approved
by the City Council for change or shall be subject to a condition requiring
compliance with such zoning prior to the recordation of the final map. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 156,960, Eff. 8/27/82.)



 



   In addition, where a Tentative Map involves land for which a General
Plan including dwelling unit densities has been adopted by the Council, and
said land is also in an “H” Hillside or Mountainous Area established by
Article 2 of this chapter, the number of lots on said map shall be limited so
that the number of dwelling units permitted by the applicable zoning
regulations shall not substantially exceed the dwelling unit densities shown
on said plan. (Amended by Ord. No. 149,402, Eff. 4/18/77.)



 



   Each Tentative Map shall substantially conform to all other elements of
the General Plan.  In computing the number of dwelling units, only the area
being designated for residential use and land that is being dedicated for
public uses shall be considered, excepting, however, land set aside for
street purposes, or land required to be dedicated for park and recreation
purposes pursuant to Ordinance 141,422.  However, in the Greater Downtown
Housing Incentive Area, the area used for computing the allowable floor area
of a residential (including Apartment Hotel or mixed-use) building shall be
the lot area including any land to be set aside for street purposes. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 179,076, Eff. 9/23/07.)



 



   In Hillside Areas, as defined in Chapter 1 of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code, which are designated in the Minimum Density housing category by the
applicable element of the General Plan adopted by the City Council, the
dwelling unit density shall not exceed that allowed by the following
formula:  (Paragraph and following formula Amended by Ord. No. 179,035, Eff.
9/17/07.)



 









 




   Where :   D =   the maximum number of dwelling units per gross
acre allowable, and










         S =   the average natural slope of the land in percent.




 



   Where the total allowable number of dwelling units per parcel map or
tentative tract map calculated under the above formulas results in a number
other than a whole number, it shall be rounded to the nearest whole number as
follows:  where the fractional portion of the total allowable number of
dwelling units equals .5 or more, the total number of allowable dwelling
units shall be rounded to the next larger whole number; where the fractional
portion of the total allowable number of dwelling units equals less than .5,
the total number of allowable dwelling units shall be rounded to the next
smaller whole number.  (Added by Ord. No. 162,144, Eff. 5/11/87.)



 



   In no case shall the permitted density be less than 0.05 dwelling units
per gross acre.  Where the total allowable number of dwelling units per
tentative tract map calculated under the above formula results in a number
less than one, it shall be rounded up to allow one dwelling unit per
tentative tract map.  Where previous grading on a site makes it difficult to
determine average natural slope using the above formula, the Director of
Planning shall determine the average natural slope in a manner to carry out
the purpose and intent of this subsection.  (Amended by Ord. No. 179,035,
Eff. 9/17/07.)



 



   D.   Streets.



 



   1.   Right-of-Way and Roadway Widths.  All streets and alleys shall
be designed to conform with the Commission's adopted standards.  The
requirements and exceptions set forth in Section 12.37, however, shall
apply.  (Amended by Ord. No. 184,718, Eff. 3/4/17.)



 



   2.   Street Grades. Grades of all streets shall be as flat as
consistent with adequate surface drainage requirements and the approved
development of the proposed subdivision. The minimum grade permitted shall be
four–tenths of one per cent, except in extremely flat areas where a grade
of two–tenths of one per cent may be used. The maximum grade permitted for
major and secondary highways shall be six per cent, except where a grade not
to exceed ten percent will eliminate excessive curvature, fill or excavation.
The maximum grade permitted for collector streets shall be ten per cent and
for local streets shall be 15 per cent. Variations from these requirements
may be granted by the Advisory Agency upon recommendation by the City
Engineer in individual cases in accordance with the provisions of Section
17.11.



 



   Changes in grade greater than four–tenths of one per cent shall be
connected by vertical curves. The length of vertical curves shall conform to
standards for sight distance and riding qualities established by the City
Engineer.



 



   3.   Future Streets.  In the event certain streets or alleys in a
subdivision are to be reserved for future public use and they have been
approved as to location and width, they shall be indicated on the Final Map
and offered for dedication as future streets or future alleys. Certificates
providing that the City may accept the offer to dedicate such easement at any
time shall be shown on the Final Map.



 



   4.   Corner Cut-Off. At all block corners the property line shall be
rounded. On all major and secondary highways, the corner shall have a
20–foot radius curve and on all other streets, a 15–foot radius curve;
provided, however, that where commercial development is permitted, a diagonal
cutoff of 15–feet × 15–feet in lieu of a 20–foot radius curve and a
ten–foot × ten–foot cutoff in lieu of a 15–foot radius curve may be
used. In industrial zones the curves shall have a minimum radius of at least
40 feet.



 



   5.   Curves – Horizontal. The center line radii of curves shall be
as large as possible, consistent with conditions. All curves shall have
sufficient length to avoid the appearance of an angle point. Reversing curves
shall be connected by tangents of length approved by the City Engineer as
sufficient to safely reverse the unbalanced centrifugal force. In any case,
horizontal curves shall have the following minimum center line radii:



 




Major and Secondary Highways   1,000 feet





Collector Streets   500 feet





Local Streets, Not Hillside   300 feet





Local Streets, Hillside Area   125 feet




 



   6.   Intersections.  Street intersections shall be at as near to a
right angle as possible.  No jogs shall be allowed in the continuity of an
arterial street.  Jogs in a non-arterial street where crossing an arterial
street shall be held to a minimum.  Multiple intersections of more than four
approaches should be avoided.  In hillside areas special conditions may be
required.  (Amended by Ord. No. 184,718, Eff. 3/4/17.)



 



   7.   Cul-de-sac Streets.  Cul-de-sac streets should be avoided
except in locations where physical constraints prohibit the continuation of
the street (such as where a river or railroad infrastructure is present) or
where made necessary by historical development patterns.  Where cul-de-sac
streets are approved, they shall be terminated by a turning area conforming
to the latest standards approved by the Commission.  Where feasible,
existing cul-de-sacs should be modified and new cul-de-sacs should be
designed to include a passageway for bicycles and pedestrians to access the
surrounding area.  (Amended by Ord. No. 184,718, Eff. 3/4/17.)



 



   8.   General. (Added by Ord. No. 157,811, Eff. 8/13/83.) All streets
within and/or immediately adjacent to the subdivision shall be improved with
curbs and gutters, unless not required by the Advisory Agency upon
recommendation of the City Engineer.



 



   Streets within and/or immediately adjacent to the subdivision shall be
improved with sidewalks, except that in mountainous, hillside or rural areas,
sidewalks may be omitted or may be provided on only one side of the street
with the approval of the Advisory Agency.



 



   E.   Alleys.  (Amended by Ord. No. 184,718, Eff. 3/4/17.)



 



   1.   Alleys shall be not less than 20 feet in width.  Alleys
serving industrial zones shall be 30 feet wide, unless otherwise approved by
the Advisory Agency.  All dead-end alleys shall be constructed with adequate
turning areas.  Whenever practicable, alleys shall be required at the rear
of all lots that are in residential zones and that front an arterial
street.  Alleys may also be required at the rear of lots in commercial and
industrial zones.



 



   2.   Alley Intersections.  Where two alleys intersect, a triangular
corner cut-off of not less than 10 feet along each alley line shall be
provided.



 



   F.   Pedestrian Walks.  If the Advisory Agency determines that
inner-block pedestrian walks are necessary for the public health, safety or
welfare, they shall be dedicated to a width of not less than 12 feet.  The
Advisory Agency, however, shall only impose such a dedication requirement
after finding that the dedication bears an essential nexus and rough
proportionality to a project impact.  (Amended by Ord. No. 184,718, Eff.
3/4/17.)



 



   G.   Blocks.  Blocks in residentially and industrially zoned areas
shall not exceed 1,700 feet in length, except in hilly areas.  Commercial
blocks shall not exceed 800 feet in length except in locations where the
prevailing block length (within 1/2 mile) is less than 800 feet.  In such
instance, the new block shall not exceed the average prevailing block
length.  (Amended by Ord. No. 184,718, Eff. 3/4/17.)



 



   H.   Lot Size.  (Amended by Ord. No. 141,474, Eff. 2/27/71.) 
Every lot shall have a minimum width and area to comply with the requirements
as specified in Article 2 of this chapter for the zone in which the lot is
located, provided, however, that every lot located in a “C” Commercial
Zone and for which no minimum width is specified in said article shall have a
minimum width of 40 feet. All lots in a residential planned development shall
comply with the standard residential conditions of Sec. 13.04 of this Code,
and the conditions of approval of the development.



 



   1.   (Amended by Ord. No. 142,861, Eff. 2/4/72.) When the Advisory
Agency determines that traffic access, topography, and drainage conditions
will safely allow lot averaging, and when the subdivider has demonstrated to
the satisfaction of the Advisory Agency in a written report that such
averaging is consistent with proper subdivision design, and in addition will
produce, one or more of the following benefits: require less grading than
would a subdivision of conventional design not utilizing lot averaging;
result in improved lot design; or produce other environmental benefits; the
Advisory agency may permit the width and area of not more than 20 percent of
the lots in a subdivision located in the “H” Hillside or Mountainous Area
to be reduced as specified below, provided that the average area of all lots
in said subdivision is not less than the following requirements:



 




[LOT AREA IN SQUARE FEET]





(Amended by Ord. No. 142,861, Eff. 2/4/72.)




 



 

[Zone]
 

Minimum to Which Lot Width May Be Reduced

 

Minimum to Which Area May Be Reduced

 

Average Requirement



RA-H
 

63 feet

 

14,000

 

17,500



RE40-H
 

No Reduction

 

32,000

 

40,000



RE20-H
 

72 feet

 

16,000

 

20,000



RE15-H
 

72 feet

 

12,000

 

15,000



RE11-H
 

63 feet

 

8,800

 

11,000



RE9-H
 

60 feet

 

7,200

 

9,000




 



   In computing such average, that portion of any lot exceeding 150
percent of the average requirement shall not be included, provided however,
that in the RA Zone the maximum area of any lot that may be used in computing
the average shall be 24,500 square feet.



 



   In a tract wherein one or more lots have less than the average
requirement for the zone, no lot shall be rearranged or divided unless: (1)
the average requirement for the original Final Map is maintained, and (2)
such rearrangement or division is accomplished by recording a new Final Map
or a Parcel Map, or by securing determination that said proposed
rearrangement or division is exempt from the Parcel Map procedure as provided
for in Section 17.50B,3(c).  (Amended by Ord. No. 146,985, Eff. 4/11/75.)



 



   2.   Where it finds it necessary in order to promote the general
welfare, the Advisory Agency may require that lots which are contiguous or
nearby to existing lots on the same street may be increased in size so as to
be compatible with the size of such existing lots. However, in no case may
the Advisory Agency require such lots to contain an area of over 50 per cent
more than that required by the applicable provisions of Article 2 of this
chapter.



 



   3.   Property in commercial or industrial ones need not be divided
into more than one lot where such property is to be operated as a unit.



 



   4.   Each portion of the lot which is platted so as to be divided by
a City or County boundary line shall be given a separate letter or number on
the recorded tract map.



 



   5.   The side lines of lots shall be approximately at right angles
to the streets, or radial to the street on curved streets, except where
topography or other conditions make this impracticable.



 



   6.   Where it finds that there will be no material increase in the
dwelling unit density permitted by the zone, and that the public health,
safety or welfare and good subdivision design would be promoted by the
dedication of public streets to a width in excess of the approved standards
provided for in this section, or the dedication of service roads, or the
dedication or reservation of land for public parks, public uses or other open
areas, the Advisory Agency may permit the required area of one or more of the
lots in a subdivision in an RA, RE, or RS Zone to be reduced to the extent of
such dedication or reservation. Provided however, that in no event shall such
a reduction exceed 15%; and, no lot in a RA-H or RE-H Zone shall be permitted
to be reduced below the minimum area specified therefor in Subdivision 1. of
this subsection.  (Added by Ord. No. 129,693, Eff. 5/2/65.)



 



   7.   Where the Advisory Agency finds the project is consistent with
the dwelling unit density permitted by the General Plan, and that the public
health, safety or welfare and good subdivision design will be promoted by the
preservation of protected trees, the Advisory Agency may permit the required
area of one or more of the lots in a subdivision in an "RA," "RE," "RS" or
"R1" Zone to be reduced by an amount sufficient to provide for protected tree
preservation in accordance with Section 17.05 R. of this Code.  Provided,
however, that in no event shall the reduction exceed 50 percent of the
required lot area; no "RA" or "RE" lot shall be reduced below 50 feet in
width; no "RS" or "R1" lot shall be reduced below 40 feet in width; and no
lot in a designated "K" Horsekeeping District shall be reduced below 17,500
square feet.  (Amended by Ord. No. 177,404, Eff. 4/23/06.)



 



   8.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code, where the
Advisory Agency finds that there will be no increase in density and that the
density provisions of the General Plan will not be exceeded, it may approve
subdivisions in the R2, RD, R3, R4 and R5 zones, meeting the requirements of
Section 12.22 C.25. of this Code. The minimum lot area of lots in any such
subdivision shall be 2,500 square feet.  (Added by Ord. No. 159,532, Eff.
1/3/85.)



 



   9.   In calculating the density of a subdivision proposed to be
developed with residences permitted by Sections 12.08.3 B.1. and 12.22 C.25.
of this Code, the area contained within public streets shall be deducted from
the gross area of the subdivision; however, the area contained within private
streets, public alleys and driveways shall not be deducted from the gross
area of the subdivision.  (Added by Ord. No. 159,532, Eff. 1/3/85.)



 



   10.   In calculating the allowable floor area of a subdivision
proposed to be developed as a residential (including Apartment Hotel or mixed
use) building in the Greater Downtown Housing Incentive Area, any land
required to be dedicated for street purposes shall be included as part of the
lot area of the subdivision.  (Added by Ord. No. 179,076, Eff. 9/23/07.)



 



   I.   Easements. Easements for public utilities, water system,
sewers, street lights, storm drains or flood control channels, and slope
rights shall be provided wherever determined necessary by the Advisory Agency
upon recommendations of the City Engineer.



 



   Wherever it is determined that future easements are necessary, a
certificate shall be placed on the Final Map indicating that the City may
accept such easements at any time.



 



   J.   Hillside Areas. Design requirements for subdivisions in
hillside areas shall meet the grading standards established by the Board of
Public Work and the grading regulations established by Article I, Chapter 9
of this Code. Such requirements may also include providing soil reports
prepared by a Registered Civil Engineer specializing in Soil Mechanics and/or
reports on geological investigations.



 



   K.   Problem Areas. Areas designated by resolution of the Board of
Public Works as problem areas shall not be subdivided except when approved by
the Advisory Agency upon recommendation of the Superintendent of Building and
the City Engineer.



 



   L.   Grading Plans.  (Amended by Ord. No. 142,877, Eff. 2/24/ 72.)
The Advisory Agency may require a proposed grading plan with the Tentative
Map of any subdivision. Upon recommendation of the Superintendent of Building
or the City Engineer, or where it appears that cuts and fills will occur in
the grading of the property which may be contrary to the objectives of this
article, the Advisory Agency shall require the subdivider to submit grading
plans for all or part of the tract before action on the Tentative Map will be
taken. Any grading plan submitted shall contain thereon a statement of the
quantities (in cubic yards) of cut and fill and quantities of export or
import material involved. If the amount of earth material to be imported to
or exported from a subdivision site is 1,000 cubic yards or more, statements
of the following shall also be included: the proposed borrow or disposal
site; the proposed haul route; the total gross weight with load of the
proposed haul vehicles; as well as other pertinent data which the Advisory
Agency may require.



 



   Failure to furnish such a grading plan (where necessary to complete the
investigation of the Tentative Map within the time specified in the written
notice requesting its submission) shall be cause for the disapproval of the
Tentative Map unless an extension of the time for acting on said map is
mutually agreed upon between the subdivider and the Advisory Agency.



 



   If changes in the design of the lots or street system can be made to
correct the conditions set forth in Subsection J. of this section, either by
increased lot sizes or changes in grades, such modifications shall be made.



 



   M.   Storm Drains.  (Amended by Ord. No. 139,199, Eff. 10/10/69.) 
Storm drains shall be designed in conformance with standards approved by the
City Engineer. Storm drain facilities to intercept and convey all runoff to a
suitable point of disposal shall be required when runoff from the entire area
tributary to and including the subdivision exceeds the limiting depth of
street flow as determined by the City Engineer. These storm drain
requirements shall also include the following:



 



   1.   In areas without sumps, storm drains shall be designed to
remove all runoff from a storm of 10-year frequency.



 



   2.   In sump areas, storm drains shall be designed to remove all
runoff from a storm of 50-year frequency.



 



   3.   Storm drains shall be of sufficient capacity in all cases to
prevent flooding of building sites from a storm of 50-year frequency.



 



   4.   On sidehill streets, the maximum depth of water as determined
by the City Engineer shall be based on a storm of 50-year frequency.



 



   N.   Installation Of Utilities.  (Added by Ord. No. 131,820, Eff.
3/28/66.)  Utility lines, including but not limited to those required for
electricity, communication, street lighting and cable television services
necessary for the general use of the lot owners in the subdivision, shall be
installed or guaranteed to be installed in the same manner as other required
improvements.



 



   In all portions of a Tract Map area classified in the A, R or C zones,
all such utility lines shall be installed underground, provided, however,
that incidental, appurtenant equipment such as transformers, terminal boxes
and meter cabinets may be placed above ground but shall conform with regard
to placement and height with those standards adopted by the Commission as it
determines are necessary to safeguard the public against hazards created by
said equipment and to further the purposes of this article. The Subdivision
Committee shall make its report and recommendation of the Commission prior to
the adoption of said standards. (Amended by Ord. No. 146,985, Eff. 4/11/75.)



 



   The subdivider shall make the necessary Cost and other arrangements for
such underground installation and for relocation of existing facilities with
each of the persons, firms, or corporations furnishing utility services
involved.



 



   O.   Sites for Models.  (Amended by Ord. No. 172,839, Eff.
11/1/99.)  Not more than 15% of the lots and in no case more than 20 lots at
any one time in a subdivision may be designated as sites for the construction
of models, and, with respect to multiple unit structures, not more than 15%
of the units and in no case more than 20 units at any one time in a proposed
building designated as a model site, may be designated as models.



 



   Each of the sites shall be located in a manner as to not adversely
affect existing developed residential properties.  Further, each of the
sites shall be easily accessible and provision for the accessibility shall be
assured at the time that the tentative map is conditionally approved.



 



   P.   Park And Recreation Sites. Park and recreation sites to serve
the future inhabitants of each new subdivision shall be provided and located
in conformance with the standards contained in the Recreation Element of the
General Plan.  (Amended by Ord. No. 141,422, Eff. 2/11/71.)



 



   Q.   Where Subdivision Includes Land Within Drainage District.
Whenever a Subdivision or a portion thereof includes land which is within a
Local Drainage District, the provisions and requirements of the ordinance
establishing such District shall be complied with. (Added by Ord. No.
142,862, Eff. 2/13/72.)



 



   R.   Protected Tree Regulations.  (Amended by Ord. No. 177,404,
Eff. 4/23/06.)  No protected tree may be relocated or removed except as
provided in this article or Article 6 of Chapter IV of this Code.  The term
"removed" or "removal" shall include any act that will cause a protected tree
to die, including but not limited to acts that inflict damage upon the root
system or other parts of the tree by fire, application of toxic substances,
operation of equipment or machinery, or by changing the natural grade of land
by excavation or filling the drip line area around the trunk.



 



   1.   Required Determinations.  Subject to historical preservation
requirements set forth in Subdivision 3. of this subsection, when a protected
tree exists within a proposed subdivision, the tree may be relocated or
removed if the Advisory Agency, in consultation with the City's Chief
Forester, determines the existence of either (a) or (b) below:



 



   (a)   There has been prior applicable government action in which:



 



   (i)   The removal of the tree had been approved by the Advisory
Agency; or



 



   (ii)   The property upon which the protected tree is located has
been the subject of a determination by the City Planning Commission, the City
Council, a Zoning Administrator, or an Area Planning Commission, the appeal
period established by this Code with respect to the determination has
expired, the determination is still in effect, and pursuant to the
determination, the protected tree's removal would be permissible; or



 



   (iii)   A building permit has been issued for the property upon
which the protected tree is located, the permit is still in effect, and the
removal or relocation is not prohibited by the permit.



 



   (b)   The removal of the protected tree would not result in an
undesirable, irreversible soil erosion through diversion or increased flow of
surface waters that cannot be mitigated to the satisfaction of the City's
Chief Forester, and the physical condition or location of the tree is such
that:



 



   (i)   Its continued presence in its existing location prevents the
reasonable development of the property; or



 



   (ii)   According to a report required pursuant to Section 17.06 C.,
acceptable to the Advisory Agency and prepared by a tree expert, there is a
substantial decline from a condition of normal health and vigor of the tree,
and its restoration through appropriate and economically reasonable
preservation procedures and practices is not advisable; or



 



   (iii)   It is in danger of falling due to an existing and
irreversible condition.



 



   (iv)   Its continued presence at its existing location interferes
with proposed utility services or roadways within or without the subject
property, and the only reasonable alternative to the interference is the
removal of the tree; or



 



   (v)   It has no apparent aesthetic value, which will contribute to
the appearance and design of the proposed subdivision; or it is not located
with reference to other trees or monuments in such a way as to acquire a
distinctive significance at the location.



 



   2.   Supplemental Authority.  In the event the Advisory Agency, in
consultation with the City's Chief Forester, determines pursuant to
Subdivision 1.(b) above, that a protected tree may be removed or relocated,
the Advisory Agency may:



 



   (a)   Require relocation elsewhere on the same property where a
protected tree has been approved for removal, and where the relocation is
economically reasonable and favorable to the survival of the tree. 
Relocation to a site other than upon the same property may be permitted where
there is no available or appropriate location on the property and the owner
of the proposed off-site relocation site consents to the placement of a
tree.  In the event of relocation, the Advisory Agency may designate
measures to be taken to mitigate adverse effects on the tree.



 



   (b)   Permit protected trees of a lesser size, or trees of a
different species, to be planted as replacement trees for protected trees
permitted by this Code to be removed or relocated, if replacement trees
required pursuant to this Code are not available.  In that event, the
Advisory Agency may require a greater number of replacement trees.



 



   3.   Historical Monuments.  The Advisory Agency, except as to
Subdivision 1.(b)(iii) above, shall require retention of a protected tree at
its existing location, if the tree is officially designated as an Historical
Monument or as part of an Historic Preservation Overlay Zone.



 



   4.   Requirements.  In the event the Advisory Agency, in
consultation with the City's Chief Forester, determines pursuant to
Subdivision 1.(b) above that a protected tree may be removed or relocated,
the Advisory Agency shall require that:



 



   (a)   The protected tree is replaced within the property by at least
two trees of a protected variety included within the definition set forth in
Section 17.02 of this article, except where the protected tree is relocated
pursuant to Subdivision 2.(a) above.  The size of each replacement tree
shall be a 15-gallon, or larger, specimen, measuring one inch or more in
diameter at a point one foot above the base, and not less than seven feet in
height, measured from the base.  The size and number of replacement trees
shall approximate the value of the tree to be replaced.



 



   (b)   The subdivider record those covenants and agreements approved
by the Advisory Agency necessary to assure compliance with conditions imposed
by the Advisory Agency and to assure protected tree preservation.



 



   (c)   The subdivider provide protected tree maintenance information
to purchasers of lots within the proposed subdivision.



 



   (d)   The subdivider post a bond or other assurance acceptable to
the City Engineer to guarantee the survival of trees required to be replaced
or permitted or required to be relocated, in a manner to assure the existence
of continuously living trees at the approved replacement or relocation site
for three years from the date that the trees are replaced or relocated.  The
City Engineer shall use the provisions of Section 17.08 G. as its procedural
guide in satisfaction of the bond requirements and processing.  Any bond
required shall be in a sum estimated by the City Engineer to be equal to the
dollar value of the replacement tree or of the tree that is to be
relocated.  In determining value for these purposes, the City Engineer shall
consult with the Advisory Agency, the City's Chief Forester, the evaluation
of trees guidelines approved and adopted for professional plantsmen by the
International Society of Arboriculture, the American Society of Consulting
Arborists, the National Arborists Association and the American Association of
Nurserymen, and other available, local information or guidelines.



 



   5.   Grading.  The Advisory Agency is authorized to prohibit
grading or other construction activity within the drip line of a protected
tree.



 



   S.   Mulholland Scenic Parkway.  (Amended by Ord. No. 156,534, Eff.
4/24 /82.) Notwithstanding the street standards adopted by the City Planning
Commission pursuant to this section, the width and improvement standards for
the Mulholland Scenic Parkway shall be substantially as follows: two travel
lanes, one in each direction, each 15 feet wide; passing lane segments and
turn pockets where necessary to facilitate movement of traffic; substantial
conformance to existing roadway alignment; no median strip except to
facilitate turning movements; hard surfaced shoulders but with a natural
look, separated from the roadway by a painted line where the shoulder is
utilized for bikeway purposes; minimum street and driveway access to the
Parkway; reasonable protection of a scenic corridor 500 feet more or less,
depending on topography, from each side of the existing right-of-way, to
preserve the scenic quality and for the development of parks, vista points,
parking facilities, and continuous bicycle, equestrian and hiking trails; all
utilities to be underground; all necessary signs and road related fixtures to
be of a special design to blend with the scenic character of the Parkway;
grading to be kept to an absolute minimum; all necessary grading to be gently
contoured and fully landscaped with fire–resistant plants to present a
natural appearance.



 



   It shall be the duty of the Advisory Agency to interpret and apply
these standards in conformance with the spirit and intent of the Report of
the Citizens’ Advisory Committee on the Mulholland Scenic Parkway as
adopted as City policy by the City Council on March 26, 1973, under Council
File No. 70-5000, or with such Parkway plans as may subsequently be adopted.



 



   Said standards are applicable to any subdivision or parcel map within
500 feet of the right-of-way of Mulholland Drive between the Hollywood
Freeway on the west and Mulholland Highway on the west and along Mulholland
Highway to the southerly city boundary, as shown on the City Engineer’s
official cadastral or district maps.



 



   T.   Valley Circle Boulevard – Plummer Street Scenic Corridor. 
(Added by  Ord. No. 151,615, Eff. 12/3/78.)  Notwithstanding the street
standards adopted by the City Planning Commission pursuant to this section,
the width and improvement standards for Valley Circle Boulevard from Roscoe
Boulevard to Plummer Street and for Plummer Street from Valley Circle
Boulevard to Topanga Canyon Boulevard shall be substantially as follows:



 



   1.   Two travel lanes, one in each direction;



 



   2.   Left turn pockets as needed;



 



   3.   48 feet of paved roadway, including 2–foot wide concrete
gutters and curbs;



 



   4.   No continuous raised median strip;



 



   5.   Wide shoulders to accommodate recreation trails;



 



   6.   Minimum street and driveway access to the roadway;



 



   7.   All utilities to be underground;



 



   8.   Lighting only at intersections and parking areas, and kept to a
minimum useful Intensity;



 



   9.   Fire Hydrants and light standards located away from the roadway
for increased safety;



 



   10.   Picnic areas, drinking fountains, restrooms facilities,
watering troughs, hitching rails and simple shade structures provided at
suitable locations;



 



   11.   The general design and development of the roadway, trails,
turnouts, and all appurtenant fixtures, facilities and amenities to be
rustic, natural and in keeping with the scenic character of the corridor;



 



   12.   Reasonable protection of a scenic corridor, 1500 feet more or
less depending on topography, from each side of the existing
rights–of–way, to preserve the scenic quality, protect long–distance
views, and for the development of parks, vista points, parking facilities,
and continuous trails;



 



   13.   Specific dimension standards for a 100-foot-wide right-of-way,
the preferred width, shall be a 14-foot-wide two-way bicycle path, a hiking
trail meandering in a 10-foot–wide landscaped parkway, a 16-foot-wide
equestrian trail bordered by bolted wood fences and a 12-foot-wide parkway on
the opposite side of the roadway;



 



   14.   The dimension standards for an 86-foot-wide right-of-way shall
be a 12- foot-wide two-way bicycle path, hiking trail meandering in an
8-foot-wide landscaped parkway, a 12-foot-wide equestrian trail bordered by
bolted wood fences and a 6-foot-wide parkway on the opposite side of the
roadway;



 



   15.   Trails to be built prior to or concurrently with the roadway,
and to have suitable crossings and access to areas of interest;



 



   16.   Attractively designed masonry walls and/or screening
landscaping along the edges of private developments adjacent to the scenic
corridor;



 



   17.   Maximum preservation of natural terrain and vegetation;



 



   18.   Grading to be kept to an absolute minimum; all necessary
grading to be gently contoured and fully landscaped with native,
low-water-need, fire-resistant plants to present a natural appearance;



 



   19.   All buildings in the corridor to be placed so as to preserve a
clear line of sight from the roadway to the visible mountain crest;



 



   20.   Off-site advertising signs to be prohibited within the
corridor;



 



   21.   On-site advertising, traffic, informational and regulatory
signs to be kept to a minimum number and size, and to be of special rustic
design.



 



   It shall be the duty of the Advisory Agency to interpret and apply
these standards in conformance with the spirit and intent of the Valley
Circle Boulevard  Plummer Street Scenic Corridor Study adopted as City
policy by the City Council on March 28, 1977, under Council File No. 77-82,
or with such parkway plans as may subsequently be adopted.



 



   The standards stated herein are applicable to any subdivision or parcel
map within 1500 feet of the right-of-way of Valley Circle Boulevard from
Roscoe Boulevard to Plummer Street and of Plummer Street from Valley Circle
Boulevard to Topanga Canyon Boulevard as shown on the City Engineer’s
official cadastral or district maps.



 



   U.   Preliminary Soils Report.  (Added by Ord. No. 157,517, Eff.
5/2/83,) A preliminary soils report, prepared by a civil engineer registered
in California, and based upon adequate test borings is required with the
Tentative Map of any subdivision. Provided that the Advisory Agency may waive
the preliminary soils report upon its determination that no preliminary
analysis is necessary due to its knowledge of the soils qualities of the
soils of the subdivision.



 



   If the preliminary soils report indicates the presence of critically
expansive soils or other soils problems which, if not corrected, would lead
to structural defects, a soils investigation of each lot in the subdivision
may be required. Such soils investigation shall be done by a civil engineer
registered in California, who shall recommend the corrective action which is
likely to prevent structural damage to each structure proposed to be
constructed in the area where such soils problem exists. The Advisory Agency
may approve the subdivision or a portion thereof where such soils problems
exist if it determines that the recommended corrective action is likely to
prevent structural damage to each structure to be constructed, and as a
condition to the issuance of any building permit may require that the
approved recommended action be incorporated in the construction of each
structure.



 



 



SEC. 17.06.  TENTATIVE MAP AND APPEALS.



 



   A.   Procedure.



 



   1.   Filing Notice and Reports.  (Amended by Ord. No. 165,851, Eff.
6/11/90.)  The subdivider shall pay the necessary fees for and file with the
City Planning Department at least 25 copies of the Tentative Map, two copies
of an area map showing the location of ownerships which are located within
the area covered by the Tentative Map and within a 500-foot radius of the
proposed subdivision; and two copies of a certified list showing the names
and addresses of owners of all property and the addresses of all residential,
commercial, and industrial occupants of all property located within 500 feet
of the proposed subdivision. Thereafter, the Department shall forthwith
furnish a copy of the certified list of names and addresses and a copy of the
area map to the Bureau of Engineering and copies of the Tentative Map to each
member of the Subdivision Committee and to any other departments or public
agencies which the Advisory Agency had determined may have an interest in the
proposed subdivision. The members of said committee shall make such
examination of the map and property, and make such reports and
recommendations to the Advisory Agency as they find are necessary. All such
reports must be submitted in writing. Such reports shall be made within 39
calendar days after the filing of the map or within such additional time as
the Advisory Agency may approve.



 



   The members of said committee shall, at the time of the submission of
their reports to the Advisory Agency, submit copies of such reports to the
subdivider. This requirement shall be deemed complied with when such reports
or recommendations are placed in the mail, directed to the subdivider at his
designated address, and bearing the proper postage. Failure of any member of
said committee to submit his report in writing within the time limits
specified above shall be construed as indicating that said member has no
recommendation to submit concerning the Tentative Map.



 



   The Department shall notify all persons shown on the required list and
map provided by the subdivider.  Such notification shall be in writing and
mailed not less than ten days prior to the Tentative Map being considered by
the Advisory Agency.



 



   Notice of the public hearing shall be posted, by the applicant, in a
conspicuous place on the property involved at least ten days prior to the
date of the public hearing.



 



   2.   Action of Advisory Agency.  (Amended by Ord. No. 143,254, Eff.
5/14/72.) The Advisory Agency shall approve, conditionally approve or
disapprove the Tentative Map within 50 calendar days after the filing of the
Map with the City or within such additional time as mutually agreed upon by
the Advisory Agency and the Subdivider.



 



   (a)   The Advisory Agency may disapprove a Tentative Map because of
the flood hazard, inundation, lack of adequate access, lack of adequate water
supply or fire protection, insufficient sewerage facilities, potentially
hazardous geological conditions or non–compliance with the requirements of
this article, the Subdivision Map Act, or the standards, rules or regulations
adopted by the Commission pursuant to the provisions of Section 17.05 of this
Code.



 



   (b)   Whenever two or more lots are to be created on a common slope
and the City Engineer or Superintendent of Building determines that
conditions so dictate, the Advisory Agency may require as a condition of
approval of the Tentative Map that appropriate deed covenants, on a form
approved by the City Attorney, be recorded which provide to each owner of
said common slope a joint right of entry for necessary access of men and
equipment, and a joint easement over the slope area to maintain and repair
any portions of said common slope.



 



   (c)   All streets on the Tentative Map shall be identified by their
proposed names. All proposed street names shall be approved by the City
Engineer. The Advisory Agency may withhold approval of the map if the City
Engineer has determined that a proposed street name would create confusion,
be misleading, be unduly long or carry connotations offensive to good taste
and decency.  (Added by Ord. No. 158,691, Eff. 3/12/84.)



 



   (d)   When the Advisory Agency has disapproved a Tentative Map of a
proposed subdivision, it may subsequently approve a new Tentative Map for the
same property if it determines that arrangements have been made to correct
the conditions which were the cause of the original disapproval within
specified time limits.  (Redesignated (d), Ord. No. 158,691, Eff. 3/12/84.)



 



   (e)   When the Advisory Agency takes action on the Tentative Map, it
shall report its action in writing directly to the subdivider and a copy of
the Tentative Map showing the action taken by the Advisory Agency on it shall
be returned to the subdivider. The City Engineer and the Department of
Transportation shall be notified of the action of the Advisory Agency. 
(Redesignated (e), Ord. No. 158,691, Eff. 3/12/84.)



 



   (f)   The Department of Building and Safety may issue a building
permit for a small lot subdivision if the applicant for the permit has
received a vesting Tentative Tract Map approval or Preliminary Parcel Map
approval for the project and has submitted proof to the satisfaction of the
Department of Building and Safety that a covenant and agreement has been
recorded.  This covenant and agreement shall state that the applicant and
the applicant's successors and assignees agree that the building permit is
issued on the condition that a certificate of occupancy (temporary or final)
for the building cannot be issued until after the final map has been
recorded.  The Department of Building and Safety shall then issue the
building permit based upon the approved Tentative or Preliminary Map and its
conditions of approval.  The dedication, improvement, and sewer requirements
identified in the approved Tentative or Preliminary Map or its conditions of
approval must be guaranteed to the satisfaction of the Bureau of Engineering
at the time of building permit issuance.  Projects with the following
features are not eligible to receive building permits prior to the
recordation of a final map: off-site common access or a street or alley
vacation or merger.  (Added by Ord. No. 183,165, Eff. 9/15/14.)



 



   3.   Appeal to the Appeal Board.  (Amended by Ord. No. 177,103,
Eff. 12/18/05.)  The subdivider, the Mayor, any member of the City Council,
or any other interested person adversely affected by the proposed subdivision
may appeal any action of the Advisory Agency with respect to the tentative
map or the kind, nature or extent of the improvement required to the Appeal
Board.



 



   Appeals to the Appeal Board shall be filed in duplicate, in a public
office of the Department of City Planning on forms provided for that purpose
within ten days of the date of mailing of the written decision of the
Advisory Agency and shall be accompanied by the fee required in Section 19.02
of this Code.  No appeal shall be considered filed until the form has been
properly completed and all information required by it has been submitted. 
The completed appeal form and file shall then immediately be transmitted to
the Appeal Board Secretary for a public hearing before the Appeal Board.



 



   The Appeal Board, upon notice to the subdivider, the appellant and the
Advisory Agency, shall hear the appeal within 30 days after it is filed,
unless the subdivider consents to an extension of time pursuant to
Subdivision 5. of this subsection.  At the time established for the hearing,
the Appeal Board shall hear the testimony of the subdivider, the appellant,
the Advisory Agency and any witnesses on their behalf.  The Appeal Board may
also hear the testimony of other competent persons with respect to the
character of the neighborhood in which the subdivision is to be located, the
kind, nature and extent of improvements, the quality or kinds of development
to which the area is best adapted or any other phase of the matter into which
the Appeal Board may desire to inquire.



 



   Upon conclusion of the hearing, the Appeal Board shall within ten days
render its decision on the appeal based upon the testimony and documents
produced before it.  It may sustain, modify, reject or overrule any
recommendations or ruling of the Advisory Agency, and shall make findings
consistent with the provisions of this article and the Subdivision Map Act.



 



   Failure to Act.  If at the end of the time limit specified in this
subsection or at the end of any extension of time pursuant to subdivision 5.
of this subsection, the Appeal Board fails to act, the appeal shall be deemed
denied; the decision from which the appeal was taken shall be deemed affirmed
and an appeal may be filed and taken to the City Council pursuant to
Subdivision 4. below.



 



   4.   Appeal to Council.  (Amended by Ord. No. 177,103, Eff.
12/18/05.)  The subdivider, the Mayor, any member of the City Council, the
Advisory Agency, or any other interested person adversely affected by the
proposed subdivision may appeal any action of the Appeal Board with respect
to the tentative map or the kinds, nature or extent of the improvements
required by the Appeal Board to the City Council.



 



   Appeals to the City Council shall be filed in duplicate, in a public
office of the Department of City Planning on the forms provided for that
purpose within ten days of the date of mailing of the written decision of the
Appeal Board and shall be accompanied by the fee required in Section 19.02 of
this Code.  No appeal shall be considered filed until the form has been
properly completed and all information required by it has been submitted. 
The completed appeal form and file shall then immediately be transmitted to
the City Clerk for a public hearing before the City Council.



 



   The City Council shall hear the appeal within 30 days after it is
filed, unless the subdivider consents to an extension of time pursuant to
Subdivision 5 of this subsection.  The Council shall give notice of the
hearing to the subdivider, the appellant, the Appeal Board and the Advisory
Agency.  At the time established for the hearing, the Council or its
Committee shall hear the testimony of the subdivider, the appellant, the
Advisory Agency and any witnesses on their behalf.  The City Council may
also hear the testimony of other competent persons with respect to the
character of the neighborhood in which the subdivision is to be located, the
kind, nature and extent of improvements, the quality or kinds of development
to which the area is best adapted or any other phase of the matter into which
the City Council may desire to inquire.



 



   Upon conclusion of the hearing, the City Council shall within ten days
render its decision on the appeal based upon the testimony and documents
produced before it.  The City Council may sustain, modify, reject or
overrule any recommendations or rulings of the Appeal Board and shall make
findings consistent with the provisions of this article and the Subdivision
Map Act.



 



   If at the end of the time limit specified in this subsection, or at the
end of any extension of time pursuant to Subdivision 5. of this subsection,
the City Council fails to act, the appeal shall be deemed denied and the
decision from which the appeal was taken shall be deemed affirmed.  It shall
be the duty of the City Clerk to issue the decision.



 



   5.   Extension of Time.  (Amended by Ord. No. 177,103, Eff.
12/18/05.)  Any of the time limits specified in this section may be extended
by mutual consent of the subdivider and the Advisory Agency, the Appeal Board
or the City Council, as the case may be.



 



   6.   Condominium and Stock Cooperative Notice. (Amended by Ord. No.
154,960, Eff. 4/3/81.) The following provisions shall apply only to cases
where property is proposed for subdivision into condominiums, stock
cooperatives or community apartments, whether by new construction or by
conversion of an existing building. In such cases, notice to tenants shall be
given as provided herein. These provisions are in addition to other notice
provisions of the Municipal Code and shall apply to any subdivision for which
notice of the public hearings before the Advisory Agency has not been sent by
December 28, 1979. The Department of City Planning shall give notice of any
public hearings before the Advisory Agency on a Tentative Map or Preliminary
Parcel Map. Such notice shall be in writing and mailed not less than 15 days
prior to such public hearing to all names shown on a current list of tenants
of the property proposed for subdivision, which list shall be provided by the
subdivider and shall include the name and address of one tenant in each
rental unit on the property.



 



   The subdivider shall give written notice of any subdivision approval to
at least one tenant in each rental unit on the property within 30 days of
such approval. The subdivider or record owner of the property for which a
subdivision application is pending or approved shall give notice of such fact
to any prospective tenant of the property before entering into any written or
oral rental agreement with such prospective tenant.



 



   This subsection may be enforced through Tentative Map or Preliminary
Parcel Map condition or a covenant running with the land and shall apply to
all subdivisions for which an application is filed on or after December 28,
1979.



 



   B.   Map Requirement. Tentative Maps filed with the City Planning
Department shall be prepared by or under the direction of a licensed surveyor
or registered civil engineer. Such maps shall clearly show all information
required by this article, and shall be drawn to an engineer’s scale of not
less than one inch equals 200 feet.



 



   The Tentative Map shall contain all the following:



 



   1.   The tract number.



 



   2.   Sufficient legal description of the property to define its
boundaries.



 



   3.   Names, addresses and telephone numbers of the record owner,
subdivider, and person preparing the map.



 



   4.   North point, engineering scale, date and area.



 



   5.   The widths and approximate locations of all existing and
proposed public easements or rights of way, or private street easements,
within and adjacent to the property involved.  (Amended by Ord. No. 176,321,
Eff. 1/15/05.)



 



   6.   Locations, widths and approximate grades of existing and
proposed highways, streets, alleys or ways, whether public or private within
and adjacent to the property involved.



 



   7.   Existing street names, and names or designations for all
proposed streets and highways.



 



   8.   Approximate radii of all center line curves for streets,
highways, alleys or ways.



 



   9.   Lot layout, approximate dimensions of each lot and number of
each lot.



 



   10.   The locations of potentially dangerous areas, including
geologically hazardous areas and areas subject to inundation or flood hazard;
the location, width and direction of flow of all watercourses, flood control
channels, and mud or debris paths where ravines or swales will exist within
and adjacent to the property involved; building setbacks from such hazards,
the proposed method of providing flood, erosion and mud or debris control;
and areas where access and emergency paths will be located in the event flood
design capacity is exceeded. Lot lines shall be located so that the flow of
watercourses and mud and debris paths, access and emergency paths, and
setbacks shall be adjacent to lot lines or in areas or restrictions against
construction. (Amended by Ord. No. 151,828, Eff. 2/16/79.)



 



   11.   The existing contour of the land at intervals of not more than
five feet, and of not more than two–foot intervals if the slope of the land
is less than five per cent.



 



   12.   The approximate location of all buildings or structures on the
property involved which are to be retained, notations concerning all
buildings which are to be removed, and approximate locations of all existing
wells.



 



   13.   The approximate location and general description of any large
or historically significant trees and of any protected trees and an
indication as to the proposed retention or destruction of the trees. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 177,404, Eff. 4/23/06.)



 



   14.   If any streets shown on the Tentative Map are proposed to be
private streets, they shall be clearly indicated. Such streets shall conform
to the requirements of Article 8 of this chapter or shall have been
previously approved in accordance with the then applicable provisions of the
said article. (Amended by Ord. No. 126,486, Eff. 3/1/64.)



 



   15.   The proposed method of providing sewage disposal and drainage
for the property.



 



   16.   A statement regarding existing and proposed zoning.



 



   C.   Protected Tree Reports for Tentative Tract Maps.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 177,404, Eff. 4/23/06.)  No application for a tentative tract map
approval for a subdivision where a protected tree is located shall be
considered complete unless it includes a report, in a form acceptable to the
Advisory Agency and the City's Chief Forester, which pertains to preserving
the tree and evaluates the subdivider's proposals for the preservation,
removal, replacement or relocation of the tree.  The report shall be
prepared by a tree expert and shall include all protected trees identified
pursuant to Section 17.06 B.13. of this Code.



 



   In the event the subdivider proposes any grading, land movement, or
other activity within the drip line of a protected tree referred to in the
report, or proposes to relocate or remove any protected tree, the report
shall also evaluate any mitigation measures proposed by the subdivider and
their anticipated effectiveness in preserving the tree.



 



 



SEC. 17.07.  FINAL MAP.



 



   A.   Time Limit.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,106, Eff. 5/20/12.) 
The following provisions establish the term of tentative map approvals:



 



   1.   Within 36 months after the approval or conditional approval of
the Tentative Map, the subdivider shall cause the proposed subdivision to be
accurately surveyed and a final map prepared and filed with the City
Engineer.  The failure of a subdivider to file a map with the City Engineer
within that period and to have the map submitted by the City Engineer to the
City Council within  the specified time limit shall automatically terminate
and void the proceedings unless the time is extended by the Advisory Agency,
the Appeal Board, or the City Council upon appeal from a denial of the
extension by the Advisory Agency.  The appeal shall follow the time limits
and procedures set forth in Subdivisions 3., 4., and 5. of Subsection A. of
Section 17.06 of this Code.



 



   2.   The time limit for filing the final map with the City Engineer
and submittal by the City Engineer of the final map to the City Council may
be extended for a period or periods not exceeding a total of 72 months.



 



   EXCEPTION.  The term of a tentative map approval shall be
automatically extended pursuant to the provisions of California Governmental
Code Sections 66452.21, 66452.22, and 66452.23, and any other current or
future provision of the Subdivision Map Act that operates to extend the term
of a tentative map approval.



 



   B.   Procedure.  A Final Map shall be prepared and filed with the
City Engineer in compliance with the provisions of this article. Final Maps
shall conform substantially to the approved Tentative Map. When a Final Map
covers only a portion of the property shown on the Tentative Map, it shall be
submitted to the Advisory Agency for its approval prior to submission to the
City Engineer for checking. The Advisory Agency may refuse to approve the
recording of any such map that does not by itself provide adequate or
satisfactory access, design or improvements. The City Engineer may refuse to
approve the recording of a Final Map covering only a portion of a Tentative
Map, when in the process of checking the Final Map, he determines that it
will not be feasible from an engineering standpoint to construct satisfactory
improvements in the reduced area, unless additional street or easement
dedications and improvements beyond the boundaries of the Final Map are
provided.



 



   1.   The Final Map shall be accepted by the City Council provided;



 



   (a)   The necessary improvements as set forth in the approval of the
Tentative Map have been installed and approved by the City, or provided the
subdivider submits satisfactory improvement plans together with the necessary
guarantee that the improvements will be installed.



 



   (b)   The required map checking fees have been paid by the
subdivider.



 



   (c)   All checking has been completed by the various departments and
public agencies.



 



   (d)   Taxes, liens and special assessments have been paid, or such
payment guaranteed.



 



   2.   No Final Map shall be recorded until the required improvements
have been installed or agreed to be installed.



 



   C.   Final Map Requirements. The following information shall be
submitted with the Final Map: names, addresses and telephone numbers of the
record owners, subdivider and person preparing the Final Map. The general
form and layout of the map, including size and type of lettering, drafting
and location of acknowledgments, etc. shall be determined by the City
Engineer. The map shall be prepared on high–quality tracing cloth or other
material approved by the City Engineer. (Amended by Ord. No. 129,575, Eff.
4/4/65.)



 



   1.   Each sheet of said Final Map shall be 18 × 26 inches. A
marginal line shall be drawn completely around each sheet, leaving a blank
margin of one inch. The scale of the map shall be such as to show all details
clearly. Each sheet shall be numbered, and its relation to other sheets
clearly shown. The tract number, scale and north point shall be shown on each
sheet. If more than three sheets are necessary to show the entire
subdivision, an index map shall be included on one of the sheets. The
boundary line of a subdivision shall be indicated by distinctive symbols and
clearly so designated. (Amended by Ord. No. 146,985, Eff. 4/11/75.)



 



   2.   Where any land to be subdivided is separated or divided into
two or more parcels or portions by any parcel of land other than a street,
highway, or other public way, or a railroad, public utility or flood control
right of way, each separate parcel or portion thereof shall be subdivided as
a separate parcel and shown on a separate subdivision map.



 



   D.   Boundary Evidence. Such stakes, monuments or other evidence
determining the boundaries of the subdivision as are found on the ground,
together with sufficient designations of adjoining subdivisions by lot and
tract number and page of record, or by section, township and range, or other
proper legal description as may be necessary to locate precisely the limits
of the subdivision, shall be clearly and fully shown on the Final Map.



 



   E.   Monuments.



 



   1.   Boundary. (Amended by Ord. No. 129,967, Eff. 6/14/65.) Each
Final Map shall show durable monuments of not less than two–inch steel pipe
at least 24 inches long found or set at or near each boundary corner and at
intermediate points, approximately 1,000 feet apart, or at such lesser
distance as may be necessary by topography or culture to assure accuracy in
reestablishment of any point or line without unreasonable difficulty. The
precise position and character of each monument shall be shown on the Final
Map. Where the elevation of the top of each such monument is not
approximately level with the surface of the ground, its relative position
shall be indicated.



 



   The establishment of boundary monuments may be required by the Advisory
Agency, the Appeal Board or the City Council upon appeal, prior to the
recordation of the Final Map, however, such requirement may be modified to
accept the submission of complete field notes as evidence of a thorough
survey, or the setting of only a portion of the boundary monuments, or the
referencing of monuments to adjacent reference points. The City Engineer
shall submit a recommendation concerning this matter. Said reference points
shall be indicated in a set of field notes showing clearly the ties between
such monuments and sufficient number to set accurately each boundary monument
after recordation of the Final Map. Said boundary monuments shall be properly
located by coordinates in the California Coordinate System or in such manner
as determined by the City Engineer to be suitable and sufficient



 



   2.   Center Line. Complete center line data, including lengths of
tangents and semi-tangents, shall be shown on the map for all streets within
or adjoining the tract where no official center line has been previously
established. In locations where the point of intersection falls on private
property, chords shall be shown instead of semi-tangents. The subdivider
shall have approved monuments placed with permanent references thereto and
furnish a set of field notes to the City Engineer.



 



   3.   Deferment. In the event any or all of the monuments required to
be set are subsequent to the recordation of the Final Map, the map shall
clearly show and describe such monuments. All such monuments or the
furnishing of notes thereon so deferred shall be agreed to be set and
furnished by the subdivider.



 



   When the placement of monuments is to be deferred, the Bureau of
Engineering shall charge and collect a fee of $443 for the service of
receiving and processing a bond to guarantee placement of the monuments. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 184,054, Eff. 3/6/16.)



 



   4.   Geodetic Controls. Ties to the Geodetic Triangulation System
shall be provided where stations thereof have been established within
reasonable distance from the subdivision boundary, and such ties are deemed
necessary by the City Engineer.



 



   F.   Surveys.



 



   1.   Requirements. The procedure and practice of all survey work,
done on any subdivision, shall conform to the accepted standards of
engineering and surveying professions. The Final Map shall close in all its
parts.



 



   In the event the City Engineer shall have established the center line
of any street or alley in or adjoining a subdivision, the Final Map shall
show such center line together with the reference to a field book or map
showing such center line and the monuments which determine its position. If
determined by ties, that fact shall be stated on the Final Map.



 



   2.   Notes to be Furnished. For such center line monument set, the
engineer or surveyor under whose supervision the survey has been made shall
furnish to the City Engineer a set of notes showing clearly the ties such
monument and a sufficient number (normally four) of durable distinctive
reference points or monuments. Such reference points may be lead and tacks in
sidewalks, or curbs, or two–inch × two–inch stakes set back of the curb
line and below the surface of the ground or such substitute thereof as
appears to be not more likely to be disturbed.



 



   Such set of notes shall be of such quality, form and completeness, and
shall be on paper of such quality and size as may be necessary to conform to
the standardized office records of the City Engineer. All such notes shall be
indexed by the City Engineer as part of the permanent public records of his
office.



 



   3.   Identification Marks. All monuments set as required herein
shall be permanently and visibly marked or tagged with the registration or
license number of the engineer or surveyor under whose supervision the survey
was made.



 



   G.   Bearings.



 



   1.   Basis. The Final Map shall indicate thereon the basis of
bearings, making reference to some recorded subdivision map, or other record
acceptable to the City Engineer.



 



   The Final Map shall have as the basis of bearings a line based on the
Geodetic Triangulation System where ties to said system are deemed feasible
by the City Engineer.



 



   2.   Distances. The bearing and length of each lot line, block line
and boundary line shall be shown on the Final Map, and each required bearing
and distance shall be indicated.



 



   H.   Lot Numbers. The lots shall be numbered consecutively
commencing with the number 1, except as otherwise provided herein, with no
omissions or duplications. each numbered lot shall be shown entirely on one
sheet.



 



   I.   Curve Data. The length, radius and total central angle and
bearings of terminal radii of each curve and the bearing of each radial line
to each lot corner on each curve, and the central angle of each segment
within each lot shall be shown on the Final Map.



 



   J.   Easements.



 



   1.   Lines. The Final Map shall show all the necessary data
including width and side lines of all public easements to which the lots in
the subdivision are subject. If the easement is not definitely located on
record, a statement as to the easement shall appear on the title sheet.



 



   2.   Designation. Easements shall be denoted by broken lines.



 



   3.   Identification. Each easement shall be clearly labeled and
identified and, if already of record, proper reference to the records given.
Easements being dedicated shall be so indicated in the Certificate of
Dedication.



 



   K.   City Boundary Lines. City boundary lines crossing or abutting
the subdivision shall be clearly designated and tied in.



 



   L.   Natural Water Course Designation. In the event that a
dedication of right of way for flood control or storm drainage is not
required, the location of any natural water course shall be shown on the
Final Map, unless such natural water course, channel, stream or creek is ,
shown on the grading plans to be filled or otherwise eliminated by the
grading of the tract.



 



   M.   Title Sheet. The title sheet for each Final Map of a
subdivision shall contain all the certificates and acknowledgment required by
the Subdivision Map Act. The wording of such certificates and acknowledgments
shall be approved by the City Attorney. Forms of certificates and
acknowledgment may be obtained from the City Engineer.



 



   In addition to the certificates required by the Subdivision Map Act,
the City Engineer shall certify that the subdivision substantially conform to
the approved Tentative Map, and the required public improvements have been
installed or agreed to be installed. If any portion of a subdivision is
located in a hillside area, it shall not be certified by the City Engineer
until the Superintendent of Building has submitted a report to him that said
portion has been graded in accordance with approved plans as required by
Article 1 of Chapter 9 of the Municipal Code, or that an agreement to so
grade has been entered into.



 



   N.   (Deleted by Ord. No. 184,505, Eff. 1/11/17.)



 



 



SEC. 17.07.1.  NOTIFICATION REGARDING STREET LIGHTING MAINTENANCE
ASSESSMENTS.



 



   The City Engineer shall cause to be filed, at the time of filing of any
subdivision map with the County Recorder, a notice or notices which shall
provide information with respect to each parcel in the subdivision regarding
the obligation of any purchaser of such property to pay street lighting
maintenance assessments pursuant to the provisions of Article 1 of Chapter 3
of Division 6 of the Los Angeles Administrative Code. (Added by Ord. No.
155,065, Eff. 5/17/81.)



 



 



SEC. 17.07.2.  NOTIFICATION REGARDING SEWER PUMPING AND/OR DRAINAGE
FACILITIES AND MAINTENANCE DISTRICTS.



 



   The subdivider shall execute and record with the County Recorder a
notice identifying all sewer pumping and/or drainage facilities within the
subdivision, either in existence or to be constructed, which could be
maintained under maintenance district procedures authorized by Division 6 of
the Los Angeles Administrative Code. Such notice shall provide information
regarding the possible obligation of each lot owner for assessments and shall
be recorded at the time the final subdivision map is filed with the County
Recorder. (Added by Ord. No. 159,088, Eff. 7/28/84.)



 



 



SEC. 17.08.  IMPROVEMENTS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 157,811, Eff. 8/13/83.)



 



   A.   Requirements.  The streets, alleys, lots and easements in all
subdivisions subject to the provisions of this article shall be laid out to
provide for sewer and drainage facilities. All streets and alleys and other
public ways and easements within and immediately adjoining the subdivision,
together with any drainage and sanitary sewer easements, shall be graded and
improved to a width and grade in accordance with plans approved by the City
Engineer. Other improvements as authorized by the Subdivision Map Act may be
required.



 



   1.   In addition to permanent improvements, temporary improvements
may be required to be made prior to or concurrent with permanent
improvements. In hillside areas, temporary erosion control devices shall be
designed and installed in a manner approved by the Board of Public Works and
the Department of Building and Safety.



 



   2.   If the subdivision has been submitted only for the purpose of
clarifying records by consolidating existing lots and/or metes and bounds
parcels, or for the purpose of absorbing vacated streets or alleys or for the
purpose of reversion to acreage, the Advisory Agency upon the recommendation
of the City Engineer may waive all or a portion of the improvements which
otherwise would be required.



 



   B.   Improvement Plans.  Final plans, profiles and specifications
for improvements shall be furnished to the City Engineer for approval and
processing concurrently with the checking of the Final Tract or Parcel Map.
Such plans, profiles and specifications shall show full details for such
improvements, and shall be in accordance with the standards adopted by the
City of Los Angeles.



 



   In lieu of final plans, profiles and specifications, the subdivider may
furnish preliminary plans for improvements in a form satisfactory to the City
Engineer, provided the subdivider agrees to furnish final plans, profiles and
specifications to the City Engineer not later than six months from the date
the Final Map or Final Parcel Map is filed for recording with the County
Recorder. Preliminary plans shall be of sufficient detail and extent so as to
permit the City Engineer to determine the type, extent, quantity and
estimated cost of the required improvements.



 



   C.   Street Lighting. Plans for a street lighting system shall be
submitted to and be approved by the Bureau of Street Lighting. The time
requirement for submittal shall be as prescribed in Subsection B hereof.



 



   D.   (None)



 



   E.   (None)



 



   F.   Street Trees. Arrangements between the subdivider and the City
shall be made whereby the subdivider either places street trees in
subdivisions to the satisfaction of the Bureau of Street Maintenance of the
Department of Public Works, or makes a cash payment to the City. The amount
of cash payment shall be in accordance with rates established by the Board of
Public Works. When planted by the City, street trees may be planted under
contract or by City forces.



 



   Any street tree planted by a subdivider, or for which a payment is made
to the City of Los Angeles to provide such tree, shall be subject to the
street tree maintenance fee set forth in Section 62.176 of this Code



 



   G.   Guarantees.



 



   1.   No Final Tract or Final Parcel Map shall be presented to the
Council for approval until the subdivider/owner has completed the
improvements, or has guaranteed that all improvements will be constructed and
installed within a specified time. The requirement of guaranteeing the
construction and installation of improvements shall not be waived under any
condition except as provided herein. Final Parcel Maps, the preliminary maps
for which have been approved by the Advisory Agency specifying that
improvements are not required until such time as a building permit or other
grant of approval for development is issued, are exempt from this provision.
California non–profit corporations shall be exempt from these requirements
to the extent provided in the Subdivision Map Act.



 



   2.   The guarantee shall be furnished in accordance with the
provisions of this subsection:



 



   a.   Improvement Agreement. The subdivider/owner shall execute an
Improvement Agreement. Under the terms of this agreement, the
subdivider/owner shall, among other things, agree to construct and install
the improvements at the subdivider/owner’s expense; shall warrant all work
performed against any defective work or labor done, or defective materials
furnished for a period of one year following acceptance by the City Engineer
of all improvements; and shall agree to reimburse the City for all costs and
reasonable expenses and fees incurred by the City in enforcing the terms of
the agreement including reasonable attorney’s fees.



 



   b.   Improvement Security. Performance of the Improvement Agreement
shall be guaranteed by one of the following, at the option of and subject to
the approval of the City:



 



   (l)   A surety bond or bonds payable to the City, executed by the
subdivider/owner as principal and one or more corporate sureties authorized
to act as surety under the laws of the State of California and having a
certificate of authority as acceptable surety on Federal bonds; or



 



   (2)   A deposit of cash; or



 



   (3)   A deposit of negotiable United States Treasury bonds or notes,
for which the faith and credit of the United States are pledged for the
payment of principal and interest, payable to the bearer; or



 



   (4)   A deposit of fully insured certificates of deposit issued by a
financial institution whose deposits are insured by an instrumentality of the
Federal Government, together with a nonrevocable assignment to the City that
pledges that the funds are on deposit and guaranteed for the performance of
the Improvement Agreement. Such certificates of deposit may provide that
interest shall be paid to the depositor. The assignment shall allow the City
to withdraw the principal amount, or any portion thereof, upon declaration of
default by the Board of Public Works without the necessity of any further
consent by the depositor. The Improvement Security shall be on a form
prepared by the City Engineer, shall be a joint and several obligation, and
shall be in an amount estimated by the City Engineer to be reasonably
necessary to complete the construction and installation of all of the
improvements required to be done pursuant to the Improvement Agreement and to
warrant the work against defective work or labor done, or defective materials
furnished in the performance of the work.



 



   The term of the Improvement Security shall begin on the day it is
approved by the City Council and shall continue until the work is accepted by
the City Engineer.



 



   The Improvement Security shall contain the further conditions that in
addition to the face amount, all parties executing the security shall be
firmly bound under a continuing obligation for payment of all reasonable
costs, expenses and fees, including reasonable attorney’s fees incurred by
the City in enforcing the obligation secured thereby; that all parties agree
to any extensions of time within which to construct and install the
improvements; and that all parties further agree to such alterations of or
additions to the work as may be deemed necessary by the City Engineer
provided the cost increase does not exceed 10 percent of the value of the
Improvement Security.



 



   c.   Improvement Warranty Guarantee. As a part of the Improvement
Security there shall be included an amount to be determined by the City
Engineer sufficient for the guarantee and warranty of the work for a period
of one year following the date of acceptance of the work by the City Engineer
against any defective work or labor done, or defective materials furnished in
the performance of the work.



 



   d.   Labor and Material Payment Security. Security shall be
furnished for payment of labor and materials furnished in the construction
and installation of the improvements. The security shall be furnished in one
of the forms described in Subdivision 2b, hereof, and shall be in an amount
equal to not less than 50 percent of the Improvement Security as estimated by
the City Engineer. The security shall inure to the benefit of all persons,
and entities furnishing services, supplies or equipment for the improvements
as referenced in Sections 3110, 3111 and 3112 of the California Civil Code.
All claims under this labor and materials payment security must be filed with
the City Clerk on or before the expiration of 90 days after the completion of
the improvements.



 



   e.   Existing Security. Notwithstanding the foregoing requirements,
if the subdivider/owner already has on file with the City Engineer an
Improvement Security in one of the forms described in Subdivision 2b, hereof,
posted pursuant to Section 62.111 of this Code which guarantees completion of
all of the improvements designated in the Improvement Agreement and in an
amount at least equal to the amount determined by the City Engineer to be
necessary to complete all of the improvements, no additional Improvement
Security shall be required; however, improvement warranty guarantee and labor
and material security may be required.



 



   3.   Extension of Time. If it appears that the improvements cannot
be completed by the date specified in the Improvement Agreement, written
application may be made to the City Engineer for an extension of the
completion date. One extension of time shall be granted to a time at which
the City Engineer determines the work of improvement should reasonably be
completed. Further extensions of time may be granted at the discretion of the
City Engineer. If the subdivider disagrees with the determination of the City
Engineer such decision may be appealed to the Board of Public Works. Any
extension may be considered upon agreement by the surety and principal to:



 



   a.   Begin or resume construction of the improvements on a schedule
to be specified by the City Engineer, and/or



 



   b.   Update the estimated cost of construction and installation of
the improvements with an adjustment in the Improvement Security commensurate
with the updated estimates, and/or



 



   c.   To the extent possible, construct and install the required
improvements in accordance with the standards and specifications of the Board
of Public Works in effect at the time such extension of time is granted;
and/or



 



   d.   Comply with other conditions as may be deemed necessary by the
City Engineer to insure diligent prosecution of the work.



 



   4.   Reduction of Improvement Security. When a portion of the
improvements have been completed to the satisfaction of the City Engineer,
the City Engineer may consent to a reduction in the amount of the Improvement
Security upon written request from the subdivider/owner. The City Engineer
may consent to two reductions provided the original security for the
improvements exceeds $200,000 and the work completed is identifiable, capable
of being maintained by the City, and accepted by the City Engineer. In
extreme hardship circumstances the City Engineer may consent to one reduction
without regard to the preceding provisions. The remaining security shall be
adequate to cover the estimated cost of completing the remaining
improvements, the improvement warranty guarantee, and reasonable expenses and
fees for enforcement of the terms of the Improvement Agreement. If a cash
deposit or negotiable security is on deposit, that portion of the cash or
negotiable security not required as a guarantee for the remaining
improvements, improvement warranty guarantee and reasonable expenses and fees
for enforcement of the terms of the Improvement Agreement, shall be returned
to the depositor. If a certificate of deposit is on file, reduction in the
Improvement Security will be accomplished by the City Engineer issuing a
notice of reduction to the depositor and financial institution. If a surety
bond is on file, reduction in the Improvement Security will be accomplished
by the execution of a rider to the improvement surety bond by the principal
and surety thereon and shall be effective upon approval by the City Engineer
and the City Attorney.



 



   5.   Release of Improvement Security. When all of the requirements
of the Improvement Agreement and the Improvement Security have been completed
to the satisfaction of the City Engineer and the improvement warranty
guarantee has expired, the City Engineer shall issue a Certificate of
Acceptance and Termination of Improvement Warranty Bond to the
subdivider/owner and a copy thereof shall be sent to the surety company if a
surety bond is on file. However, if the improvement warranty guarantee has
not expired, the City Engineer may issue a Certificate of Acceptance, which
exonerates the portion of the Improvement Security guaranteeing completion of
the construction and installation of the improvements, but not the
improvement warranty guarantee. Said warranty guarantee shall thereafter be
released in total by the City Engineer on or after one year from the date of
the completion notice from the Bureau of Engineering, provided no claims
against said guarantee have been made by the City.



 



   6.   Release of Labor and Material Payment Security. On or after
ninety (90) days from the date of completion notices from both the Bureau of
Contract Administration and the Bureau of Engineering, security posted under
Subdivision 2d hereof to secure payment for labor and materials may be
released by the City Engineer in whole if no claims are filed or reduced to
an amount equal to one–hundred and fifty (150) percent of those claims
filed with the City Clerk. If a cash, negotiable security, or certificate of
deposit payment security is on file, the City Engineer shall:



 



   a.   Release the cash, negotiable security or certificate of deposit
payment bond in total, if no claims have been filed; or



 



   b.   Reduce the cash or negotiable security or certificate of
deposit payment bond to an amount equal to one–hundred and fifty (150)
percent total amount of the claims filed with the City Clerk.



 



   H.   Enforcement.  If the subdivider/owner neglects, refuses or
fails to construct the improvements with such diligence as to insure
completion within the time specified, or within such extensions of said time
as may have been granted by the City Engineer or the Board of Public Works or
if the subdivider/owner neglects, refuses or fails to perform satisfactorily
any act required under the Improvement Agreement, the Board of Public Works
may declare the Improvement Agreement in default, and shall take whatever
actions are necessary to enforce the terms and conditions of the Improvement
Security. The Board is hereby empowered to order all or any part of the work
to be done either by City forces or by separate contract, and the City shall
be entitled to reimbursement for all costs and expenses as a result of such
construction. If the Improvement Security is a cash deposit, negotiable
security or certificate of deposit the Board is empowered to deduct
therefrom, on behalf of the City, an amount sufficient to reimburse and to
indemnity the City for any and all damages, costs and expenses sustained or
incurred by the City in enforcing the terms and conditions of the Improvement
Agreement.



 



 



SEC. 17.09.  PRIVATE STREETS.



 



   A.   Whenever a private street is proposed to be used or included in
a subdivision, the private street shall conform in all respects with all the
requirements contained and set forth in Article 8 of this chapter. A Private
Street Map need not be filed with the Advisory Agency in addition to the maps
required by the provisions of this article, however, provided that the maps
filed in conformance with the provisions of this article show such street and
contain the information pertaining thereto which is required to be provided
in such Private Street Maps.



 



   B.   If a private street located within the proposed subdivision has
been approved in accordance with the then applicable regulations prior to
filing the Tentative Map of the subdivision, such street shall be deemed to
comply with the requirements of this section and Article 8 of this chapter
and no further approval thereof shall be required. (Amended by Ord. No.
126,486, Eff. 3/1/64.)



 



 



SEC. 17.10.  REVERSION TO ACREAGE.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 168,447, Eff. 1/31/93.)



 



   A.   Proceedings for reversion to acreage of subdivided real
property may be initiated by the City Council on its own motion or by
petition of all of the owners of record of the real property within the
subdivision.



 



   1.   The petition shall take the form of a tentative tract map
application to the Department of City Planning in a form prescribed by the
Department.  Upon the title sheet of each map filed for the purpose of
reverting subdivided land to acreage, the subtitle shall consist of the words
“A reversion to acreage of....”.  Any map so submitted shall be
accompanied by evidence of title and non-use or lack of necessity of any
streets or easements which are to be vacated or abandoned.  Any streets or
easements to be left in effect after the reversion shall be adequately
delineated on the map.



 



   2.   Notice shall be given and a public hearing shall be held in
accordance with the procedures set forth in Section 17.06 of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code.



 



   3.   A tentative tract map shall be filed under the provisions of
this section for the purposes of reverting to acreage land previously
subdivided.  A final parcel map may be recorded in lieu of a final tract
map, if the property involved originally consisted of four or fewer parcels
or condominium units or if the project meets the exception criteria of
Section 66426 of the State Government Code and Section 17.50 C of the Los
Angeles Municipal Code.  Except as provided in Government Code Section 66445
(e), a certificate shall appear signed and acknowledged by all parties having
any record title interest in the land being reverted, consenting to the
preparation and filing of the parcel map.



 



   4.   Maps recorded solely for the purpose of combining portions of
vacated streets with adjoining lots shall be treated in procedure as
Reversion to Acreage Maps.



 



   B.   Subdivided real property may be reverted to acreage only if the
City Council finds that:



 



   1.   Dedications or offers of dedication to be vacated or abandoned
by the reversion to acreage are unnecessary for present or prospective public
purposes; and



 



   2.   Either:



 



   (a)   All owners of an interest in the property within the
subdivision have consented to reversion; or



 



   (b)   None of the improvements required to be made have been within
two years from the date the final or parcel map was filed for record, or
within the time allowed by agreement with the City Engineer for completion of
the improvements, whichever is the later; or



 



   (c)   No lots shown on the final or parcel map have been sold within
five years from the date the map was filed for record.



 



   C.   As conditions of reversion the City Council shall require:



 



   1.   Dedications or offers of dedications necessary following
reversion;



 



   2.   Retention of all previously paid fees necessary to accomplish
the purposes of this article;



 



   3.   Retention of any portion of required improvement security or
deposits if necessary to accomplish the purposes of this article.



 



   D.   When a reversion is effective, all fees and deposits shall be
returned and all improvement security released, except those retained
pursuant to Subdivisions 2 and 3 of Subsection C above.



 



   E.   After approval of the reversion by the City Council, the final
map or parcel map shall be delivered to the county recorder.  The filing of
the final tract map or parcel map shall constitute legal reversion to acreage
of the land affected thereby and shall also constitute abandonment of all
streets and easements not shown on the map.



 



 



SEC. 17.10.1.  MERGER AND RESUBDIVISION.



   (Added by Ord. No. 168,447, Eff. 1/31/93.)



 



   Subdivided lands may be merged and resubdivided without reverting to
acreage by complying with all the applicable requirements for the subdivision
of land as provided by this article.  The filing of the final map or parcel
map shall constitute legal merging of the separate parcels into one parcel
and the resubdivision of the parcel.  Any unused fees or deposits previously
made pursuant to this article pertaining to the property shall be credited
pro rata towards any requirements which are applicable at the time of
resubdivision.  Any streets or easements to be left in effect after the
resubdivision shall be adequately delineated on the map.  After approval of
the merger and resubdivision by the City Council, the map shall be delivered
to the County Recorder.  The filing of the map shall constitute legal merger
and resubdivision of the land affected thereby and shall also constitute
abandonment of all streets and easements not shown on the map.



 



 



SEC. 17.10.5.  MAPS – LOCAL DRAINAGE DISTRICTS – EXEMPTION FROM FEES.



   (Added by Ord. No. 148,331, Eff. 6/26/76. )



 



   (a)   Payment of fees shall be required in the sums fixed by
ordinance for local drainage districts involved and as a condition to
approval of final subdivision maps, parcel maps and private street maps,
except as provided in Subsection (b) below, whenever the City Council
determined such need pursuant to former Section 11543.5 of the Business and
Professions Code of the State of California or finds and determines such need
pursuant to Section 66483 of the Government Code of the State of California,
effective March 1, 1975 for a local drainage district, and finds:



 



   (1)   that subdivision and development of property requires or will
require construction of facilities described in the local drainage plan, and



 



   (2)   that the fees are fairly apportioned within the area on the
basis of benefits conferred on the property proposed for subdivision or on
the need for facilities created by the proposed subdivision and development
of other property within such area.



 



   (b)   In the event the owner filing the map petitions the City
Council for an exemption from payment of fees required by ordinances to be
paid to defray actual or estimated costs of constructing planned drainage
facilities for removal of surface and storm waters from local or neighborhood
drainage areas, and the City Council finds and determines that the final
subdivision map, or the parcel map, or the private street map filed for
approval is not filed for subdivision or development purposes, the City
Council may thereupon exempt that map from payment of said fees or other
consideration notwithstanding provisions of Section 17.05Q, 17.53G, or
18.05J-4 of this chapter or requirements of Subdivision (a) above or of said
ordinance for such payment.



 



   (1)   For purposes of this subsection the term “subdivision” and
the term “development” shall neither include nor apply to final
subdivision maps, parcel maps or private street maps that are filed within
the City:



 



   (a)   in connection with a sale of land which is to be further
divided by the filing of either a subdivision map, parcel map or private
street map prior to development occurring,



 



   (b)   solely for the purposes of reversion to acreage, or to combine
portions of vacated streets with adjoining lots or parcels, or to make
boundary line adjustments without creating any new lots or parcels, or to
effect technical corrections on existing recorded maps in order to cause
those maps to conform to actual fact, clarify the record, and cause them to
read correctly, provided however that approval or recordation of such new
maps does not or will not otherwise change or amend any existing recorded map
or any legend thereon.



 



 



SEC. 17.11.  MODIFICATIONS.



 



   A.   (Amended by Ord. No. 131,820, Eff. Eff. 3/28/66.) The Advisory
Agency may grant modifications to any of the provisions of this article on
its own initiative or upon recommendation of any member of the Subdivision
Committee whenever the property to be divided is of such size or shape, is
subject to such title limitations of record, is affected by such
topographical location or subsurface or topographical conditions, is to be
devoted to such use, is subject to such regulation by the provisions of
Article 1 of this chapter that it is impractical to conform to the strict
application of the requirements of this article.



 



   B.   Such modification may be made by the Advisory Agency prior to
its action on the Tentative Map without specific or written application
therefor by the subdivider. After the Tentative Map has been acted upon by
the Advisory Agency, however, no such modification may be granted by the
Advisory Agency except upon compliance with the following requirements:



 



   1.   A request for modification shall be submitted by the subdivider
in writing, setting forth the facts relied upon.



 



   2.   Such request shall clearly indicate that the modification is
reasonably necessary and is in conformity with the spirit and intent of this
article and the Subdivision Map Act.



 



   C.   The actions of the Advisory Agency on a request for a
modification after approval of the Tentative Map may be appealed in the same
manner and subject to the same restrictions which apply to appeals from the
action of the Advisory Agency on Tentative Maps. However, in no event shall
such appeals be construed as extending the time limit within which to record
a Final Map.



 



 



SEC. 17.12.  PARK AND RECREATION SITE ACQUISITION AND DEVELOPMENT PROVISIONS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 184,505, Eff. 1/11/17.)



 



   No final subdivision map shall be approved, nor shall it be recorded,
unless land within the subdivision has been dedicated to the City of Los
Angeles for park or recreational purposes or the park fee has been paid
pursuant to Section 12.33 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.



 



 



SEC. 17.13.  SUBDIVISION REQUIRING IMPORT OR EXPORT OF EARTH.



   (Added by Ord. No. 142,877, Eff. 2/24/72.)



 



   Upon the filing of a Tentative Map which requires for its
implementation the import and/or export of more than 1,000 cubic yards of
earth materials, the Advisory Agency shall request that the Superintendent of
Building and the General Manager of the Department of Transportation
investigate the circumstances of the proposed import or export of earth
materials and the effect thereof upon the public health, safety, and welfare.
The Advisory Agency shall request the City Engineer to determine the effect
of any import and export on the structural integrity of the public streets
and to determine the effect on public safety relative to street alignment,
width, and grade. (Amended by Ord. No. 152,425, Eff. 6/29/79.)



 



   In taking action on such Tentative Map, the Advisory Agency shall
impose conditions of approval to mitigate any detrimental effects of the
hauling operations necessary to import or export earth, including but not
limited to: designating routes to be followed by trucks hauling earth
materials; limiting truck weight, length and/or speed; and other conditions
of approval as may be necessary to insure repair of damages to public streets
along the hauling route that may reasonably be expected to be caused by
hauling operations. Such additional conditions may include a condition that
the developer shall file a bond for the benefit of the City. Any such bond
shall be in a form approved by the City Attorney, executed by the developer
and a corporate surety authorized to do business in the State in an amount
sufficient to cover the repair of any damage to the public streets reasonably
expected to be caused by the hauling operations. The conditions of the bond
shall guarantee to indemnify the City for all costs and expense in repairing
the damaged streets or other public facilities. In lieu of a surety bond, the
developer may file a cash bond with the Department upon the same terms and
conditions and in an amount equal to that which would be required in the
surety bond. The deposit submitted may be in the form of cash or negotiable
United States securities. The term of such bond shall begin on the date of
filing and shall remain in effect until the completion of the hauling
operations and subsequent inspection of the affected public streets by the
Department of Public Works. The Advisory Agency may disapprove the Tentative
Map as provided in Section 17.06–A,2(a).



 



 



SEC. 17.14.  MODIFICATION OF RECORDED FINAL MAPS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 157,533, Eff. 5/12/83.)



 



   A.   In addition to amendments to final maps authorized by
Government Code Section 66469, after a final map is filed with the Office of
the County Recorder, such recorded map, including the conditions of approval
thereof, may be modified pursuant to the provisions of this Section. The
provisions of this Section are not applicable to certificates of correction
or amending maps filed pursuant to Government Code Section 66469.



 



   B.   Applications for certificates of correction or amending maps
filed pursuant to this section may be filed with the Advisory Agency.  The
filing and processing of such applications, including appeals, shall conform
to the provisions of Section 17.11 of this Code relating to the filing and
processing of modifications of tentative maps.  In addition to such
requirements, a public hearing shall be held by the Advisory Agency and 10
days notice thereof shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation
and mailed to the applicant and to the owners of all property located within
500 feet of the subdivision (as shown on records of the City Engineer and on
the records of the County Assessor for property located outside of the City
of Los Angeles).  Written notice shall also be mailed to residential,
commercial and industrial occupants of all property, within 500 feet of the
exterior boundaries of the property involved.  This requirement can be met
by mailing such notice to "occupant".  This notice shall also conform to the
requirements of Government Code Section 66451.3.  (Amended by Ord. No.
181,595, Eff. 4/10/11.)



 



   Notice of the public hearing shall be posted, by the applicant, in a
conspicuous place on the property involved at least ten days prior to the
date of the public hearing. (Added by Ord. No. 164,845, Eff. 6/17/89.)



 



   C.   Consideration of and action on such applications shall be
limited to the proposed modifications.



 



   D.   No such modification or amending map may be approved unless the
Advisory Agency, or the City Planning Commission or City Council on appeal
finds each of the following:



 



   1.   That there are changes in circumstances which make any or all
of the conditions of such map no longer appropriate or necessary;



 



   2.   That the modifications do not impose any additional burden on
the present fee owner of the property;



 



   3.   That the modifications do not alter any right, title or
interest in the real property reflected on the recorded map;



 



   4.   That the map and conditions as modified conform to the
provisions of Government Code Section 66474 and of this Code;



 



   5.   That the decision–maker has given consideration, among other
factors, to the effects of the modifications on surrounding properties.



 



   E.   (Added by Ord. No. 163,641, Eff. 7/1/88.) Modifications and
amending maps shall be governed by the following limitations.



 



   1.   No modifications involving increases in density shall be
allowed which would change the density of a subdivision as approved on appeal
by the City Planning Commission or the City Council, where such density was
the subject of the appeal to the City Planning Commission or the City Council.



 



   2.   No condition may be modified if it was imposed as a mitigating
measure identified in a mitigated or conditional negative declaration or in
an Environmental Impact Report.



 



   3.   Modifications involving increases in density over that
originally approved by the Advisory Agency in approving the tentative map
shall be limited as follows:



 



   (a)   For subdivision of fewer than 10 lots or dwelling units, any
density increase shall be limited to one lot or dwelling unit; and



 



   (b)   For subdivisions containing 10 or more lot or dwelling units,
any increase shall be limited to not more than 10 percent of that originally
approved.



 



   4.   Modifications involving either increase in the height of
structures, or in the elevation of building pads where the elevation of such
pads has been specified by the Advisory Agency, shall be limited as follows:



 



   (a)   an increase in the height of structures of not more than 10
percent above the approved height of such structures; or



 



   (b)   an increase in the elevation of building pads of not more than
5 feet above the approved elevation of such pads.



 



   Any such increase in height or elevation shall not obstruct the view
from surrounding properties. A greater increase in the elevation of building
pads may be approved if such increase has been determined to be necessary for
health and safety reasons by the Department of Building an Safety.



 



   5.   No modifications shall be permitted which violate the intent of
any of the original conditions of the tract map approval as that intent is
expressed in the findings or otherwise by the decision maker.



 



   F.   An amending map or certificate of correction shall be recorded
with the Office of the County Recorder in the manner specified in Government
Code Section 66472. If the modification of one or more conditions does not
require an amending map or certificate of correction, the approval of the
modification shall be evidenced in a letter mailed to the subdivider and made
a part of the subject tract file. (Former Subsection. E Redesignated F by
Ord. No. 163,641, Eff. 7/1/88.)



 



 



SEC. 17.15.  VESTING TENTATIVE MAPS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 163,300, Eff. 3/27/88.)



 



   A.   Application. Whenever a provision ofthe Subdivision Map Act, as
implemented and supplementedby this article, requires the filing of a
tentative map, a vesting tentative map may instead be filed, in accordance
with the provisions hereof. If a subdivider does not seek the rights
conferred by this Section, the filing of a vesting tentative map shall not be
a prerequisite to any approval for any proposed subdivision, permit for
construction or work preparatory to construction.  (Amended by Ord. No.
163,944, Eff. 10/8/88.)



 



   B.   Procedures.



 



   1.   Filing and Processing.



 



   (a)   A vesting tentative map shall be filed on the same form and
have the same contents, accompanying data and reports and shall be processed
in the same manner as set forth in this article for a tentative map except as
hereinafter provided. At the time a vesting tentative map is filed, it shall
have printed conspicuously on its face the words “Vesting Tentative Map”.
If it is known at the time of filing that an additional approval (such as a
variance or coastal development permit) is necessary, the application for
such additional approval shall be filed prior to or simultaneously with the
vesting tentative map.



 



   (b)   At the time a vesting tentative map is filed, a subdivider
shall provide all information required in connection with the filing of a
tentative map by this Code, including the information required by Section
17.06 B and C. Where the proposed subdivision is in a designated Hillside
area, the Advisory Agency shall require the filing of a proposed grading plan
pursuant to Section 17.05 L and may not waive the requirement to file
preliminary soils report pursuant to Section 17.05U.  A subdivider shall
also indicate whether the proposed subdivision is in the vicinity of the
Mulholland Scenic Parkway and the dedication of land for such purposes may be
necessary. In addition, if design review of the proposed subdivision is
require by the applicable community or district plan or by a specific plan,
the subdivider shall provide the information necessary for such review. The
plan of building envelope shall be submitted, showing the height, size,
number of units and approximate location of buildings, driveways and any
proposed exterior garden walls.



 



   2.   Expiration.  The approval or conditional approval of a vesting
tentative map shall expire at the end of the same time period, and shall be
subject to the same extensions established by Section 17.07 of this Code for
the expiration an extension of the approval or conditional approval of a
tentative map.



 



   C.   Development Rights.



 



   1.   The approval or conditional approval of a vesting tentative map
shall confer a vested right to proceed with development in substantial
compliance with the ordinances, policies and standards in effect on the date
the application is deemed complete, and with the conditions of approval
imposed and specifically enumerated by the Advisory Agency, including the
submittal of a detailed grading plan under an approved grading permit prior
to recordation of the final map.  Such rights shall not include exemptions
from subsequent changes in the Building and Safety and Fire regulations
contained in Chapters V and IX of the Los Angeles Municipal Code and policies
and standards relating thereto



 



   2.   Notwithstanding Subsection C 1 of this section, a permit,
approval, extension or entitlement may be conditioned or denied if the
Advisory Agency, or the City Planning Commission or the City Council on
appeal determines:



 



   (a)   A failure to do so would place the occupants of the
subdivision or the immediate community, or both, in a condition dangerous to
their health or safety, or both; or (Amended by Ord. No. 163,944,Eff.
10/8/88.)



 



   (b)   The condition or denial is required in order to comply with
state or federal law.



 



   3.   The rights conferred by a map approved or conditionally
approved pursuant to this section shall expire if a final map is not recorded
prior to the expiration of the vesting tentative map as provided in
Subsection B 2 of this section. If the final map is recorded, the rights
conferred by this section shall be for the following time periods:



 



   (a)   An initial time period of one year beyond the recording of the
final map. Where several final maps are recorded on various phases of a
project covered by a single vesting tentative map, this initial time period
shall begin for each phase when the final map for the phase is recorded



 



   (b)   The initial time period set forth in Section C 3 (a) above
shall be automatically extended by any time used thereafter by the City for
processing a complete application for a grading permit or for design or
architectural review, if such time exceeds 30 days, from the date a complete
application for such permit or review is filed.



 



   (c)   A subdivider may apply to the Advisory Agency for a one-year
extension at any time before expiration of the initial time period set forth
in Paragraph (a) of this subdivision. Denial of the time extension may be
appealed to the City Council within 15 days by the subdivider.



 



   (d)   If the subdivider submits a complete application for a
building permit during the periods of time specified in Subsections C
3(a)–(c) of this section, the rights conferred by this section shall
continue until the expiration of that permit or any extension of that permit.



 



   4.   (a)   Consistent with Subsection C 1 of this section, an
approved or conditionally approved vesting tentative map shall not limit the
City from imposing reasonable conditions on subsequently required approvals
or permits necessary for the development and authorized by the ordinances,
policies, and standards described in Subsection C 1 of this section



 



   (b)   If the ordinances, policies, or standards described in this
Subsection C 1 of this section are changed subsequent to the approval or
conditional approval of a vesting tentative map, the subdivider, or his or
her assignee, at any time prior to the expiration of the vesting tentative
map, may apply for an amendment to the vesting tentative map to secure a
vested right to proceed with the changed ordinances, policies, or standards.
An application shall clearly specify the changed ordinances, policies, or
standards for which the amendment is sought. In addition, such application
shall conform to the provisions relating to modifications of tentative maps
set forth in Section 17.11 of this Code.



 



   D.   Development Inconsistent With Zoning – Conditional Approval.



 



   1.   Whenever a subdivider files a vesting tentative map for a
subdivision whose intended development is inconsistent with the zoning
ordinance in existence at that time, that inconsistency shall be noted on the
map. The City may deny such a vesting tentative map or approve it conditioned
on the subdivider, or his or her designee, obtaining the necessary change in
the zoning ordinance to eliminate the inconsistency. If the change in the
zoning ordinance is obtained, the approved or conditionally approved vesting
tentative map shall confer the vested right to proceed with the development,
notwithstanding Subsection C 1 of this section, in substantial compliance
with the change in the zoning ordinance and the map, as approved,



 



   2.   The rights conferred by this subsection shall be for the time
periods set forth in Subsections C 3(a) - (d) of this section.



 



 



SEC. 17.50.  PARCEL MAPS – GENERAL PROVISIONS.



 



   A.   Purpose. The following parcel map regulations are intended to
assure compliance with the Subdivision Map Act, the Comprehensive Zoning Plan
of the City of Los Angeles as set forth in Article 2 of this chapter, and the
various elements of the City’s General Plan, to assure lots of acceptable
design and of a size compatible with the size of existing lots in the
immediate neighborhood; to preserve property values; to assure compliance
with the Design Standards for Streets and Alleys as specified in Section
17.05 of this Code where street or alley dedication and/or improvement are
required; and to prevent interference with the opening or extension of
streets necessary for emergency vehicle access, proper traffic circulation
and the future development of adjacent properties; and to provide that the
dividing of land in the hillside areas be done in a manner which will assure
that the separate parcels can be safely graded and developed as building
sites. (Amended by Ord. No. 143,254, Eff. 5/14/72.)



 



   B.   Scope.



 



   1.   No land shall be separated in ownership or otherwise divided
into two, three, or four parcels or condominiums, and no such divided parcel
or condominium shall be separately maintained unless the division conforms to
that shown on a parcel map which has been approved by the Advisory Agency and
recorded in the office of the county recorder.  (Amended by Ord. No.
147,224*, Eff. 6/27/75.)



 



   * The provisions of this ordinance shall become operative 90 days after
the publication date of such ordinance.



 



   2.   No building permit shall be issued, and no building or
structure shall be constructed, altered or maintained on any land which has
been separated in ownership or otherwise divided into two, three or four
parcels in violation of the provisions of this article, and until and unless
a Parcel Map has been recorded in the office of the county recorder All
conditions of approval shall be completed prior to filing the Parcel Map.



 



   3.   These regulations shall not apply to the leasing of apartments,
offices, stores or similar space within an apartment building, industrial
building, commercial building or mobilehome park, nor to mineral, oil or gas
leases, nor shall they apply to the following divisions of land, except as
may be required by Subsection C. hereof.  (Amended by Ord. No. 161,716, Eff.
12/6/86.)



 



   (a)   Those made in compliance with the Subdivision Map Act and the
subdivision regulations contained in this article.



 



   (b)   Those divisions of land made solely because of the sale,
acquisition, lease or combining of lands by governmental agencies, including
City of Los Angeles and any department thereof, or any further division of
such lands by a lessee of such governmental agency.



 



   (c)   (Amended by Ord. No. 176,321, Eff. 1/15/05.)  Those where the
Advisory Agency or the Appeal Board determines that all the following
conditions exist:



 



   (1)   A lot line adjustment is made between four or fewer existing
adjoining lots or parcels and the land taken from one lot or parcel is added
to an adjoining lot or parcel;



 



   (2)   The resulting number of lots or parcels remains the same or is
decreased;



 



   (3)   The parcels or lots resulting from the lot line adjustment
will conform to the local general plan, any applicable coastal plan, and
zoning and building ordinances.



 



   (d)   Those involving land dedicated for cemetery purposes under the
applicable provisions contained in the Health and Safety Code of the State of
California.



 



   C.   Parcel Maps – Divisions of Land of Five or More Parcels not
Subdivisions.



 



   1.   (Amended by Ord. No. 146,985, Eff. 4/11/75.) No parcel of land
shall be separated in ownership or otherwise divided into five or more
parcels, where such a division is not a subdivision by reason of the
exceptions contained in Subdivisions (a), (b), (c) and (d) of Section 66426
of the Subdivision Map Act, and no such divided parcel shall be separately
maintained unless a Tentative Map of such division has been approved by the
Advisory Agency and a Parcel Map prepared in conformity therewith and has
been recorded in the office of the county recorder.



 



   2.   Where the Advisory Agency determines that a Tentative Map filed
for the division of land described in Subdivision (b) and (c) of Section
66426 of the Subdivision Map Act complies with all the requirements of this
article, but that dedication for street opening or widening or easements is
necessary, it shall require that an offer to dedicate such additional land as
is necessary therefor to be made in a manner provided by Section 17.53 C.1.
of this Code. (Amended by Ord. No. 146,985, Eff. 4/11/75.)



 



   3.   Where the Advisory Agency determines that a Tentative Map filed
for the division of land described in Subdivision (c) of Section 66426 of the
Subdivision Map Act complies with all of the requirements of this Article,
but that improvement of public or private streets, highways, ways or
easements is necessary for local traffic, drainage or sanitary needs, such
improvements shall be constructed, or their construction and completion
guaranteed in the manner provided by Section 17.08 of this Code, as a
condition of approval of the Tentative Map. (Amended by Ord. No. 146,985,
Eff. 4/11/75.)



 



   4.   No building permit shall be issued, and no building or
structure shall be constructed, altered or maintained on any land which has
been separated in ownership or otherwise divided into five or more parcels,
where a final map is not required for such a division by reason of the
exceptions contained in Subdivision (a), (b), (c) and (d) of Section 66426 of
the Subdivision Map Act, in violation of the provisions of this article. All
conditions of approval shall be completed prior to submitting the parcel map
to the City Engineer. (Amended by Ord. No. 146,985, Eff. 4/11/75.)



 



   D.   Waiver of Parcel Maps. (Amended by Ord. No. 159,630, Eff.
2/25/85.)



 



   1.   Findings. The Advisory Agency may waive Parcel Maps required by
this section so long as it finds that the proposed division of land complies
with such requirements as may have been established by the Subdivision Map
Act (Government Code Sections 66410 et seq. ) or this article as to area,
improvement and design, floodwater drainage control, appropriate improved
public roads, sanitary disposal facilities, water supply availability,
environmental protection, and other requirements of the Subdivision Map Act
or this article, provided that in waiving such a Parcel Map the Advisory
Agency may receive a preliminary Parcel Map.



 



   2.   Procedure. A request for a waiver of a Parcel Map shall be
submitted by the subdivider in a form acceptable to the Advisory Agency.
Notice of the action of the Advisory Agency upon such a request shall be
given to the subdivider and to all persons to whom notification of the
preliminary Parcel Map is required by law. The Advisory Agency action on a
request for a waiver of a Parcel Map may be appealed in accordance with the
provisions of Section 17.54 of this Code. Provided that in overruling an
Advisory Agency denial of such a request for a waiver of a Parcel Map, the
Appeal Board shall make the findings required by Subdivision 1. of this
subsection. (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)



 



   E.   Slope Density. (Added by Ord. No. 162,144, Eff. 5/11/87.)  In
Hillside Areas, as defined in Chapter 1 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code,
which are designated in the Minimum Density housing category by the
applicable element of the General Plan adopted by the City Council, the
dwelling unit density shall not exceed that allowed by the following
formula:  (Paragraph and following formula Amended by Ord. No. 179,035, Eff.
9/17/07.)



 









 




   Where:      D =   the maximum number of dwelling units per
gross acre allowable, and










         S =   the average natural slope of the land in percent.




 



   Where the total allowable number of dwelling units per parcel map or
tentative tract map calculated under the above formulas results in a number
other than a whole number, it shall be rounded to the nearest whole number as
follows: where the fractional portion of the total allowable number of
dwelling units equals .5 or more, the total number of allowable dwelling
units shall be rounded to the next larger whole number; where the fractional
portion of the total allowable number of dwelling units equals less than .5,
the total number of allowable dwelling units shall be rounded to the next
smaller whole number



 



   In no case shall the permitted density be less than 0.05 dwelling units
per gross acre.  Where the total allowable number of dwelling units per
parcel map calculated under the above formula results in a number less than
one, it shall be rounded up to allow one dwelling unit per parcel map. 
Where previous grading on a site makes it difficult to determine average
natural slope using the above formula, the Director of Planning shall
determine the average natural slope in a manner to carry out the purpose and
intent of this subsection.  (Amended by Ord. No. 179,035, Eff. 9/17/07.)



 



   F.   Public Notice and Hearing. (Added by Ord. No. 176,321, Eff.
1/15/05.)  Upon receipt of a complete application, the Advisory Agency shall
set the matter for public hearing at which evidence shall be taken.  The
Advisory Agency shall give notice consistent with the provisions of Section
17.06 A.1. of the LAMC.



 



   Waiver.  The Advisory Agency may waive the public hearing required in
this subsection if the applicant submits with the application the written
approval of the owners of all properties abutting, across the street or alley
from, and/or having a common corner with the parcel map.  A copy of the
determination shall be mailed to the applicant, and to the owners of all
properties abutting, across the street or alley from, or having a common
corner with the subject property and/or to all persons who have filed written
requests for notice with the Advisory Agency.



 



 



SEC. 17.51.  FILING OF PRELIMINARY PARCEL MAPS.



 



   A.   FORMS AND CONTENTS. (Amended by Ord. No. 133,753, Eff.
2/12/67.) Each person applying for approval of a parcel map required by
reason of Section 17.50 B. of this Code shall submit a reproducible
preliminary Parcel Map to the City Planning Department showing the land to be
divided and its proposed division. The map may be prepared by the applicant,
except that the Advisory Agency may require the map to be prepared by a
licensed land surveyor or registered civil engineer and that it be based upon
a field survey when it determines that such is necessary to provide the
information required by this section. The map shall be made on one or more
sheets of tracing paper or cloth at least 8 1/2 inches by 11 inches but shall
not exceed 18 × 26 inches. It shall be legibly drawn using a decimal or an
engineer’s scale and shall clearly show the following information:



 



   1.   The dimensions and record boundaries of the total parcel
together with a legal description of the total parcel attached to the map.



 



   2.   The dimensions and boundaries of each proposed parcel.



 



   3.   The names, addresses and telephone number of the property
owners, the person filing the map, and the registered civil engineer or
licensed land surveyor, if any, who prepared the map.



 



   4.   The abutting streets and alleys and existing surface
improvements and proposed dedications and improvements.



 



   5.   The location of other existing public easements and/or private
street easements. (Amended by Ord. No. 176,321, Eff. 1/15/05.)



 



   6.   In Hillside Areas, the existing contours of the land at
intervals of not more than five feet. (Amended by Ord. No. 143,254, Eff.
5/14/72.)



 



   7.   The accurate location of any structures on the property (Added
by Ord. No. 143,254, Eff. 5/14/72.)



 



   8.   Names or designations for all proposed streets. (Added by Ord.
No. 158,691, Eff. 3/12/84.)



 



   9.   Such other information as the Advisory Agency determines is
necessary to properly consider the proposed division. (Redesignated 9, Ord.
No. 158,691, Eff. 3/12/84.)



 



   B.   Incomplete Map. If at  any time during the processing of the
map it is discovered that the map has been improperly prepared or required
pertinent information has not been submitted, the applicant shall be promptly
notified in writing by mail of the defect and of further information or
correction required The time limits specified hereinafter shall not begin
until the omitted or inaccurate information is furnished in a proper manner.
(Amended by Ord. No. 130,871, Eff. 9/20/65 )



 



   C.   Additional Reports. (Added by Ord. No. 143,254, Eff. 5/14/72.)
In addition to the preliminary Parcel Map, and when determined by the
Superintendent of Building or the City Engineer to be necessary, the
following reports shall be submitted to the City Planning Department by the
applicant when the property is located in a Hillside Area, as defined in
Article 1 of Chapter 9 of this Code



 



   1.   A geologic report prepared by an engineering geologist, as
defined in Article 1 of Chapter 9 of this Code, setting forth all relevant
geologic data pertaining to the proposed separate parcels and including
separately stated conclusions listing any potential hazards to public health,
safety or welfare which may exist on the proposed parcels or which could
result from grading or building upon the proposed separate parcels



 



   2.   A report prepared by a soils engineer, as defined in Article 1
of Chapter 9 of this Code, setting forth sufficient engineering data to
explain the proposed solutions to:



 



   (a)   Any potential geologic hazards disclosed by the geologic
report; and



 



   (b)   Any potential geologic hazards that could be created by the
proposed grading.



 



   D.   Protected Tree Reports for Parcel Maps.  No application for a
preliminary parcel map approval for a parcel where a protected tree is
located shall be considered complete unless it includes a report pertaining
to preserving the tree.  The report shall be prepared by a tree expert and
shall evaluate the subdivider's proposals for protected tree preservation,
removal, replacement and/or relocation.  In the event the subdivider
proposes any grading, land movement, or other activity within the drip line
of any protected tree referred to in the report, or proposes to relocate or
remove any tree, the report shall also evaluate any mitigation measures
proposed by the subdivider and the anticipated effectiveness in preserving
the tree.  (Amended by Ord. No. 177,404, Eff. 4/23/06.)



 



 



SEC. 17.52.  PARCEL MAP – AUTHORITY OF ADVISORY AGENCY.



 



   A.   Disapproval Of Maps.



 



   1.   No preliminary Parcel Map shall be approved which violates or
would result in a violation of, or fails to comply with, the Subdivision Map
Act or any other applicable law of this City or State. (Amended by Ord. No.
130,871, Eff. 9/20/65.)



 



   2.   In addition the Advisory Agency may disapprove a preliminary
Parcel Map if, after investigation, it determines that said map does not
substantially comply with the various elements of the City’s General Plan,
or does not provide such street or alley dedication or improvements as are
necessary to achieve the purposes of these regulations, or fails to provide
acceptable lot design or lot sizes which closely conform to the size of the
contiguous or nearby lots on the same street, or results in reorientation of
a lot or parcel in such a manner as to be detrimental to adjoining properties
or the surrounding neighborhood. (Amended by Ord. No. 138,800, Eff. 6/23/69.)



 



   3.   Where a Parcel Map involves land for which a General Plan,
including dwelling unit densities, has been adopted by the Council, and said
land is also in an “H” Hillside or Mountainous Area established by
Article 2 of this Chapter, the number of lots or parcels on said map shall be
limited so that the number of dwelling units permitted by the applicable
zoning regulations shall not substantially exceed the dwelling unit densities
shown on said plan. (Amended by Ord. No. 138,800, Eff. 6/23/69.)



 



   4.   Where a Parcel Map includes land upon which either a
combination of parking and commercial zones or a combination of parking and
industrial zones has been established, the Parcel Map shall not be approved
unless each parcel being created substantially conforms to the established
ratio of space for parking to space for commercial use or space for parking
to space for industrial use as such ratio existed immediately prior to the
land division. (Amended by Ord. No. 141,831, Eff. 5/30/71.)



 



   5.   The Advisory Agency shall disapprove a preliminary Parcel Map
when the property is situated in a Hillside Area as defined in Article 1 of
Chapter 9 of this Code and the Department of Building and Safety or the
Bureau of Engineering has submitted a report in writing to the Advisory
Agency recommending disapproval of the preliminary Parcel Map because of any
existing or potential geologic hazards lacking satisfactory engineering
solutions. (Amended by Ord. No. 143,254, Eff. 5/14/72.)



 



   6.   The Advisory Agency may disapprove a preliminary Parcel Map
unless the proposed name of each street thereon has been approved by the City
Engineer. Advisory Agency approval shall be withheld if the City Engineer has
determined that a proposed street name would create confusion, be misleading,
be unduly long or carry connotations offensive to good taste and decency
(Added by Ord No 158,691, Eff. 3/12/84 )



 



   B.   Lots May Be Increased In Size.



 



   1.   Where the Advisory Agency finds it necessary in order to
promote the general welfare, to provide for a more consistent development for
the area, and to preserve property values, it may require that lots or
parcels described in a Parcel Map and located in an RA or R Zone be increased
in size from that proposed so as to more closely conform to the size of
existing contiguous lots or nearby parcels on the same street. However, in no
case may the Advisory Agency require such parcels in the aforementioned zones
other than RA, RE20 and RE40 to contain an area of more than 20,000 square
feet (Amended by Ord. No. 133,753, Eff. 2/12/67)



 



   2.   Where the Advisory Agency finds that a future public easement
will be needed on a portion of such lots or parcels for street or other
public uses, it may require that such lots or parcels be increased in size
from the proposed so as to provide space for such easement; and in addition,
it may impose conditions prohibiting or restricting the erection for
buildings, or structures on that portion needed for such easement. (Amended
by Ord. No. 130,871, Eff. 9/20/65.)



 



   C.   Maps Involving Private Road Easements. Whenever a proposed
division of land involves one or more parcels which are contiguous or
adjacent to a private road easement with the remaining parcel contiguous or
adjacent to a dedicated street, only the Parcel Map need be filed, without
requiring the payment of additional fees or the filing of a Private Street
Map. The Advisory Agency may approve, conditionally approve, or disapprove
the map subject to the applicable provisions of this article or Article 8,
Chapter 1 of this Code. (Amended by Ord. No. 130,871, Eff. 9/20/65.)



 



   D.   Lots In The Very High Fire Hazard Severity Zone.  (Title
Amended by Ord. No. 176,943, Eff. 10/5/05.)



 



   1.   (Amended by Ord. No. 176, 943, Eff. 10/5/05.)  The Advisory
Agency may disapprove a preliminary Parcel Map for land located in the Very
High Fire Hazard Severity Zone, pursuant to Section 57.4908 of the Municipal
Code, because of inadequate fire protection facilities unless:



 



   (a)   The designated area in which buildings are to be erected on
each proposed parcel or lot, as shown on said map, are located not more than
1,000 feet from a fire hydrant, said distance to be measured along a route
providing reasonable access, as determined by the Fire Chief, for the laying
of fire hoses in an emergency, or



 



   (b)   Said Fire Chief reports that adequate fire protection exists,
or is in the process of being provided, for said parcels or lots.



 



   2.   Upon proper application to the City Council, and upon
recommendation of the Chief Engineer of Waterworks of the Department of Water
and Power, the City may provide for contribution toward the cost of
installation of water mains and hydrants necessary to comply with this
subsection where said Chief Engineer determines that the cost of such
installation is greatly in excess of normal charges for providing like
facilities.



 



   E.   Maps Involving Future Streets. In the event that the Advisory
Agency determines that certain streets or alleys in a proposed division of
land must be reserved for future public use, they shall be indicated on the
preliminary Parcel Map and offered for dedication as future streets or future
alleys prior to recording the Parcel Map. The applicant shall furnish the
Bureau of Right of Way and Land an offer of dedication therefor in accordance
with the provisions of Subdivision 1 of Subsection C of Section 17.53 of this
Code. (Amended by Ord. No. 130,871, Eff. 9/20/65.)



 



   F.   (Deleted by Ord. No. 177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.)



 



   G.   Maintenance Of Accessory Structures. (Added by Ord. No.
133,795, Eff. 2/17/67.) Where the Advisory Agency determines that a proposed
Parcel Map complies with all provisions of these Parcel Map Regulations, but
finds that the proposed division of land will result in an accessory building
or structure being on a parcel separated from the main building or a
residential building being on a parcel without the required off-street
parking spaces and, in order to afford the applicant time to properly provide
a main building on the same parcel with the accessory structure or building,
or to remove same, or to provide the required off-street parking spaces with
the residential building, the Advisory Agency may approve the proposed Parcel
Map and the continued use and maintenance of said accessory structures or
buildings separated from the main building for a period of time not to exceed
one year and the residential building without the off-street parking spaces
for a period of time not to exceed 90 days subject to the following
conditions:



 



   1.   That as a prerequisite to the filing of the final Parcel Map
with the City Engineer, the owner or owners of record of the subject property
shall record in the office of the County Recorder of Los Angeles County,
California, a covenant running with the and in which such owner or owners
agree to comply with an the conditions imposed by the Advisory Agency in
approving the Parcel Map.



 



   2.   That upon approval of the proposed Parcel Map, in addition to
the permanent copy placed on file in the City Planning Department, the
Advisory Agency shall furnish a copy of said action to the applicant and to
the Department of Building and Safety.



 



   H.   Lots Involving a Common Slope. Whenever two or more lots are to
be created on a common slope and the City Engineer or Superintendent of
Building determines that condition so dictate, the Advisory Agency may
require as a condition of approval of the preliminary Parcel Map that
appropriate deed covenants on a form approved by the City Attorney be
recorded which provide to each owner of said common slope a joint right on
entry for access of men and equipment, and a joint easement over the slope
area to maintain and repair said common slope. (Added by Ord. No. 143,254,
Eff. 5/14/72.)



 



   I.   When a protected tree exists on a proposed parcel, the
preservation of the tree at its existing location, its relocation for
preservation purposes, or the removal of the tree shall be regulated in the
same manner as that provided under subdivision regulations set forth in this
chapter.  (Amended by Ord. No. 177,404, Eff. 4/23/06.)



 



   J.   Greater Downtown Housing Incentive Area.  In calculating the
allowable floor area of a parcel map proposed to be developed as a
residential (including Apartment Hotel or mixed use) building in the Greater
Downtown Housing Incentive Area, any land required to be dedicated for street
purposes shall be included as part of the lot area of the parcel map. 
(Added by Ord. No. 179,076, Eff. 9/23/07.)



 



 



SEC. 17.53.  APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY PARCEL MAP.



 



   A.   Processing.



 



   1.   (Amended by Ord. No. 143,254, Eff. 5/14/72.) Upon receipt and
acceptance of a properly prepared map, together with sufficient copies for
appropriate City agencies, the Planning Department shall immediately forward
copies to the City Engineer and, if in a Hillside Area, the Superintendent of
Building for a report and recommendation. The City Engineer and the
Superintendent of Building shall make their reports within twenty–one days
after the map is transmitted to them unless a geologic and soils engineering
report is required as specified in Section 17.51-C of this Code, in which
case they shall make their reports within thirty–five days after the
subject geologic and soils report is received. The Advisory Agency shall not
take final action on any preliminary Parcel Map until first having received a
report thereon from the City Engineer and if in a Hillside Area, the
Superintendent of Building, or until the expiration of the applicable period.



 



   2.   A copy of the preliminary Parcel Map shall be forwarded to the
Chief Engineer of the Fire Department for report and recommendation to the
Advisory Agency. The Chief Engineer shall make his report within seven days
after the map is transmitted to him. Said report shall indicate whether the
designated areas in which buildings are to be erected on each proposed parcel
or lot, as shown on said map are less than 1,000 feet from a Los Angeles City
Fire Department fire hydrant, said distance to be measured along a route
providing reasonable access for the laying of fire hoses in an emergency, or
whether adequate alternative fire protection exists or is in the process of
being provided for said parcel or lots. (Amended by Ord. No. 143,254, Eff.
5/14/72.)



 



   B.   Approval. When Advisory Agency determines that the proposed
Parcel Map complies with all the provisions of these parcel map regulations,
and no dedication or improvement is required, it shall approve the map.



 



   C.   Conditional Approval. When the Advisory Agency determines that
the preliminary Parcel Map complies with all of the provisions of these
parcel map regulations, but that street or alley dedications or improvements,
storm drain easements, sanitary sewer easements or slope easements are
necessary, or that grading or construction of an engineered retaining
structure as specified in this section is necessary. It may approve the
proposed preliminary Parcel Map subject to the following conditions being
complied with to the satisfaction of the City Engineer: (Amended by Ord. No.
143,254, Eff. 5/14/72.)



 



   1.   That an offer be made to dedicate such land as is necessary for
street or alley purposes in compliance with the applicable street and alley
design standards established in Section 17.05 of this Code and such storm
drain easements, sanitary sewer easements and slope easements as are deemed
necessary. The offer shall be properly executed by all parties having a
record interest therein including beneficiaries under deeds of trust as shown
by a current preliminary title report prepared by a title company approved by
the City Engineer for that purpose. The trustee under said deed of trust
shall not be required to execute the dedicatory instrument, unless, in the
view of the City Engineer, such execution is necessary to satisfactorily
dedicate the land. This report shall be on a form approved by the City
Attorney and the City Engineer; be in such terms as to be binding on the
owner, his heirs, assigns or successors in interest; and shall continue until
the City Council accepts or rejects it. The offer shall provide that the
dedication will be complete upon acceptance by the City Council. The City
Engineer or a designated deputy shall approve or disapprove the offer for
recordation within ten days after it is filed with the City Engineer. The
offer shall be recorded by the City Engineer in the Office of the County
Recorder upon its approval by the City Engineer or said deputy. If the
streets, alleys and easements being offered for dedication are required for
immediate public use as streets, alleys and easements, a resolution of
acceptance shall thereafter be submitted to the City Council concurrently
with the final Parcel Map in order to complete the dedication. Offers to
dedicate which are not required for immediate public use will be retained by
the City until such time as acceptance for public use occurs. If an offer is
rejected by the City Council, the City Engineer shall issue a release from
such offer which shall be recorded in the office of the County Recorder.
(Amended by Ord. No. 152,425, Eff. 6/29/79, Oper. 7/1/79.)



 



   (a)   When it is determined that additional street dedication for
widening will be required from property adjoining that depicted in the
preliminary Parcel Map in order to comply with the applicable street
standards provided for in Section 17.05 of this Chapter, the offer of
dedication provided for hereinabove shall include an agreement as a covenant
running with the land that upon completion of the dedication, a one–foot
wide portion of the property included within the dedication and abutting such
adjoining property shall not be used for access thereto. This agreement shall
be in the form of a covenant running with the land and shall be recorded, but
shall by its own terms become null and void upon the completion of the
dedication of the additional land needed for street purposes from the
adjoining property. The City Engineer shall show that portion of the
dedication which is subject to the recorded covenant on the District Maps of
the City of Los Angeles. As long as said agreement remains in effect, the
aforesaid one–foot strip shall not be used as a means of access to said
adjoining property, nor shall any permits be issued by any City Department
permitting its use for access purposes. (Amended by Ord. No. 130,871, Eff.
9/20/65.)



 



   (b)   (None)



 



   2.   That such improvements as are required be constructed and
installed to the satisfaction of the City Engineer or that construction and
installation of such improvements be guaranteed in accordance with the
provisions of Section 17.08 G. of the Code. Said improvements shall be
limited to grading and the installation of local drainage and sewer
facilities, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, street lights, street trees and
roadway surfacing. In addition, the City Engineer may also require such other
incidental improvements as are essential to the proper installation of the
required public street or alley improvements. All such improvements shall be
graded and improved in accordance with plans approved by the City Engineer.
When the conditions of approval of the Preliminary Parcel Map specify that
improvements are required to be constructed prior to the grant of any
development right, no building permit shall be issued until the improvements
have been constructed or suitably guaranteed in accordance with Section 17.08
G. of the Code. (Amended by Ord. No. 157,811, Eff. 8/13/83.)



 



   2.5.   That if grading or construction of an engineered retaining
structure is required by the Advisory Agency to remove potential geologic
hazards, such grading or construction shall be completed or guaranteed to the
satisfaction of the City Engineer and/or the Superintendent of Building.
(Added by Ord. No. 143,254, Eff. 5/14/72.)



 



   3.   (Amended by Ord. No. 143,254, Eff. 5/14/72.) When recommended
by the Fire Department, the Advisory Agency may as a condition of approval of
the preliminary Parcel Map, require the installation of fire hydrants to the
satisfaction of the Fire Department.



 



   (a)   Upon proper application to the City Council, and upon
recommendation of the City Engineer of Waterworks of the Department of Water
and Power, the City may provide for contribution toward the costs of
installation of water mains and hydrants necessary to comply with this
subsection where said Chief Engineer determines that the cost of such
installation is greatly in excess of normal charges for providing like
facilities.



 



   4.   Failure to fulfill all conditions of a conditional approval
within one year after the date of such approval shall automatically terminate
and void the proceedings. Upon application, prior to the expiration of the
original one–year period, an extension of time for a period not exceeding
one year may be granted by the Advisory Agency. The Advisory Agency’s
determination on an application for a time extension shall be subject to the
appeal provision of Section 17.54 of this Code. (Added by Ord. No. 143,254,
Eff. 5/14/72.)



 



   D.   Modification of Requirements.(Amended by Ord. No. 143,254, Eff.
5/14/72.)



 



   1.   The Advisory Agency may modify or waive any dedication or
improvement requirements where the division of land is for the purpose of
disposing of land by a public agency, if it determines such action is in the
public interest.



 



   2.   The Advisory Agency may also modify or waive the application of
the Design Standards for Streets and Alleys and the improvements required by
this section and Section 17.05 of this Code when it finds that their strict
application would result in practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships
inconsistent with the general purposes and intent of these regulations.



 



   Before approving the omission of any of the aforesaid requirements, the
Advisory Agency shall refer the matter back to the agency which originally
recommended the requirement, and to any other involved agency for further
report, with a statement of the reasons for its omission.



 



   3.   Notwithstanding the above, the Advisory Agency may not waive
any mandatory requirements relating to public health or safety recommended by
other officials or departments in the exercise of their duties prescribed by
law.



 



   4.   Where the Advisory Agency elects to modify or waive
requirements it shall do so within the time limit established in Subsection
F. of this section and any such modification or waiver shall in all cases be
consistent with the intent of these parcel map regulations.



 



   E.   Disapproval. In the event the preliminary Parcel Map is
disapproved, the disapproval shall be in writing, shall set forth the reasons
and clearly indicate wherein the proposed Parcel Map would be contrary to any
of the provisions of these regulations, and shall be transmitted to the
applicant. (Amended by Ord. No. 130,871, Eff. 9/20/65.)



 



   F.   Time Limits for Action by the Advisory Agency. (Amended by Ord.
No. 143,254, Eff. 5/14/72.) The Advisory Agency shall review and either
approve, conditionally approve or disapprove the map within 30 days after the
filing of the map with the Planning Department, or within such additional
time as is mutually agreed upon in writing by the applicant and the Advisory
Agency, unless geology and soils reports are required as specified in Section
17.51 C. of this Code, in which case the Advisory Agency shall act within 44
days after the subject geologic and soils reports have been submitted by the
applicant or within such additional time as is mutually agreed upon in
writing by the applicant and the Advisory Agency.



 



   If the Advisory Agency refers a matter back to an agency as provided
for in Section 17.53 D.2. of this Code, the time limits for action by the
Advisory Agency shall automatically be extended for 7 days.



 



   G.   Where Parcel Map Includes Land Within Drainage District.
Whenever a Parcel Map, or a portion thereof includes land which is within a
Local Drainage District, the provisions and requirements of the ordinance
establishing such District shall be complied with. (Added by Ord. No.
142,862, Eff. 2/13/72.)



 



   H.   Modifications of Approved Preliminary Parcel Maps. The Advisory
Agency may grant slight modifications to a Preliminary Parcel Map upon its
own initiative or upon a request from a subdivider. The modifications may be
granted where it is impractical to conform to the strict application of the
requirements of this article for one or more of the following reasons
relating to the property: (1) its size or shape; (2) title limitations of
record; (3) topographical location or conditions, or subsurface conditions;
(4) the specific intended use; or (5) the application of provisions of
Article 1 of this chapter. A request for slight modification shall be
submitted in a form acceptable to the Advisory Agency. Notice of the action
of the Advisory Agency shall be given to the subdivider and to all persons to
whom notification of the preliminary parcel map is required by law. The
Advisory Agency action on a slight modification request may be appealed in
accordance with the provisions of Section 17.54 of this Code. The action of
the Advisory Agency on a slight modification or an appeal from that action
shall not extend the time for recording a Parcel Map with the County
Recorder. (Added by Ord. No. 156,358, Eff. 3/21/82.)



 



   I.   Clarification Authority. If the City Council imposes a
condition as part of an action on a related application that differs from a
condition of approval on a preliminary parcel map, then the Advisory Agency
shall have the authority to make the parcel map conditions consistent with
the City Council action. (Added by Ord. No. 176,321, Eff. 1/15/05.)



 



   J.   Further Authority. (Added by Ord. No. 176,321, Eff. 1/15/05.) 
The Advisory Agency, acting in the capacity of an Associate Zoning
Administrator, shall have the authority to reduce the width of required
passageways pursuant to Section 12.21 C.2.(b) to no less than five feet
between habitable buildings and detached condominiums, unless the Fire
Department determines that the reduction would result in a safety hazard. 
And shall have the authority to grant deviations of no more than 20 percent
from the applicable area, yard, and height requirements.  The subdivider
must ask for adjustment(s) at the time of filing.  In permitting
adjustments, the Advisory Agency shall make the findings contained in Section
12.28 C.4.



 



   The reductions/deviations shall be included in the written decision of
the Advisory Agency.  Notification and appeal rights to such
reductions/deviations shall conform to Section 17.54 A.



 



 



SEC. 17.54.  APPEALS.



 



   A.   Procedure.  (Amended by Ord. No. 177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.)



 



   Appeal to Appeal Board.  An applicant or any other person claiming to
be aggrieved by an action or determination of the Advisory Agency with
respect to a preliminary Parcel Map, certificate or conditional certificate
of compliance pursuant to California Government Code Section 66499.35 or an
exemption from the Parcel Map regulations pursuant to Section 17.50 B.3.(c)
of this Code may, within a period of 15 days after the date of mailing of the
decision of the Advisory Agency, appeal to the Appeal Board for a public
hearing.  Appeals to the Appeal Board shall be filed in duplicate in a
public office of the Department of City Planning on forms provided for that
purpose and shall be accompanied by the fees required in Section 19.02 of
this Code.  The appeal shall not be considered as having been filed unless
and until the form has been properly completed and all information required
by it has been submitted.  The complete appeal form and file shall then
immediately be transmitted to the Appeal Board Secretary for hearing before
the Appeal Board.



 



   The Appeal Board, upon notice to the applicant, the person claiming to
be aggrieved, if any, and the Advisory Agency, shall hear the appeal within
30 days after the expiration of the 15-day appeal period unless the applicant
consents to an extension of time pursuant to Subsection B. of this section. 
At the time established for the hearing, the Appeal Board shall hear the
testimony of the applicant and witnesses in his/her behalf, the testimony of
any aggrieved persons, if there are any, and the testimony of the Advisory
Agency and any witnesses on its behalf.  The Appeal Board may also hear the
testimony of other competent persons respecting the character of the
neighborhood in which the division of land is to be located, the kinds,
nature and extent of improvements, the quality or kinds of development to
which the area is best adapted or any other relevant phase of the matter into
which the Appeal Board may desire to inquire.



 



   Upon conclusion of the hearing, the Appeal Board shall within 14 days
declare findings based upon the testimony and documents produced before it. 
It may sustain, modify, reject or overrule any recommendation or ruling of
the Advisory Agency and may make findings consistent with applicable
provisions of this article.



 



   Failure to Act.  If at the end of the time limit specified in this
subsection or at the end of any extension of time pursuant to Subsection B.
of this section, the Appeal Board fails to act, the appeal shall be deemed
denied and the decision from which the appeal was taken shall be deemed
affirmed.



 



   B.   Extension Of Time. Any of the time limits specified in this
section may be extended by mutual consent of the applicant and the Advisory
Agency or the Appeal Board. (B. Deleted, C. Relettered B. and Amended by Ord.
No. 176,321, Eff. 1/15/05.)



 



 



SEC. 17.55.  MAP IDENTIFICATION AND REPRODUCTION.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 130,871, Eff. 9/20/65.)



 



   Each preliminary Parcel Map shall be identified with a number assigned
by the City Planning Department and the date of filing. Said number shall be
shown on the recorded Parcel Map.



 



 



SEC. 17.56.  PARCEL MAP.



 



   A.   Time Limit.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,106, Eff. 5/20/12.) 
The following provisions establish the term of preliminary Parcel Map
approvals and Tentative Map approvals under Section 17.50 C. of this Code:



 



   1.   Within 36 months after the approval or conditional approval of
the preliminary Parcel Map or approval of a Tentative Map filed pursuant to
the requirements of Section 17.50 C. of this Code,  a final Parcel Map
showing each new parcel shall be prepared and filed with the City Engineer
and submitted by the City Engineer to the City Council.  The failure of a
person dividing land to file the map with the City Engineer within that
period and to have the map corrected and presented by the City Engineer to
the City Clerk within the specified time limit shall automatically terminate
and void the proceedings unless the time is extended by the Advisory Agency
or the Appeal Board, upon the appeal from a denial of the extension by the
Advisory Agency.



 



   2.   The time limit for the submittal of a corrected Parcel Map to
the City Council may be extended for a period or periods not exceeding a
total of 72 months.



 



   The provisions of this subsection shall apply to those maps described
above and shall also apply to those maps that were approved or conditionally
approved prior to the effective date of this subsection and that have not
terminated prior to that date.



 



   EXCEPTION.  The term of a preliminary Parcel Map approval or Tentative
Map approval under Section 17.50 C. of this Code shall be automatically
extended pursuant to the provisions of California Governmental Code Sections
66452.21, 66452.22, and 66452.23, and any other current or future provision
of the Subdivision Map Act that operates to extend the term of such approvals.



 



   B.   Procedure. (Amended by Ord. No. 157,811, Eff. 8/13/83.) A final
parcel map shall be prepared and filed with the City Engineer in compliance
with the provisions of this article. Said map shall conform substantially to
the approved preliminary parcel map, or the approved tentative map which was
filed pursuant to the requirements contained in Section 17.50 of this Code.
The final parcel map shall be accepted by the City Council provided that:



 



   1.   The necessary improvements and grading or retaining structure
construction, as set forth in the approval of the preliminary parcel map,
have been installed and approved by the City, or provided the subdivider
executes an Improvement Agreement and submits or agrees to submit:



 



   a.   Improvement plans; and



 



   b.   Satisfactory grading or construction plans, where grading or
construction of an engineered retaining structure is required in Hillside
Areas; and



 



   c.   Improvement Securities, warranty guarantees, and labor and
material payment securities in accordance with provisions of Section 17.08 G.
of this Code



 



   2.   All approvals have been obtained from City departments and
other public agencies; and



 



   3.   Any special assessment or bond required to be paid or
guaranteed pursuant to Section 66493(c) of the Subdivision Map Act has been
paid in full, or such payment has been guaranteed.



 



   C.   Final Parcel Map Requirements. (Title Amended by Ord. No.
157,811, Eff. 8/31/83.)



 



   1.   The following information shall be submitted with the Parcel
Map: names, address and telephone number of the record owners, and person
preparing the Parcel Map. The general form and layout of the map, including
size and type of lettering, drafting and location of acknowledgment, etc.,
shall be determined by the City Engineer. The map shall be prepared on high
quality tracing cloth or other material approved by the City Engineer.



 



   1.5   The map shall show the location of each parcel and its
relation to surrounding surveys. The location of any remainder of the
original parcel shall be shown, but need not be shown as a matter of survey
but only by reference to the existing record boundaries of such remainder if
such remainder has a gross area of five acres or more. (Added by Ord. No.
133,753, Eff. 4/11/75.)



 



   2.   (Amended by  No. 146,985, Eff. 4/11/75.) Each sheet of said
Parcel Map shall be 18 × 26 inches. A marginal line shall be drawn around
each sheet, leaving a blank margin of one inch. The scale of the map shall be
such as to show all details clearly. Each sheet shall be numbered, and its
relation to other sheets clearly shown. The Parcel Map number, scale and
north point shall be shown on each sheet. If more than three sheets are
necessary to show the entire division of land, an index map shall be included
on one of the sheets.



 



   The exterior boundary of the land included within the subdivision shall
be indicated by distinctive symbols and clearly so designated. Each parcel
shall be identified by a letter.



 



   3.   Where the division of land creates four or less parcels, the
Parcel Map may be compiled from recorded or filed data when sufficient survey
information exists on filed maps to locate and retrace the exterior boundary
lines of the parcel map if the location of at least one of these boundary
lines can be established from an existing monumented line. (Amended by Ord.
No. 146,985, Eff. 4/11/75. )



 



   4.   All other Parcel Maps shall be based upon a field survey made
in conformance with the Land Surveyor’s Act.



 



   5.   The Parcel Map shall be prepared by a registered civil engineer
or licensed land surveyor. A signed Surveyor’s Certificate as required by
the Subdivision Map Act shall appear on the Parcel Map.



 



   5.5   Where there are no dedications being made by the Parcel Map, a
certificate signed and acknowledged by the fee owners only, of the real
property being subdivided, consenting to the preparation and recordation of
the parcel map, shall be required. (Added by Ord. No. 148,598, Eff. 8/25/76.)



 



   6.   Within 20 days after receiving the Parcel Map, the City
Engineer shall examine it for the survey information shown thereon, and if he
is satisfied that it is technically correct, he shall certify the map in
accordance with the provisions of the Subdivision Map Act.



 



   7.   Each approved Parcel Map recorded with the County Recorder
shall contain the following statement; “The approval of this Parcel Map
shall not be construed as having been based upon geological investigation
such as will authorize the issuance of building permits on the subject
property. Such permits will be issued only at such time as the Department of
Building and Safety has received such topographic maps and geological reports
as it deems necessary to justify the issuance of such building permits.”
(Added by Ord. No. 143,254, Eff. 5/14/72.)



 



 



SEC. 17.57.  APPROVAL OF MAP SHALL NOT AUTHORIZE VIOLATION OF OTHER LAWS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 130,871, Eff. 9/20/65. )



 



   Neither the approval or conditional approval of any Parcel Map shall
constitute or waive compliance with any other applicable provision of this
Code, nor shall any such approval authorize or be deemed to authorize a
violation or failure to comply with other applicable provisions of this Code.



 



 



SEC. 17.58.  PARK AND RECREATION SITE ACQUISITION AND DEVELOPMENT.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 184,505, Eff. 1/11/17.)



 



   No final subdivision map shall be approved, nor shall it be recorded,
unless land within the subdivision has been dedicated to the City of Los
Angeles for park or recreational purposes or the park fee has been paid
pursuant to Section 12.33 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.



 



 



SEC. 17.59.  MODIFICATION OF RECORDED PARCEL MAPS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 157,533, Eff. 5/12/83.)



 



   A.   In addition to amendments to parcel maps authorized by
Government Code Section 66469, after a parcel map is filed with the Office of
the County Recorder, such recorded map, including the conditions of approval
thereof, may be modified pursuant to the provisions of this section. The
provisions of this section are not applicable to certificates of correction
or amending maps filed pursuant to Government Code Section 66469.



 



   B.   (Amended by Ord. No. 176,321, Eff. 1/15/05.) Applications for
certificates of correction or amending maps filed pursuant to this section
may be filed with the Advisory Agency.  The submittal of an application and
processing of such applications shall conform to the provisions of Section
17.53 H. of this Code relating to the filing and processing of modifications
of preliminary parcel maps.



 



   The public notice and hearing shall conform to the provisions of
Section 17.06 A.1.  The decision of the Advisory Agency may be appealed in
accordance with the applicable provisions of Section 17.54 of this Code
relating to the appeal of preliminary parcel maps.



 



   C.   Consideration of and action on such applications shall be
limited to the proposed modifications.



 



   D.   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.) No
such modification or amending map may be approved unless the Advisory Agency,
or the Appeal Board or City Council on appeal, finds each of the following:



 



   1.   That there are changes in circumstances which make any or all
of the conditions of such map no longer appropriate or necessary;



 



   2.   That the modifications do not impose any additional burden on
the present fee owner of the property;



 



   3.   That the modifications do not alter any right, title or
interest in the real property reflected on the recorded map;



 



   4.   That the map and conditions as modified conform to the
provisions of Government Code Section 66474 and of this Code;



 



   5.   That the decision–maker has given consideration, among other
factors, to the effects of the modifications on surrounding properties.



 



   E.   (Added by Ord. No. 163,641, Eff. 7/1/88.)  Modifications and
amending maps shall be governed by the following limitations.



 



   1.   No modifications involving increases in density shall be
allowed which would change the density of a parcel map as approved on appeal
by the Appeal Board or the City Council, where such density was the subject
of the appeal to the Appeal Board or the City Council.



 



   2.   No condition may be modified if it was imposed as a mitigating
measure identified in a mitigated or conditional negative declaration or in
an Environmental Impact Report.



 



   3.   Modifications involving increases in density shall not exceed
an increase of one lot or dwelling unit.



 



   (a)   For subdivision of fewer than 10 lots or dwelling units, any
density increase shall be limited to one lot or dwelling unit; and



 



   (b)   For subdivisions containing 10 or more lots or dwelling units,
any increase shall be limited to not more than 10 percent of that originally
approved.



 



   4.   Modifications involving either increase in the height of
structures, or in the elevation of building pads where the elevation of such
pads has been specified by the Advisory Agency, shall be limited as follows:



 



   (a)   an increase in the height of structures of not more than 10
percent above the approved height of such structures; or



 



   (b)   an increase in the elevation of building pads of not more than
5 feet above the approved elevation of such pads.



 



   Any such increase in height or elevation shall not obstruct the view
from surrounding properties. A greater increase in the elevation of building
pads may be approved if such increase has been determined to be necessary for
health and safety reasons by the Department of Building and Safety.



 



   5.   No modifications shall be permitted which violate the intent of
any of the original conditions of the parcel map approval as that intent is
expressed in the findings or otherwise by the decision maker.



 



   F.   An amending map or certificate of correction shall be recorded
with the Office of the County Recorder in the manner specified in Government
Code Section 66472. If the modification of one or more conditions does not
require an amending map or certificate of correction, the approval of the
modification shall be evidenced in a letter mailed to the subdivider and made
a part of the subject parcel map file.  (Former Subsec. E Redesignated F by
Ord. No. 163,641, Eff. 7/1/88.)



 



 



SEC. 17.60.  SALES CONTRARY TO PARCEL MAP REGULATIONS ARE VOIDABLE.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 146,985, Eff. 4/11/75.)



 



   Any deed of conveyance, sale or contract to sell made contrary to the
provisions of these Parcel Map regulations is voidable to the extent and in
the same manner as is provided for violation of Section 66499.32 of the
Subdivision Map Act.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 8
PRIVATE STREET REGULATIONS



 



 



Section



18.00   Scope.



18.01   Definitions.



18.02   Duties of Director.



18.03   Procedure.



18.04   Subdivisions.



18.05   Private Streets, Lot or Building Site Standards.



18.07   Posting of Private Streets.



18.08   Director Approval and Appeals.



18.09   Private Street Names.



18.10   Building Permits.



18.12   Modifications.



 



 



SEC. 18.00.  SCOPE.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 122,064, Eff. 6/14/62.)



 



   A.   The purpose of this article is to prescribe rules and
regulations governing the platting and division of land as lots or building
sites which are contiguous or adjacent to private road easements; to provide
for the filing and approval of Private Street Maps; to provide for the
approval of private road easements as private streets, to provide for the
naming of private streets, and to require that lots or building sites which
are contiguous or adjacent to private streets conform to the minimum
requirements of this chapter before permits may be issued. (Amended by Ord.
No. 158,691, Eff. 3/12/84.)



 



   B.   When private streets have been laid out and designated as such
to a recorded subdivision map or on a filed record of survey map, the
provisions of this article shall not apply thereto.



 



   C.   When a developed residential lot or building site has its
access driveway located within a private road easement and the dwelling and
access driveway existed prior to September 6, 1961, said private road
easement shall be deemed to have been approved in accordance with the
provisions of this article and may be continued. Further, on such lot or
building site additions and alterations may be made to such dwelling, and
accessory buildings may be erected on said lot if no additional dwelling
units or guest rooms are created.



 



   An ordinance requiring a residence to be built upon a lot having a
frontage on a street or private easement determined by the planning
commission to be adequate for purposes of access is valid and is not an
unlawful delegation of legislative power.



   Mitchell v. Morris, Cal. App. 2d 466.



 



 



SEC. 18.01.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   For the purpose of this article, the following words and phrases are
defined as follows:



 



   “Approved” shall mean “Approved by the City Engineer of the City
of Los Angeles,” unless otherwise specified.



 



   “Board” shall mean the Area Planning Commission.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)



 



   “Building site” shall mean any parcel of land which conforms to the
definition of a lot as defined herein.



 



   “City”(Deleted by Ord. No. 173,106, Eff. 3/5/00.)



 



   “Council”(Deleted by Ord. No. 173,106, Eff. 3/5/00.)



 



   “Commission”(Deleted by Ord. No. 173,106, Eff. 3/5/00.)



 



   “Director” (Deleted by Ord. No. 173,106, Eff. 3/5/00.)



 



   “Highway, Major – Any street designated as a major highway on the
Highways and Freeways maps of the Transportation Element of the General
Plan.  (Added by Ord. No. 172,840, Eff. 11/4/99.)



 



   Highway, Secondary – Any street designated as a secondary highway on
the Highways and Freeways maps of the Transportation Element of the General
Plan.  (Added by Ord. No. 172,840, Eff. 11/4/99.)



 



   “Local street” shall mean a street providing access to abutting
property and serving local, as distinguished from through traffic.



 



   “Lot” shall mean a parcel of land conforming to the definition of
LOT contained in Section 12.03 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 128,289, Eff. 10/15/64.)



 



   “Major Highway”(Deleted by Ord. No. 172,840, Eff. 11/4/99.)



 



   “Person” shall mean natural person, joint venture, joint stock
company, partnership, association, club, company, corporation, business
trust, organization or the manager, lessee, agent, servant, officer or
employee of any of them.



 



   “Private road easement” shall mean a parcel of land not dedicated
as a public street, over which a private easement for road purposes is
proposed to be or has been granted to the owners of property contiguous or
adjacent thereto which intersects or connects with a public street, or a
private street, in each instance the instrument creating such easement shall
be or shall have been duly recorded or filed in the Office of the County
Recorder of Los Angeles County. (Amended by Ord. No. 122,064, Eff. 6/14/62.)



 



   “Private street” shall mean, except as otherwise provided in this
article, a parcel of land not dedicated as a public street over which a
private easement for road purposes has been granted to the owners of property
contiguous or adjacent thereto which intersects or connects with a public
street, or another private street, and the instrument creating same has been
duly recorded or filed in the office of the Recorder of Los Angeles County,
and which has been determined by the Director to be adequate for the access
and for the purposes defined in this article.  (Amended by Ord. No. 158,691,
Eff. 3/12/84.)



 



   “Secondary Highway” (Deleted by Ord. No. 172,840, Eff. 11/4/99.)



 



   “Shall” and “may”. “Shall” is mandatory. “May” is
permissive.



 



 



SEC. 18.02.  DUTIES OF DIRECTOR.



 



   The Director is hereby charged with the duty of making investigations
and approving the platting and division of land as lots or building sites
which are contiguous or adjacent to private road easements, and of
determining the following: (Amended by Ord. No. 122,064, Eff. 6/14/62.)



 



   (a)   That there exists adequate and safe vehicular access to the
property from a public street over a private street for police, fire,
sanitation and public service vehicles.  (Amended by Ord. No. 109,695, Eff.
8/23/57.)



 



   (b)   That an adequate water supply is available for domestic and
fire fighting purposes.  (Amended by Ord. No. 109,695, Eff. 8/23/57.)



 



   (c)   That an approved method of sewage disposal is available.
Where, in order to properly maintain drainage and sewer improvements or to
adequately provide for their connection with existing public facilities, it
is necessary to acquire public easement rights, an offer to dedicate such
easements for sanitary sewer or storm drain purposes may be required. The
offer shall be properly executed by all parties having a record interest
therein, including beneficiaries under deeds of trust, as shown by a current
preliminary title report. Said title report to be prepared by a title company
approved by the Bureau of Right of Way and Land for that purpose. The report
shall be furnished by the applicant. The offer shall be on a form approved by
the City Attorney and the Director of the Bureau of Right of Way and Land, be
in such terms as to be binding on the owner, his heirs, assigns or successors
in interest, and shall continue until the City Council accepts or rejects it.
The offer shall provide that the dedication will be complete upon the
acceptance by the City Council. The Director or his deputy shall approve or
disapprove the offer for recordation within ten days after it is filed with
the Bureau. The offer shall be recorded by the Bureau of Right of Way and
Land in the Office of the County Recorder upon its approval by the Director
or his deputy. The offer shall thereafter be promptly presented and processed
by the City Departments concerned and submitted to the City Council, in order
to complete the dedication within the earliest possible time. If the offer is
rejected by the City Council, the Bureau of Right of Way and Land shall issue
a release from such offer which shall be recorded in the Office of the County
Recorder. When said Bureau approves the offer to dedicate, it shall notify
the City Engineer. (Amended by Ord. No. 133,346, Eff. 12/26/66.)



 



   (d)   That the lot or building site is graded and engineered in
accordance with the grading regulations of the City of Los Angeles as set
forth in Article 1 of Chapter 9 of this Code.  (Added by Ord. No. 122,064
Eff. 6/14/62.)



 



   (e)   That any proposed name of a private street has been approved
by the City Engineer applying the standards set forth in Subdivision 6 of
Subsection A of Section 17.52.  (Added by Ord. No. 158,691, Eff. 3/12/84.)



 



 



SEC. 18.03.  PROCEDURE.



 



   (a)   (Amended by Ord. No. 122,064, Eff. 6/14/62.) No person shall
plat or divide land as lots or building sites which are contiguous or
adjacent to a private road easement and no person shall be granted a building
permit for such a lot or building site unless a Private Street Map has been
first filed with and approved by the Director in accordance with the
provisions of this article. Every person who shall plat or divide such land,
and every person applying for a building permit for such lots or building
sites shall file with the Director at least 15 copies of a Private Street Map
showing the proposed platting or division of land. Such maps shall be
prepared with respect to all engineering data required herein by or under the
direction of a licensed surveyor or a registered civil engineer, and shall
contain the following information:



 



   1.   A private street map number furnished by the County Surveyor,
together with the following statement: “The purpose of this map is to
obtain approval of private streets.”



 



   2.   Sufficient legal description of the land to describe the
location of the proposed division of lands, together with a location survey
of the private street.



 



   3.   Names and addresses of record owners or of other persons
dividing the land, and the engineer or surveyor;



 



   4.   The locations, names and existing widths of all adjoining and
contiguous public highways, streets and ways and private streets and the
proposed name of each private street on the land platted or divided. (Amended
by Ord. No. 158,691, Eff. 3/12/84.)



 



   5.   The widths and approximate grades of all existing and proposed
public highways, streets and ways and private streets;



 



   6.   The approximate width and location of all existing and proposed
easements for drainage, sewer and public utility purposes;



 



   7.   Approximate radii of all curves;



 



   8.   The approximate lot layout and the approximate dimensions of
each lot or building site;



 



   9.   The approximate location, width and direction of flow of all
water courses;



 



   10.   The proposed method of sewage disposal;



 



   11.   The proposed use of property;



 



   12.   The approximately accurate contours drawn to intervals
prescribed by the City Engineer where topography controls or influences the
layout or water supply;



 



   13.   The approximate location of all trees that will affect
locations of easements;



 



   14.   The date, north point and scale;



 



   15.   The approximate location and outline of each existing building
or structure;



 



   16.   The boundary line of the parcel of land divided;



 



   17.   Any of the foregoing data which is impossible or impractical
to place upon the Private Street Map shall be submitted in writing with the
map.



 



   (b)   The director shall not accept any Private Street Map for
filing unless the fees prescribed in this Chapter shall have been paid. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 129,575, Eff. 4/4/65.)



 



   (c)   The Director shall not act on any Private Street Map until he
receives a report thereon from the City Engineer, the Department of Building
and Safety, the Fire Department and the Department of Water and Power.
Reports from the Departments shall be submitted to the Director within 30
days of the date of receipt of request for said reports.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 127,508, Eff. 6/29/64.)



 



 



SEC. 18.04.  SUBDIVISIONS.



 



   The provisions of this article shall not be construed as authorizing
the subdivision of land without fully complying with the provisions contained
and set forth in Article 7 of this chapter. However, the provisions of this
article may be complied with by complying with the provisions of Article 7 of
this chapter relating to subdivisions without the necessity for filing a
Private Street Map in addition to the subdivision maps required by said
article. (Amended by Ord. No. 122,064, Eff. 6/14/62.)



 



 



SEC. 18.05.  PRIVATE STREETS, LOT OR BUILDING SITE STANDARDS.



 



   All private streets, lots or building sites shall conform to the
following regulations:



 



   A.   Major and Secondary Highways.  (Amended by Ord. No. 172,840,
Eff. 11/4/99.) The location, widths and alignment of all private streets
shall conform to the location, widths and alignment of all major and
secondary highways designated on the Highways and Freeways maps of the
Transportation Element of the General Plan; and to any proceedings for any
public improvement; and to any “subdivision map” which has been
tentatively approved.



 



   B.   Local Street Alignment – All private streets as far as
practical shall be in alignment with existing public or private streets and
their proper projections or prolongations provided that where the property
being divided into lots or building sites is large enough a modified curve
street layout may be permitted;



 



   C.   Private Street Width – All  private streets shall be
designed to conform with private street standards adopted by the Commission
as provided in Section 17.05 of the Code;  (Amended by Ord. No. 122,064,
Eff. 6/14/62.)



 



   D.   Street Grades – On hillside or mountain streets comprising a
through route, a grade in excess of six percent (6%) shall not be permitted
unless a grade not to exceed eight percent (8%) will obviate an excessive
curvature or eliminate excessive cuts. Grades of all streets shall be as low
as possible consistent with the advantageous development of the proposed
platting and division of land;



 



   The grade of any street of more than local traffic needs shall not
exceed ten percent (10%). No local street grade shall exceed fifteen percent
(15%);



 



   E.   Curves And Tangents – A minimum center line radius of at
least seventy–five (75) feet shall be used on winding mountain streets, a
minimum center line radius of at least five hundred (500) feet shall be used
on all through traffic streets. In flat areas, curves on local streets shall
have radii as long as possible consistent with local conditions. The tangent
distance between reversed curves shall not be less than fifty (50) feet;



 



   F.   Intersections – Private street intersections shall be as
nearly at right angles as practicable;



 



   G.   Effect on Adjoining Property – Private street layout shall be
designed to provide access to and not impose undue hardship upon property
adjoining the proposed division of lands;



 



   H.   Cul-De-Sacs (Dead-End Streets) – Cul-de-sacs shall be
permitted only where through streets are not practical, or where good
neighborhood design suggests their use. Adequate provisions for turning shall
be made at the end of each such cul-de-sacs by providing a circle or other
area within a minimum over all radius of 42 feet. In the case of unusual
topographic conditions, a “T” or “Y” turn may be permitted. The legs
of the “T” or “Y” turn shall have a minimum paved surface 12 feet in
width and 20 feet in length, the minimum radius between each leg and the
street shall be 20 feet.



 



   I.   Rounding Block Corner –At all block corners, the property
line shall be rounded or cut back. Intersection corners on the private street
prolongation of major and secondary highways shall be rounded with 20' radius
curves and all other corners shall be rounded with 15' radius curves provided
that where business development is indicated a diagonal cut-off substantially
equivalent to rounding may be used in order to aid building construction, in
which case at right angle intersections a substantial equivalent shall be a
ten-foot by ten-foot cutoff.



 



   J.   Improvements, Drainage And Sewage –



 



   1.   All private streets and all lots and building sites laid out
contiguous or adjacent to private streets shall have approved drainage
facilities and the method for sewage disposal shall be approved by the
Department of Health. All such private streets shall be graded and improved
to an approved width and grade. The street grading and improvement shall
include surface improvements, fire hydrants and water mains, catch basins,
pipe culverts, sanitary sewers where reasonably available and storm drains
where required. Drainage easements shall be improved to an approved manner.
Major and secondary highways shall be graded to an approved width and
improved to an approved width and grade necessary for the general use of lot
owners adjoining said private street and local neighborhood traffic and
drainage needs;



 



   2.   Where street improvements, drainage or sewers are required to
be constructed in a private street, plans and profiles showing the grades and
the nature and extent of the required improvements shall be filed with the
City Engineer for his approval, the checking of plans, inspections,
supervision and other services rendered in connection with the construction
of required improvements shall be accomplished under permits in accordance
with the provisions of Section 62.105(b) of this Code.



 



   3.   Where improvements have been previously constructed in a
private street, plans and profiles showing the grades and the nature and
extent of the existing improvements shall be filed with the City Engineer for
the approval and said plans shall be checked and where additional
construction is required, the same shall be inspected and supervised, and all
services rendered in connection with the existing or required improvements
shall be accomplished under permit in accordance with the provisions of
Section 62.105(b) of this Code.



 



   4.   Whenever a Private Street Map or a portion thereof includes
land which is within a Local Drainage District, the provisions and
requirements of the ordinance establishing such District shall be complied
with. (Added by Ord. No. 142,862, Eff. 2/13/72.)



 



   K.   Conformance To General Plan.  (Amended by Ord. No. 138,800,
Operative 6/23/69.)  Each Private Street Map shall be designed in compliance
with the zoning applying to the property or approved by the City Council for
change.



 



   In addition, where a Private Street Map involves land for which a
General Plan including dwelling unit densities has been adopted by the
Council, and said land is also in an “H” Hillside or Mountainous Area
established by Article 2 of this chapter, the number of lots or building
sites on said map shall be limited so that the number of dwelling units
permitted by the applicable zoning regulations shall not substantially exceed
the dwelling unit densities shown on said plan. Provided, however, that the
Council, upon determining that a different density would be more in accord
with the public health, safety and welfare after considering the existing,
proposed and ultimate traffic, sewage, drainage and other facilities in the
area or any other pertinent information, and after report and recommendation
from the City Planning Commission, may by resolution establish a different
density than that shown on the adopted General Plan. In such instances the
number of lots permitted on the Private Street Map may be based on the
densities established by such resolution so long as the size of such lots is
not less than that required by the applicable zoning provisions. Should the
Commission fail to act upon a request for different density within 50 days of
its submission such request shall be transferred to the Council for action
thereon.



 



   Each Private Street Map shall substantially conform to all other
elements of the General Plan as adopted by the Commission.



 



 



SEC. 18.07.  POSTING OF PRIVATE STREETS.



 



   At or near the entrance of each intersection of a private street with a
dedicated public street or with another private street, there shall be
erected and maintained by applicant a sign post to which is attached a sign
having an area of at least 15 inches by 21 inches upon which is printed and
clearly legible in at least 2–inch letters the name of the private street
and the words “PRIVATE STREET,” in at least one-inch letters the words
“NOT DEDICATED FOR PUBLIC USE OR MAINTAINED BY THE CITY OF L.A. (LAMC
18.07).” The words, letters and figures of the sign shall be arranged in
substantially the following manner:



 




“(NAME OF STREET),
PRIVATE STREET
NOT DEDICATED FOR PUBLIC USE
OR MAINTAINED BY CITY OF L.A.
(LAMC 18.07)”




 



 



SEC. 18.08.  DIRECTOR APPROVAL AND APPEALS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 176,321, Eff. 1/15/05.)



 



   A.   Procedures.



 



   1.   Action of the Director.  All private street maps and all
prints or photostatic copies of maps as required in this article shall be
submitted to the Director for approval.  Within 40 days after the
application is deemed complete, the Director shall approve, conditionally
approve or disapprove the map.  When the Director makes a decision on the
private street, the written action shall be transmitted to the applicant.



 



   2.   Public Notice and Hearing.  Upon receipt of a complete
application, the initial decision-maker shall set the matter for public
hearing at which evidence shall be taken.  The Director shall give notice
consistent with the provisions of Section 17.06 A.1. of the LAMC.



 



   3.   Waiver.  The Director may waive the public hearing required in
this section if the applicant submits with the application the written
approval of all owners of properties adjacent or gaining access from the
private street.  No appeal hearing shall be waived.  Furthermore, with
respect to private streets not set for public hearing, a copy of the
determination shall be mailed to the applicant, and to the owners of
properties adjacent or gaining access from the private street and to all
persons who have filed written requests for notice with the Department of
City Planning.



 



   B.   Appeals to the Board.  An applicant or any other person
aggrieved by any action or determination of the Director of Planning with
respect to a private street map, may, within 15 days after the date of the
mailing of the decision of the Director, file an appeal from the action or
determination to the Board.  The Board shall consider the appeal within 30
days after the expiration of the 15-day appeal period, and shall, within
14-days affirm, modify, or reverse the action or determination.  The action
of the Board shall be final.



 



   C.   Extension of Time.  Any of the time limits specified in this
section may be extended by mutual consent of the applicant and the Director
or the Appeal Board, as the case may be.



 



   D.   Requirements for Utilization of Private Street. 
Notwithstanding Section 12.25 to the contrary, the private street approval
shall be void unless all conditions of approval are completed or fulfilled
within six years from the date of approval, except that grading and
improvement conditions shall be considered as fulfilled if the required work
is begun during that time limit and diligently carried on to completion. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 182,106, Eff. 5/20/12.)



 



 



SEC. 18.09.  PRIVATE STREET NAMES.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 158,691, Eff. 3/12/84.)



 



   A.   Private street names shall be established or changed pursuant
to procedures set forth in this section in the event no Private Street Map is
required under Section 18.03.



 



   B.   For purposes of this section only, “private street” shall
mean only ingress and/or egress easement, roadway, walkway, or other right of
way open to travel by pedestrians, non-motorized vehicles, or motor vehicles
which is not a public street or way whether or not the instrument creating it
has been recorded or filed in the Office of the Recorder of Los Angeles
County.



 



   C.   Applications to establish or change the name of a private
street shall be filed with the City Engineer. They shall be signed by a
majority of the owners of properties abutting the private street or that
portion of the street to be named or renamed, and be accompanied by:



 



   1.   Payment of the required application processing fees;



 



   2.   A map, drawn to scale, delineating the location, extent, width,
and alignment of the private street, the approximate location and frontage
dimensions of said parcels on said street and the location of existing public
streets which it may ingress or egress; and



 



   3.   Identity of the maker of the map and of the names and addresses
of owners of record of property abutting the private street or that portion
of the street to be named or renamed.



 



   D.   The Council may initiate proceedings to name or rename a
private street. In such event the Council action shall be referred to the
City Engineer. That office shall process said action in the manner set forth
in Subdivision E. and, if necessary or appropriate under the circumstances,
shall prepare a map in the manner which satisfies the requirements set forth
in Subdivision 2. of Subsection C. of this section.



 



   E.   Where there is an application filed to name or rename a private
street and no new Private Street Map is required pursuant to Section 18.03,
or there is a Council–initiated request, a private street may be named or
renamed to a requested new name and the necessary documents recorded by the
City Engineer with respect thereto, pursuant to the following procedure:



 



   1.   The City Engineer shall determine whether the proposed new name
or change of name of a street is in the public interest and will not create
confusion, be misleading, or be unduly long or carry connotations offensive
to good taste and decency;



 



   2.   The City Engineer shall give notice of the proposed new street
name or name change to the record owners and occupants of all real property
abutting such private street. The notice shall designate the location of the
private street or portion thereof to which the proposed new name is to apply.
The street, or the affected portion thereof, shall be described in the notice
with reference to other streets, and by the name or names, if any, which it
bears or by which it, or any portion thereof, may be or may have been known,
and the notice shall also state the proposed new street name. The notice
shall further set forth whether or not the City Engineer’s determination
recommends disapproval of the proposed name for reasons provided in
Subdivision 1. above, and shall state that any written objections with
respect to the proposed new name or name change or the City Engineer’s
recommendation, shall be filed with the City Engineer within 30 days after a
date designated on the notice as applicable for said purpose, and that said
objections shall be signed by each person so objecting.



 



   In the event any objections are filed within the 30–day time limit,
or within said time period any objections are filed with respect to a City
Engineer’s recommendation of disapproval, the City Engineer shall forward
these, together with the City Engineer’s determination and recommendations
and the applicable file to the City Council. The Council shall set the matter
for hearing and the City Clerk shall thereupon notify by mail each person
objecting to the proposed street name or to the City Engineer’s
recommendation of disapproval and inform that person of the time and place
for hearing. At the time specified, the Council shall hear all objections and
shall thereafter approve or disapprove the proposed street name. The City
Council’s decision shall be final and conclusive.



 



   In the event no objections are filed with the City Engineer within 30
days of the date prescribed on the notice and the City Engineer has not
recommended disapproval of the proposed new name, the application for that
name shall be deemed approved. In the event the City Engineer has recommended
disapproval of the proposed name, and no objections to that recommendation
have been filed, the application shall be deemed denied.



 



   If the new name is either approved by the Council, or in the event no
Council hearing was required, and the application is deemed approved, the new
private street name shall be effective and, the City Engineer shall cause any
necessary indexing and/or recordation of documents to be accomplished and
shall provide a copy of the determination to all City Departments rendering
emergency service to the affected properties and to the United States Postal
Service.



 



   F.   The approval or deemed approval of a private street name as
provided for in this Chapter is not, and shall not be construed to be, an
acceptance of a private street as a public street, nor shall it create any
public warranty or liability or legal status as a public street or be so
construed with respect thereto.



 



   G.   1.   Application processing fees shall be nonrefundable.



 



   2.   The application processing fee shall be $4,326.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 184,054, Eff. 3/6/16.)



 



 



SEC. 18.10.  BUILDING PERMITS.



 



   No building permits shall be issued for the erection of buildings on
lots or building sites which are contiguous or adjacent to private streets or
private road easements unless the following requirements have been met. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 109,695, Eff. 8/23/57.)



 



   (a)   That the “Private Street Map” shall have been duly
approved and written findings made as to the conditions of approval thereof.
(Amended by Ord. No. 126,468, Eff. 3/1/64.)



 



   (b)   That the Director shall certify to the Department of Building
and Safety that the conditions, if any, required by said written findings
have been fulfilled in a satisfactory manner and that a permit may be issued.
(Amended by Ord. No. 109,695, Eff. 8/23/57.)



 



 



SEC. 18.12.  MODIFICATIONS.



 



   The Director or the Board on appeal from a determination of the
Director, after a recommendation from the Board of Public Works, or the
Department of Water and Power, or in the exercise of sound, reasonable
judgement, may grant modifications from the requirements of Article 8,
Chapter 1 of this Code, only if the modifications are necessary because of
the size, use, physical or other conditions or private road easement or the
property contiguous or adjacent thereto. (Amended by Ord. No. 176,321, Eff.
1/15/05.)



 



 



 



ARTICLE 9
FEES



 




(Added by Ord No. 125,030, Eff. 8/15/63.)




 



 



Section



19.00   Filing of Applications and Appeals.



19.01   Filing Fee - Applications and Appeals.



19.02   Filing Fees - Division of Land and Private Street Maps and Appeals.



19.03   Fees for General Plan Consistency.



19.04   Fees for Sign-off Requests.



19.05   Filing Fees for Environmental Clearances.



19.06   Filing Fees for Coastal Development Permits.



19.07   Fees for Flood Hazard Reports and Compliance Checks.



19.08   Surcharge for Development Services Centers.



19.09   Project Development and Counseling Services.



19.10   Development Agreement Fees.



19.11   Annual Inspection of Compliance with Floor Area Ratio Averaging
and Residential Density Transfer Covenants.



19.12   [Deviations Pursuant to Section 16.03 E.]



19.13   Surcharge for Automated Systems for the Department of City
Planning.



19.14   Fees for Enforcement of Housing Covenants.



19.15   Department of Transportation Traffic Study Review, Condition
Clearance and Permit Issuance Fees.



19.16   General Plan Maintenance Surcharge for the Department of City
Planning.



19.17   Park Fee.



19.18   Affordable Housing Linkage Fee.



19.19   Westside Mobility Transportation Fees.



 



 



SEC. 19.00.  FILING OF APPLICATIONS AND APPEALS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 185,432, Eff. 3/24/18.)



 



   A.   Filing Date.  An application or appeal shall be considered as
filed whenever it has been completed in accordance with the applicable rules
and regulations, has been submitted to the Department together with the
required filing fees, and a receipt for the filing fees has been issued.  If
at any time during the processing of an application it is discovered that an
application has been improperly prepared, or required pertinent information
has not been submitted in accordance with the previously established rules
and regulations, upon notification to the applicant by the appropriate
officer or employee the time limits specified within this ordinance shall be
suspended and not continue to run until the application has been rectified or
the omitted information furnished in a proper manner.



 



   B.   Time Limit - Appeals.  Notwithstanding any provisions of
Articles 2, 3 or 4 of this chapter, whenever the final day for filing an
appeal from any action, decision or determination of the Director of
Planning, Zoning Administrator, Area Planning Commission or City Planning
Commission falls on a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, the time for filing
an appeal shall be extended to the close of business on the next succeeding
working day, and the effective or final date of any action, decision or
determination shall be extended to the close of that appeal period.  No
appeal shall be accepted or in any way considered as officially on file which
is not presented in proper form and received within the appeal period
specified by other sections of this chapter or the extended period specified
above in this section.



 



   If in any individual case involving a 15-day appeal period, that appeal
period fails to include at least ten working days, then the appeal period
shall be extended as many days as the Director of Planning, Zoning
Administrator, Area Planning Commission, City Planning Commission or City
Council determines are necessary to include ten working days.



 



   C.   Place of Filing.  Whenever the provisions of Articles 2, 3 or
4 of this chapter provide that applications, requests or appeals be filed
with the City Planning Commission, in the public office of the Department of
City Planning, those applications, requests or appeals may be filed in any of
the branch offices of the Department when designated for this purpose by the
City Planning Commission; that decision to be based upon considerations of
need and available facilities.



 



   D.   Whenever the provisions of this chapter provide that an
applicant shall post notice of a public hearing or meeting, the applicant
shall file a declaration in the appropriate public office prior to the date
of the noticed public hearing or meeting.  In this declaration, the
applicant shall declare, under penalty of perjury, that notice has been
posted in accordance with the applicable provisions of this chapter.



 



   The Director of Planning shall have the authority to adopt guidelines
consistent with this ordinance for the posting of notices if the Director
determines that guidelines are necessary and appropriate.



 



 



SEC. 19.01.  FILING FEE - APPLICATIONS AND APPEALS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 185,432, Eff. 3/24/18.)



 



   Before accepting for filing any application or appeal involving any of
the matters specified in this section, the Department of City Planning shall
charge and collect for each application or appeal the following filing fees:



 



   A.   Establishment or Change of Zones, Height Districts or
Supplemental Use Districts, and Other Related Actions.  The following fees
shall be charged for a zone change, height district or supplemental use
district when that action is consistent with the General Plan.  (See Section
19.03 for zone change requests that are not consistent with the General Plan.)



 



 


Establishment or Change of Zones, Height Districts or Supplemental Use
Districts and Other Related Actions

 

Fee*






Zone Change - No New Construction
(Section 12.32)

 

$11,609




Zone Change - With New Construction
(Section 12.32)

 

$20,229




Clarification of Q Classifications or D Limitations
(Section 12.32 H.)

 

$4,158




Land Use Determinations by CPC
(Section 12.24.1)

 

$1,485




Amendment of Council’s Instructions involving (T) Tentative Classifications
(Section 12.32)

 

$4,637




Height District Change
(Section 12.32)

 

$19,270




Supplemental Use District: Change or Removal
(Section 12.32 S.)

 

$65,680




Supplemental Use District: Establishment
(Section 12.32 S.)

 

$130,708




Conditions of Approval for Oil Drilling
(Section 13.01 H.)

 

$8,811




Zone Boundary Line Adjustment
(Section 12.30 H.)

 

$5,352




Building Line - Establishment, Change or Removal
(Section 12.32)

 

$7,164




Surface Mining Permits
(Section 13.03)

 

$2,410





 



* See Section 19.01 Q. for multiple applications.



 



   B.   Appeal Fees.



 



   1.   Except as expressly provided in Subdivision 2., below, the
following fees shall be charged and collected with the filing of all appeals.



 



   (a)   A fee equal to 85 percent of the total underlying application
fees or $13,538 for first level appeal and $10,243 for additional level
appeals, whichever is less when the appeal is made by the applicant.



 



   (b)   A fee of $89 in the case of an appeal by a person, other than
the applicant, claiming to be aggrieved.



 



   2.   An appeal filed pursuant to Section 12.26 K.2. of this Code
shall be accompanied by a filing fee as specified in Table 4-A of Section
98.0403.2 of the Code, to be collected by the Department.  An appeal filed
pursuant to Section 12.26 K.6. of this Code shall be charged a fee in
accordance with Subdivision 1., above.



 



   3.   An appeal filed pursuant to Section 12.37 of this Code shall be
accompanied by a filing fee in the amount of $1,570, to be collected by the
Department.



 



 


Type of Application

 

Fee




Appeal Fee - Applicant
(first level appeal)

 

$13,538




Appeal Fee - Applicant
(additional level of appeal)

 

$10,243




Person other than the applicant

 

$89




 



   C.   Commission Conditional Uses and Other Similar Quasi-judicial
Approvals and Public Benefit Approvals.



 



 


Type of Application

 

Fee*




Conditional Use by APC or CPC
(Section 12.24 U. and 12.24 V.)

 

$12,633




Public Benefit Project (sign off for by-right project) - Moved to Section
19.04

 

-




Public Benefits Alternative Compliance Proposal
(Section 14.00 B.)

 

$13,064




Modification of Existing CUP by APC or CPC
(Section 12.24 B.)

 

$12,846




Letters of Correction, Modification or Clarification of a determination by a
ZA or the Director initiated by Applicant

 

$1,486




 



* See Section 19.01 Q. for multiple applications.



 



   D.   Variances, Adjustments or Modifications from the Regulations
and Requirements of the Zoning Ordinances.



 



 


Type of Application

 

Fee*




Variance
(Section 12.24 Y. and 12.27)

 

$5,558




Adjustment by Zoning Administrator except Single Family dwelling
(Section 12.28 A.)

 

$5,146




Adjustment by Zoning Administrator for Single Family dwelling
(Section 12.28 A.)

 

$4,322




Slight Modification by Zoning Administrator
(Section 12.28 B.2.)

 

$5,517




Reasonable Accommodation Determination
(Section 12.22 A.27.)

 

N/A




 



* See Section 19.01 Q. for multiple applications.



 



   E.   Zoning Administrator Conditional Uses, Interpretations and
Various Quasi-judicial Approvals.



 



   1.   The following fees shall be charged pursuant to Section 12.24
of this Code to applicants seeking certain permits, interpretations or
approvals:



 



 


Type of Application

 

Fee*






Zoning Administrator Interpretation of Yard or Use Regulations
(Section 12.21 A.2.)

 

$5,591




Conditional Use by Zoning Administrator - Alcohol and Entertainment
(Section 12.24 W.1. and 12.24 W.18.)

 

$6,412




Conditional Use by Zoning Administrator - all other uses
(Section 12.24 W.)

 

$5,660




Modification or Review by Zoning Administrator
(Section 12.24 J., 12.24 L., and 12.24 M.)

 

$5,718




Relief from Fence Height Limitation
(Section 12.24 X.7., 12.24 X.8., and 12.28)

 

$5,434




Child Care less than or equal to 50 children in the R-3 zone or Large Family
Daycare
(Section 12.24 X.)

 

$4,281




Certified Farmers’ Market
(Section 12.24 X.6.)

 

$2,495




Service of Alcohol in a small restaurant less than or equal to 50 seats
(Section 12.24 X.2.)

 

$3,787




Approval to Erect Amateur Radio Antenna
(Section 12.24 X.3.)

 

$2,320




Zoning Administrator Determination under Section 12.24 X. unless listed
separately
(Section 12.24 X.)

 

$5,476





 



* See Section 19.01 Q. for multiple applications.



 



   2.   A fee shall be charged pursuant to Section 12.24 B.1. of this
Code to applicants seeking a conditional use permit that requires a
consultation with the Department for preliminary project review.  See
Section 19.09.



 



   3.   The following fees shall be charged pursuant to Sections 12.24
F. and 12.24 Z.2. of this Code for costs associated with permit clearance,
condition compliance monitoring and inspections conducted by the City, and
revocation proceedings:



 



 


Type of Application

 

Fee




Miscellaneous Sign-Off - Zoning Administrator
(moved to Section 19.04)

 

-




Miscellaneous Sign-Off - Zoning Administrator Single Family Dwellings with No
Exceptions
(moved to Section 19.04)

 

-




Monitoring of Conditional Use Permits
(Sections 12.24 F., 12.24 M., 12.24 W., 12.24 X.)

 

$952




Field Verification Prior to Operations
(Sections 12.24 F., 12.24 M., 12.24 W., 12.24 X.)

 

$253




Inspection and Field Compliance Review of Operations
(Sections 12.24 F., 12.24 M., 12.24 W., 12.24 X.)

 

$746




Revocation, Suspension or Restriction Proceedings for Non-Compliance of
Conditions (Deposit)
(Section 12.24 Z.)

 

$5,000




 



The Planning Department shall calculate actual costs and the resultant fee in
accordance with Section 5.121.9.2, Chapter 6 of Division 5 of the Los Angeles
Administrative Code, and shall maintain appropriate accounting records of the
actual costs.  The Director of Planning shall resolve any dispute related to
the fee.  The Director shall exclude from consideration any cost incurred or
attributed to the processing of appeals.



 



   F.   Fees for Historic Related Applications.



 



 


Type of Application

 

Fee*






HPOZ: Establishment, Change or Removal
(Section 12.20.3) [1]

 

$127,191




HPOZ Preservation Plan

 

$31,606




HPOZ Certificate of Appropriateness: not involving new construction or
additions
(Section 12.20.3)

 

$1,279




HPOZ Certificate of Appropriateness or Compatibility: for additions to
existing square footage, up to 750 square feet

 

$1,336




HPOZ Certificate of Appropriateness or Compatibility: for additions to
existing square footage, 750 square feet or greater, or second story additions
(Section 12.20)

 

$1,710




Historic Preservation Overlay Zone (HPOZ) Certificate of Appropriateness or
Compatibility: for new residential construction, 1 to 4 units
(Section 12.20)

 

$2,198




HPOZ Certificate of Appropriateness or Compatibility: for new residential
construction, 5 units or more
(Section 12.20)

 

$2,600




HPOZ Certificate of Appropriateness or Compatibility: for new commercial and
mixed use construction, up to 5,000 square feet
(Section 12.20)

 

$2,198




HPOZ Certificate of Appropriateness or Compatibility: for new commercial and
mixed use construction, 5,000 square feet or greater
(Section 12.20)

 

$2,600




HPOZ Certificate of Appropriateness or Compatibility: for new accessory
building construction
(Section 12.20)

 

$1,336




Historic Resources Building Permit Clearance (Larger Project)
(Section 12.20)

 

$1,077




APC/DEM (Historic) demolition of main structure

 

$8,380




Mills Act Application - Part 1 - City Application Processing Fee
(LAAC Section 19.144) [2]

 

$650




Mills Act Application - Part 2 - City Contract Execution Processing Fee
(LAAC Section 19.144) [2]

 

-




City Administrative Fee

 

$1,142




Mills Act Contract - Inspection - Contract Services Provider (Charged at
actual cost)
(LAAC Section 19.144) [2]

 

$1,654




Mills Act Application (Valuation Exemption)
(LAAC Section 19.144)

 

-




City Administrative Fee

 

$766




Contract Services Provider (Charged at Actual Cost) [2]

 

$1,500




Mills Act Application (Appeal to Cultural Heritage Commission)
(LAAC Section 19.144)

 

$1,532




Mills Act Inspection (once every 5 years) [2]

 

-




City Administrative Fee

 

$575




Mills Act Contract - Inspection - Contract Services Provider (Charged at
actual cost)
(LAAC Section 19.144)

 

$1,500




Technical Corrections to previously certified Historic Resource (Applicant
Initiated) [1]

 

$2,490




Historic Resources - Environmental Impact Report Review - (hourly)

 

$192




Major Conforming Work on Contributing and Non-Contributing Elements

 

$460




Modification of a Certificate Determination

 

$575




Preliminary Evaluation of Demolition or Relocation without Permit
(Section 12.20 Q.)

 

$9,195





 



* See Section 19.01 Q. for multiple applications.



 



[1]   HPOZ fees are not to be charged for technical corrections to a
previously certified Historic Resource Survey.



[2]   Fees reflect pass through of average contractor costs.



 



   G.   Commission or Director Approvals.  (Amended by Ord. No.
186,325, Eff. 11/11/19.)



 



 


Type of Application

 

Fee*






Project Permit Compliance, Design Overlay Plan Approvals or other
Director’s Determination (DIR) cases - Minor
(Section 11.5.7 and 11.5.14 and Article 3, Ch. 1)

 

$1,619




Project Permit Compliance, Design Overlay Plan Approvals or other DIR cases -
Standard
(Section 11.5.7 and 11.5.14 and Article 3, Ch. 1)

 

$4,326




Project Permit Compliance, Design Overlay Plan Approvals or other DIR cases -
Standard (Single Family)
(Section 11.5.7 and 11.5.14 and Article 3, Ch. 1)

 

$3,782




Project Permit Compliance, Design Overlay Plan Approvals or other DIR cases -
Major
(Section 11.5.7 and 11.5.14 and Article 3, Ch. 1)

 

$6,500




Project Permit Compliance, Design Overlay Plan Approvals or other DIR cases -
Major (Single Family)
(Section 11.5.7 and 11.5.14 and Article 3, Ch. 1)

 

$6,500




Project Permit Compliance with Design Review Board - Minor
(Section 11.5.7 and 11.5.14 and Article 3, Ch. 1)

 

$2,842




Project Permit Compliance with Design Review Board - Standard
(Section 11.5.7 and 11.5.14 and Article 3, Ch. 1)

 

$6,500




Project Permit Compliance with Design Review Board - Standard (Single Family)
(Section 11.5.7 and 11.5.14 and Article 3, Ch. 1)

 

$2,500




Project Permit Compliance with Design Review Board - Major
(Section 11.5.7 and 11.5.14 and Article 3, Ch. 1)

 

$8,403




Project Permit Compliance with Design Review Board - Major (Single Family)
(Section 11.5.7 and 11.5.14 and Article 3, Ch. 1)

 

$7,859




Design Review Board - Preliminary
(Section 16.50 E.3.)

 

$4,482




Design Review Board - Preliminary for single- family residential dwelling
(Section 16.50 E.3.)

 

$1,827




Project Permit Modification
(Section 11.5.7 D. and 11.5.14)

 

$4,482




Project Permit Adjustment
(Section 11.5.7 E. and 11.5.14)

 

$4,890




Specific Plan Exception
(Section 11.5.7 F.)

 

$14,350




Specific Plan Amendment (Section 11.5.7),
Redevelopment Plan Amendment
(Section 11.5.14)

 

$21,227




Specific Plan Interpretation
(Section 11.5.7)

 

$2,921





 



* See Section 19.01 Q. for multiple applications.



 



   The following definitions shall be used in the categories for Project
Permit Compliance:



 



   Minor cases are defined as three signs or less or a change of use.



 



   Standard cases are defined as more than three signs, wireless cases, or
projects with additions of less than 200 square feet.



 



   Major cases are all other projects not falling into the categories of
Minor or Standard projects.



 



   H.   Fees - Exceptions.  The fees as provided for in this section
shall be subject to the following exceptions:



 



   1.   The fees contained in this section shall apply to the City
departments of Airports, Harbor, and Water and Power, but shall not apply to
any other governmental agency.



 



   2.   No fee shall be required in connection with an application for
variance from the minimum lot area requirements of an improved lot, or on
appeal from a ruling on the variance application, where it is shown that the
lot neither conformed with the minimum lot area requirements at the time of
issuance of the original building permit nor constituted a nonconforming lot.



 



   3.   No fee shall be required in connection with an application,
appeal, or approval of plans for a conditional use for a child-care facility
or nursery school which is determined to be nonprofit, including, but not
limited to, parent-cooperatives and facilities funded by a governmental
agency or owned or operated by a philanthropic institution, church, or
similar institution.  A facility funded by a governmental agency shall
indicate the principal current and anticipated source of funds.  Where any
uncertainty exists as to the nonprofit status of the facility, the applicant
shall file a copy of the articles of incorporation or an affidavit, to the
satisfaction of a Zoning Administrator, showing that the child-care facility
will be nonprofit.



 



   4.   No fee shall be required in connection with an application,
appeal or approval of plans for a conditional use or variance for a nonprofit
counseling and referral facility.



 



   5.   At the discretion of the appropriate decision-maker, an
applicant for any determination for which fees are required by this section
may be allowed credit for the fees paid upon a reapplication for the same
project under a different procedure when the decision-maker finds:



 



   (a)   That the applicant made a good-faith attempt to file the
application properly; and



 



   (b)   That the application could be more appropriately approved if
filed under a different procedure.



 



   This subdivision shall not be construed to allow credit to be given at
the applicant’s option, nor to allow refunds of any fees paid on the
original application.



 



   6.   No fee shall be required in connection with an initial
application for continuation of a nonconforming use made pursuant to Section
12.24 X.27. of this Code.



 



   7.   Where an exception from a specific plan and a variance or
conditional use or other similar quasi- judicial approval are both required
for a project, the lower of the fees charged for the exception and variance,
conditional use or other similar quasi-judicial approval shall be waived.



 



   8.   No fee shall be required in connection with an initial
application for a site plan review for a project within a designated
Enterprise Zone or Employment and Economic Incentive Zone.



 



   9.   In addition to the fees set forth in this article, the
Department of City Planning may negotiate with an applicant for reimbursement
of the actual costs associated with the City’s processing of applications
involving extraordinary projects which require unusually heavy commitments of
department resources but not involving major projects as that term is defined
in Los Angeles Administrative Code Section 5.400.



 



   I.   Transfer Plan.



 



 


Type of Application

 

Fee*




Approval of Transfer of Floor Area Plan - less than and including 49,999
square feet
(Article 4.5)

 

$16,090




Approval of Transfer of Floor Area Plan - 50,000 square feet or greater
(Article 4.5)

 

$19,107




 



* See Section 19.01 Q. for multiple applications.



 



   J.   Extension of Time or Suspension of Time Limits for Planning and
Zoning Matters.



 



 


Type of Application

 

Fee




Time Extension for other than Maps

 

$336




 



   K.   Adult Entertainment Business Exception.



 



 


Type of Application

 

Fee*




Adult Entertainment Business Exception within 500 feet of another Adult
Entertainment Establishment
(Section 12.22 A.20.)

 

$7,308




 



* See Section 19.01 Q. for multiple applications.



 



   M.   Density Increase.



 



 


Type of Application

 

Fee*




Application for a Density Bonus including a request for one or more
Incentives included in the Menu of Incentives
(Section 12.22 A.25.(g)(2))

 

$7,282




Application for a Density Bonus including a request for an Incentive not
included in the Menu of Incentives
(Section 12.22 A.25.(g)(3))

 

$21,227




Application for a Density Bonus in excess of that permitted by Section 12.22
A.26.
(Section 12.24 U.26.)

 

$21,227




 



* See Section 19.01 Q. for multiple applications.



 



   N.   Modifications or Discontinuance of Use Pursuant to Nuisance
Abatement Proceedings.  (Amended by Ord. No. 185,931, Eff. 7/1/19.)



 



 


Type of Application

 

Fee




Home-Sharing Administrative Hearing
(Section 12.22 A.32.)

 

$20,000




Imposition of Conditions (City Initiated)
(Section 12.27.1)

 

$58,354




Modification (Applicant Initiated)
(Section 12.27.1)

 

$48,182




Plan Approval for Revocation Case
(Section 12.27.1)

 

$48,182




 



   In addition to the initial deposit for plan approval for revocation
cases set forth in this section, fees shall be paid for the actual costs
associated with the plan approval process.



 



   The Planning Department shall calculate the actual costs and resultant
fee, in accordance with Section 5.403 (b)3. of Chapter 35 of Division 5 of
the Los Angeles Administrative Code, and shall maintain appropriate
accounting records of the actual costs.  The Director of Planning shall
resolve any dispute related to the fee.  The Director shall exclude from
consideration any cost incurred or attributed to the processing of appeals.



 



   O.   Site Plan Review.



 



 


Type of Application

 

Fee*




Site Plan Review Application for Residential Project of 50 or more dwelling
units
(Section 16.05)

 

$9,014




For Non-Residential or Mixed Use Building Site Plan Review Application
(Section 16.05)

 

$9,014




 



* See Section 19.01 Q. for multiple applications.



 



   P.   Hillside.  Application pursuant to Section 12.21 A.17. of this
Code to permit increased Lot coverage, reduced parking or additional height
for One-Family Dwellings on properties designated Hillside Area on the
Department of City Planning Hillside Area Map (Section 12.24 X.11.); and
application to permit construction of or addition to One-Family Dwellings on
properties designated Hillside Area on the Department of City Planning
Hillside Area Map which front onto Substandard Hillside Limited Streets,
which are improved to a width of less than 20 feet; and application to permit
construction of, or addition to, One-Family Dwellings on properties
designated Hillside Area on the Department of City Planning Hillside Area Map
on Substandard Hillside Limited Streets where providing parking requires the
Grading of 1,000 or more cubic yards from the Lot (Section 12.24 X.21.).



 



   Application pursuant to Section 12.21 C.10. and Section 12.24 X.28. on
properties zoned R1, RS, RE, or RA and designated Hillside Area on the
Department of City Planning Hillside Area Map to:



 



   1.   Reduce Front and Side Yard setback requirements;



 



   2.   Permit additions of up to 1,000 square feet to Structures
existing prior to August 1, 2010;



 



   3.   Exceed the maximum envelope height;



 



   4.   Increase the maximum Lot coverage;



 



   5.   Exceed the Grading, import and export limits;



 



   6.   Reduce the number of required off-street parking; or



 



   7.   Permit construction of or addition to One-Family Dwellings on
properties which front onto Substandard Hillside Limited Streets, which are
improved to a width of less than 20 feet.



 



 


Type of Application

 

Fee



Hillside Permit Filing Fee
(Section 12.24 X.21.)
 

$5,660




 



   Q.   Multiple or Combination Applications.  If more than one
application is filed at the same time for the same project and the fee for
each separate application is set forth in Sections 19.01, 19.03, 19.06 or
19.10, then the charges will be as follows:  one hundred percent (100%) for
the highest application fee, fifty percent (50%) for the second application
(second highest fee), and twenty-five percent (25%) for each additional
application fee.



 



   R.   Expedited Permit Fee.  At the request of the applicant, the
Department may, at its discretion, charge a fee to offset expenses for
additional human and physical resources necessary to expedite the permit
process for development projects upon application by an applicant.  An
initial deposit of up to $8,500, in addition to fees charged elsewhere in
this Code, by the Director of Planning, including any additional costs to the
City that exceed the fees collected by the Planning Department for this
service, shall be collected at the time of the request.  The Department
shall cause all money collected pursuant to this section to be deposited into
the Planning Case Processing Fund described in Section 5.121.9.2 of Chapter
6, Division 5 of the Los Angeles Administrative Code for purposes of
disbursement as permitted therein.



 



 


Type of Application

 

Fee




Expedited Review Services (hourly)

 

$219




 



   S.   Eldercare Facility Unified Permit Application.



 



 


Type of Application

 

Fee*




Eldercare Facility Unified Permit Application


(Section 14.3.1)
 

$7,442




 



* See Section 19.01 Q. for multiple applications.



 



   T.   Home-Sharing Registration Application Fee.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 185,931, Eff. 7/1/19.)



 



 


Type of Application

 

Fee




Home-Sharing Application or Renewal
(Section 12.22 A.32.)

 

$89




Extended Home-Sharing Administrative Clearance
(Section 12.22 A.32.)

 

$850




Extended Home-Sharing Discretionary Review Application
(Section 12.22 A.32.)

 

$5,660




Extended Home-Sharing Renewal
(Section 12.22 A.32.)

 

$850




 



 



SEC. 19.02.  FILING FEES - DIVISION OF LAND AND PRIVATE STREET MAPS AND
APPEALS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 185,432, Eff. 3/24/18.)



 



   The following fees and charges shall be paid to the Department, except
as otherwise specified here, in connection with the following:



 



   A.   Subdivision Maps.



 



   1.   Tentative Map.



 



   (a)   Single-Family Residential Dwellings:



 



   (1)   RE40 or More Restrictive Zones:



 



 


Type of Application

 

Fee




Tentative Map - SF RE40 or More Restrictive Zones - 5-10 Lots

 

$9,779




Tentative Map - SF RE40 or More Restrictive Zones - 11-49 Lots

 

$11,097




Tentative Map - SF RE40 or More Restrictive Zones - Each Set of 50 Lots over
49 Lots (additional)

 

$4,013




 



   (2)   RE20 or Less Restrictive Zones:



 



 


Type of Application

 

Fee




Tentative Map - SF RE20 or Less Restrictive Zones - 5-10 Lots

 

$8,790




Tentative Map - SF RE20 or Less Restrictive Zones - 11-49 Lots

 

$9,779




Tentative Map - SF RE20 or Less Restrictive Zones - Each Set of 50 Lots over
49 Lots (additional)

 

$3,354




 



   (b)   Multi-Family Residential Dwellings:



 



 


Type of Application

 

Fee




Tentative Map - MF Residential - 5-49 Units

 

$9,721




Tentative Map - MF Residential - 50-99 Units

 

$13,043




Tentative Map - MF Residential - 100 Units or More

 

$16,502




 



   (c)   Commercial/Industrial:



 



   (1)   With Building:



 



 


Type of Application

 

Fee




Tentative Map - Commercial/Industrial w/ Building - Less than 50,000 square
feet of Floor Area

 

$11,097




Tentative Map - Commercial/Industrial w/ Building - 50,000-99,999 square feet
of Floor Area

 

$12,744




Tentative Map - Commercial/Industrial w/ Building - 100,000-249,999 square
feet of Floor Area

 

$14,391




Tentative Map - Commercial/Industrial w/ Building - 250,000 square feet of
Floor Area or More

 

$16,039




 



   (2)   Without Building:



 



 


Type of Application

 

Fee




Tentative Map - Commercial/Industrial w/o Building - Less than 1 Acre

 

$10,108




Tentative Map - Commercial/Industrial w/o Building - 1 to Less than 5 Acres

 

$11,097




Tentative Map - Commercial/Industrial w/o Building - 5 Acres or More

 

$12,085




 



   (d)   Phasing of Map.  For each request for the Advisory Agency to
approve the recording of a final map which covers only a portion of the
property shown on an approved tentative map pursuant to the provisions of
Section 17.07 B. of this Code, a fee of $6,978.



 



   (e)   Very High Fire Hazard Severity Zone.  For tentative maps
within Very High Fire Hazard Severity Zones, as described in Section 57.4908
of this Code, a surcharge of one-half the sum of the fees paid pursuant to
Paragraphs (a) through (c) shall be paid.



 



   (f)   Mixed Use.  Where the project involves a combination of
Single-Family, Multi-Family, Commercial and/or Industrial uses, the highest
fee, including modifications to the base fee, shall be charged at one hundred
percent (100%), the second highest at fifty percent (50%), and the third and
subsequent fee at twenty-five percent (25%).  This fee discounting shall not
apply to the surcharge required by Paragraph (e) of this subdivision.



 



   (g)   Bureau of Engineering Fees.  In addition to the fees imposed
pursuant to the provisions of this subdivision, before acceptance for
examination by the City Engineer, the Bureau of Engineering shall charge and
collect for each application the following nonrefundable fees applicable to
the project for which the application is made:



 



   (1)   For each subdivision tract of fewer than 20 lots, a fee of
$8,240.  For each modified or revised subdivision tract of fewer than 20
lots requiring a revised engineering report, a fee of $1,854.



 



   (2)   For each subdivision tract of 20 or more lots, actual Bureau
of Engineering costs and a deposit for such costs as determined and collected
pursuant to the provisions of Section 61.15 of this Code.  For each modified
or revised subdivision tract of 20 or more lots requiring a revised
engineering report, a fee of $1,854.



 



   2.   Final Map.



 



   (a)   Before acceptance for examination by the City Engineer, the
Bureau of Engineering shall charge and collect for each application the
following nonrefundable fees that apply to the project for which the
application is made:



 



   (1)   For each subdivision tract of fewer than 20 lots, a fee of
$8,240.



 



   (2)   For each subdivision tract of 20 or more lots, actual Bureau
of Engineering costs and a deposit for such costs as determined and collected
pursuant to the provisions of Section 61.15 of this Code.



 



   (3)   For each airspace subdivision, actual Bureau of Engineering
costs and a deposit for such costs as determined and collected pursuant to
the provisions of Section 61.15 of this Code.



 



   (b)   For each subdivision that is located entirely or partly within
a Very High Fire Hazard Severity Zone as determined pursuant to the
provisions of Section 57.4908 of this Code, the Bureau of Engineering shall
charge and collect a surcharge in the amount of fifty percent of the fee
imposed pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph (a) of this subdivision.



 



   (c)   In addition to the fee and surcharge imposed pursuant to the
provisions of Paragraphs (a) and (b) of this subdivision, the Bureau of
Engineering shall charge and collect a resubmission fee of $824 for each and
every map or any part of a map submitted to the City Engineer more than three
times, including the original submission, and the fee shall be paid to the
Bureau of Engineering upon each and every submission to the City Engineer
thereafter.



 



   (d)   In addition to all other fees charged pursuant to the
provisions of this subdivision, if a final map is filed for the purpose of
reverting subdivided land to acreage or for merger and re-subdivision of land
pursuant to the provisions of Section 17.10 or 17.10.1 of this Code, the
Bureau of Engineering shall charge and collect a fee of $2,549.



 



   3.   Improvement Plans.  Engineering, checking and inspection fees
shall be deposited with the City in accordance with the provisions of
Sections 62.109 and 62.110 of this Code.



 



   4.   Appeals.  Each appeal of a tentative or final map shall be
accompanied by the payment of a fee pursuant to Section 19.01 B.



 



   5.   Modifications.  Each request for a modification of an approved
Tentative Map or Recorded Final Map shall be accompanied by the payment of
the appropriate fee indicated in Section 19.02 F.



 



   B.   Parcel Maps.



 



   1.   Preliminary Parcel Map.



 



   (a)   Residential Dwellings, up to 4 Lots:



 



 


Type of Application

 

Fee




Preliminary Parcel Map - Residential Dwellings, up to 4 Lots - SF, RE40 or
More Restrictive Zones

 

$13,095




Preliminary Parcel Map - Residential Dwellings, up to 4 Lots - SF, RE20 or
Less Restrictive Zones

 

$11,282




Preliminary Parcel Map - Residential Dwellings, up to 4 Lots - Multi-Family

 

$14,520




 



   (b)   Commercial/Industrial, up to 4 Lots:



 



   (1)   With Building:



 



 


Type of Application

 

Fee




Preliminary Parcel Map - Commercial/Industrial (w/Building), up to 4 Lots -
Less than 50,000 square feet of Floor Area

 

$10,953




Preliminary Parcel Map - Commercial/Industrial (w/Building), up to 4 Lots -
50,000 to Less than 100,000 square feet of Floor Area

 

$12,600




Preliminary Parcel Map - Commercial/Industrial (w/Building), up to 4 Lots -
100,000 to Less than 250,000 square feet of Floor Area

 

$14,577




Preliminary Parcel Map - Commercial/Industrial (w/Building), up to 4 Lots -
250,000 square feet of Floor Area or More

 

$15,895




 



   (2)   Without Building:



 



 


Type of Application

 

Fee




Preliminary Parcel Map - Commercial/Industrial (w/o Building), up to 4 Lots -
Less than 1 Acre in Area

 

$9,965




Preliminary Parcel Map - Commercial/Industrial (w/o Building), up to 4 Lots -
1 to Less Than 5 Acres in Area

 

$10,953




Preliminary Parcel Map - Commercial/Industrial (w/o Building), up to 4 Lots -
5 Acres or More in Area

 

$11,941




 



   (c)   Other Parcel Map Actions:



 



 


Type of Application

 

Fee




Parcel Map Exemption (Lot Line Adjustment)
(Section 17.50 B.3.)

 

$3,474




Parcel Map Waiver
(Section 17.50 B.3.(d))

 

$3,474




 



   (d)   Very High Fire Hazard Severity Zone.  For preliminary parcel
maps within the Very High Fire Hazard Severity Zones, as described in Section
57.4908 of this Code, a surcharge of one-third the sum of the fees paid
pursuant to Paragraphs (a) and (b) shall be paid.



 



   (e)   Mixed Use.  Where the project involves a combination of
Single-Family, Multi-Family, Commercial and/or Industrial uses, the highest
fee, including modifications to the base fee, shall be charged at one hundred
percent (100%), the second highest at fifty percent (50%), and the third and
subsequent fee at twenty-five percent (25%).  This fee discounting shall not
apply to the surcharge required by Paragraph (d) of this subdivision.



 



   (f)   Bureau of Engineering Fees.  In addition to the fees imposed
pursuant to the provisions of this subdivision, before acceptance for
examination by the City Engineer, the Bureau of Engineering shall charge and
collect for each application the following nonrefundable fees applicable to
the project for which the application is made:



 



   (1)   For each map, a fee of $8,240.



 



   (2)   For each modified or revised map requiring a revised
engineering report, a fee of $824.



 



   (3)   For each parcel map exemption, a fee of $1,262.



 



   2.   Certificate or Conditional Certificate of Compliance.  A fee
of $3,375 shall be paid for each determination of the Advisory Agency with
respect to a certificate or conditional certificate of compliance pursuant to
California Government Code Section 66499.35.  The above fee shall be waived
when the Advisory Agency has approved a division of land and collected a fee
without the requirement of a final map being filed with the County
Recorder.  In every case, the applicant shall also pay a fee equal to the
amount required by law for recording any certificate or conditional
certificate of compliance issued in connection with the decision.  Before
acceptance for examination by the City Engineer, the Bureau of Engineering
shall charge and collect a fee of $1,262 for the review and processing of
each application for a Certificate of Compliance.



 



 


Type of Application

 

Fee




Certificate or Conditional Certificate of Compliance - Determination

 

$3,375




 



   3.   Final Parcel Map.



 



   (a)   Before acceptance for examination by the City Engineer, the
Bureau of Engineering shall charge and collect a nonrefundable fee of $8,240
for each final parcel map submitted, except for airspace parcel maps.  For
each airspace parcel map application submitted, the Bureau of Engineering
shall charge actual Bureau of Engineering costs and a deposit for such costs
as determined and collected pursuant to the provisions of Section 61.15 of
this Code.



 



   (b)   For each subdivision that is located entirely or partly within
a Very High Fire Hazard Severity Zone as determined pursuant to the
provisions of Section 57.4908 of this Code, the Bureau of Engineering shall
charge and collect a surcharge in the amount of fifty percent (50%) of the
fee imposed pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph (a) of this subdivision.



 



   (c)   In addition to the fee and surcharge imposed pursuant to the
provisions of Paragraphs (a) and (b) of this subdivision, the Bureau of
Engineering shall charge and collect a resubmission fee of $824 for each and
every map or any part of a map submitted to the City Engineer more than three
times, including the original submission, and the fee shall be paid to the
Bureau of Engineering upon each and every submission to the City Engineer
thereafter.



 



   (d)   In addition to all other fees charged pursuant to the
provisions of this subdivision, if a final map is filed for the purpose of
reverting subdivided land to acreage or for merger and re-subdivision of land
pursuant to the provisions of Section 17.10 or 17.10.1 of this Code, the
Bureau of Engineering shall charge and collect a fee of $1,854.



 



   (e)   Before acceptance for examination by the City Engineer, the
Bureau of Engineering shall charge and collect a fee of $1,262 to review and
process each application for a final map waiver requested pursuant to the
provisions of Section 17.50 D. of this Code.



 



   4.   Appeals.  Each appeal of a parcel map shall be accompanied by
the payment of a fee pursuant to Section 19.01 B.



 



   5.   Modifications.  Each request for a modification of an approved
Preliminary Map or Recorded Final Map shall be accompanied by the payment of
the appropriate fee indicated in Section 19.02 F.



 



   C.   Private Street Map.



 



 


Type of Application

 

Fee




Deemed to be Approved Private Street
(Section 18.00 C.)

 

$3,210




Private Street Map

 

$13,589




Very High Fire Hazard Severity Zone Private Street Map

 

$20,013




 



   1.   In the event the person plotting or dividing land as lots or
building sites pursuant to Article 8 of this chapter shall elect to subdivide
land in accordance with Article 7 of this chapter within one year from the
filing date of the private street map, the fees required and paid under this
subsection may be applied against the payment of the fees required by
Subsection A. of this section.



 



   2.   For each request for modification of the requirements governing
private streets pursuant to the provisions of Section 18.12 of this Code, a
fee of $3,168 shall be paid.  For each and every lot or building site shown
on a private street map, excepting the lots or building sites as are shown at
the request of the City Engineer to facilitate the description of the land to
be acquired by condemnation proceedings, a fee of $56 shall be paid.



 



   3.   Before acceptance for examination by the City Engineer, the
Bureau of Engineering shall charge and collect for each private street map
application a fee of $6,304, and shall charge and collect for each modified
or revised street map application requiring a revised engineering report a
fee of $630.



 



   D.   Mobile Home Park Impact Reports.



 



 


Type of Application

 

Fee




Mobile Home Park Impact Report
(Section 17.04)

 

$11,920




 



   1.   If no request for hearing is filed within the time periods set
forth in Section 47.09 D.5. of this Code, upon written demand by park
management, a refund of $5,229 shall be made to park management.



 



   E.   Condominium Conversion for Subdivision and Parcel Maps.



 



   1.   Residential Dwellings:



 



   (a)   Filing Fee.



 



 


Type of Application

 

Fee




1 to 4 Units

 

$13,589




5 to 49 Units

 

$16,192




50 to 99 Units

 

$19,750




100 Units or More

 

$22,320




 



   (b)   For the approval of any relocation assistance plan required by
Section 12.95.2 F.6., a fee of $177.



 



   2.   Commercial/Industrial:



 



 


Type of Application

 

Fee




Less than 50,000 Square Feet of Floor Area

 

$11,777




50,000 to Less Than 100,000 Square Feet of Floor Area

 

$12,600




100,000 to Less Than 250,000 Square Feet of Floor Area

 

$13,424




250,000 Square Feet of Floor Area or More

 

$14,248




 



   3.   Mixed Use:  Where the project involves a combination of
Residential, Commercial, and/or Industrial uses, the highest fee shall be
charged at one hundred percent (100%), the second highest at fifty percent
(50%), and the third and subsequent fee at twenty-five percent (25%).  This
fee discounting shall not apply to the fee required by Section 19.02 E.1.(b)
of this Code.



 



   F.   Map Related Fees.



 



 


Type of Application

 

Fee




Review of Revision of Tentative/Preliminary Map

 

$2,543




Modification to Approved Tentative/Preliminary Map or Recorded Final Map
(Section 17.14, 17.59)

 

$7,324




Reversion to Acreage
(Section 17.10)

 

$7,653




Quimby Fee Calculation (per instance)

 

$405




Time Extension for Maps

 

$1,064




Letter of Clarification or Correction (initiated by Applicant)

 

$2,876




 



 



SEC. 19.03.  FEES FOR GENERAL PLAN CONSISTENCY.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 185,432, Eff. 3/24/18.)



 



   The following fees shall be charged when a zone change is requested by
an applicant that necessitates the initiation of a General Plan Amendment to
achieve consistency between the requested zone change and the General Plan:



 



 


Type of Application

 

Fee*




Zone Change and associated costs for a General Plan Amendment for less than
400 dwelling units, 500,000 square feet for commercial/industrial, or 250,000
square feet for mixed use
(Section 11.5.6)

 

$25,004




Zone Change and associated costs for a General Plan Amendment for 400
dwelling units or greater, 500,000 square feet or greater for
commercial/industrial, or 250,000 square feet or greater for mixed use
(Section 11.5.6)

 

$28,299




Annexation, Zone Change and associated costs for a General Plan Amendment
less than 400 dwelling units, 500,000 square feet for commercial/industrial,
or 250,000 square feet for mixed use
(Section 11.5.6)

 

$83,938




Annexation, Zone Change and associated costs for a General Plan Amendment for
400 dwelling units or greater, 500,000 square feet or greater for
commercial/industrial, or 250,000 square feet or greater for mixed use
(Section 11.5.6)

 

$85,471




Street Re-Classification

 

$12,884




 



* See Section 19.01 Q. for multiple applications.



 



 



SEC. 19.04.  FEES FOR SIGN-OFF REQUESTS.



   (Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 185,432, Eff. 3/24/18.)



 



   The following fees and charges shall be paid to the City Planning
Department in connection with sign off requests:



 



 


Type of Application

 

Fee*






Public Benefit Project (sign off for by-right project)

 

$1,437




Miscellaneous Sign off - ZA
(Section 12.24 and all other projects)

 

$2,155




Miscellaneous Sign off - ZA SF dwellings with no exceptions
(Section 12.24 and all other projects)

 

$2,155




Request for Approval to erect temporary Subdivision Directional Signs (First
Sign)

 

$287




Request for Approval to erect temporary Subdivision Directional Signs (Each
Additional Sign)

 

$287




Miscellaneous sign off - Director

 

$1,245




Miscellaneous sign off - Commission

 

$2,251




Landscape Plan Approval as part of a Discretionary Approval

 

$766




Landscape per tract

 

$862




Building Permit Sign Off for Minor Projects

 

$238





 



* See Section 19.01 Q. for multiple applications.



 



   A.   Multiple or Combination Applications.  If more than one
application is filed at the same time for the same project and the fee for
each separate application is set forth in Sections 19.01, 19.03, 19.06 or
19.10, then the charges will be as follows:  one hundred percent (100%) for
the highest application fee, fifty percent 50% for the second application
(second highest fee), and twenty-five (25%) for each additional application
fee.



 



   B.   Development Plans.  Each final development plan for a
residential planned development filed with the City Planning Commission for
its report and recommendation subsequent to the application for the
establishment of an RPD District shall be accompanied by a filing fee of $190
plus $1.60 for each acre or portion of an acre shown on the plan.



 



   C.   Modification of Plans or Conditions.  Each request to the City
Planning Commission for its report and recommendations on modifications of an
approved final development plan in an RPD District or of a condition imposed
on a residential planned development shall be accompanied by a filing fee of
$251.



 



 



SEC. 19.05.  FILING FEES FOR ENVIRONMENTAL CLEARANCES.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 185,432, Eff. 3/24/18.)



 



   A.   Fees.  For the processing of each initial study prepared or
environmental impact report (EIR) filed in connection with a permit
application, or for the processing of any supplemental report or for the
preparation of a general exemption pursuant to City CEQA Guidelines, the
following fees shall be paid to the appropriate City departments at the time
the permit application is filed or the supplemental report or general
exemption is prepared or processed:



 



   1.   Environmental Clearances Except EIRs:



 



 


Type of Application

 

Fee




Categorical Exemption

 

$373




Environmental Assessment Form (EAF) / Initial Study leading to Negative
Declaration or Mitigated Negative Declaration or any other State exemptions

 

$5,774




Mitigated Negative Declaration - Expanded/Initial Study

 

$11,134




Addendum or Supplemental to Prior Environmental Determination

 

$1,909




Publication Fee for Negative Declaration or Mitigated Negative Declaration
(pass through of publishing costs)

 

$676




 



   2.   Environmental Impact Reports:



 



   (a)   Initial Deposit is required at the time of an Environmental
Impact Report application.



 



 


Type of Application

 

Fee




Environmental Impact Reports (Initial Deposit)

 

$11,000




Environmental Impact Report Review Services (hourly)

 

$192




 



   (b)   Supplemental EIR.  A fee of one-half the original filing
deposit shall be paid for the processing of any report supplemental to the
environmental impact report.



 



   (c)   EIR Full Cost Recovery.  In addition to the fees set forth in
this section, fees shall be paid for the actual costs associated with the
City’s preparation and processing of an environmental impact report, and
processing of applications for all discretionary approvals associated with it
by hourly rate above.



 



   (d)   For purposes of this section, any discretionary approval
related to the use of land where an environmental impact report is required
include the following: adjustment; building line; coastal development permit;
conditional use; parcel map; plan approval; private street; adoption,
amendment or repeal of a specific plan pursuant to Subsection (b) of
Government Code Section 65456; any approval which is required to be
consistent with a specific plan pursuant to Subsection (a) of Government Code
Section 65456; subdivision map, zone change, including zone changes pursuant
to Section 11.5.8 of this Code; and variance.  The actual costs shall be
offset by the fees collected pursuant to this chapter.



 



   The Planning Department shall calculate the costs and resultant fee, at
the hourly rate in this section, in accordance with Section 5.403 (b)3. of
Chapter 35 of Division 5 of the Los Angeles Administrative Code and shall
maintain appropriate accounting records of the actual costs.  The Director
of Planning shall resolve any dispute related to the fee.  The Director
shall exclude from consideration any cost incurred or attributed to the
processing of appeals.



 



   The processing of an initial study is not required as a prerequisite to
the filing of an environmental impact report.



 



   B.   Child-Care Fees.  No fee shall be charged in connection with
the processing of an initial study or filing of an environmental impact
report for any child care facility or nursery school which is determined to
be nonprofit, including but not limited to parent cooperatives and facilities
funded by a governmental agency or owned or operated by a philanthropic
institution, church, or similar institution.  A facility funded by a
governmental agency shall indicate the primary current and anticipated source
of funds.



 



   Where any uncertainty exists as to the nonprofit status of the
facility, the applicant shall file a copy of the articles of incorporation or
an affidavit showing, to the satisfaction of a Zoning Administrator, that the
child care facility will be nonprofit.



 



 



SEC. 19.06.  FILING FEES FOR COASTAL DEVELOPMENT PERMITS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 185,432, Eff. 3/24/18.)



 



   A.   Filing Fees.  In addition to any other fees set forth in this
Code, the following fees shall be charged and collected by the permit
granting authority in connection with the filing of all applications for
coastal development permits:



 



 


Type of Application

 

Fee*






Coastal Development Permit for Single Family and Multi-family residential
dwelling
(Section 12.20.2)

 

$13,753




Coastal Development Permit for Single Family residential dwelling with no
exceptions
(Section 12.20.2)

 

$13,753




Coastal Development Permit for Non-residential
(Section 12.20.2)

 

$13,753




Coastal Development Permit Exemption Determination
(Section 12.20.2.1)

 

$1,437




Coastal Development Permit Approval in Concept
(Section 12.20.2)

 

$575




Coastal Development Permit Amendment for Single Family and Multi-family
residential dwelling and non-residential
(Sections 12.20.2.1 Q. and 12.20.2 O.)

 

$5,517




Coastal Development Permit Amendment for Single Family residential dwelling
with no exceptions
(Sections 12.20.2.1 Q. and 12.20.2 O.)

 

$5,517




Coastal Development Permit - Mello Compliance Review - City Review
(Section 12.20.2)

 

$6,547




Mello Compliance Review - Third Party Consultant

 

$287 + Actual Cost





 



* See Section 19.01 Q. for multiple applications.



 



   1.   Fee is for City administration and Consultant fees will be
added to City fee for permit requiring Mello Compliance Review.



 



   2.   The Planning Department shall calculate actual costs and the
resultant fee in accordance with Section 5.121.9.2, Chapter 6 of Division 5
of the Los Angeles Administrative Code, and shall maintain accounting records
of the actual costs.  The Director of Planning shall resolve any dispute
related to the fee.  The Director shall exclude from consideration any cost
incurred or attributed to the processing of appeals.



 



   B.   Filing Fees for Environmental Impact Reports and Negative
Declarations.  Where an environmental impact report or negative declaration
is prepared for a project for which application for a coastal development
permit has been made, a negative declaration or environmental impact report
shall consider the effect of the project in light of the criteria established
in Sections 12.20.2 G.1.(a) through (e) of this Code, and no additional
charge shall be made.  Where the underlying project is otherwise exempt from
the preparation of a negative declaration or environmental impact report but
either document is required for the coastal development permit, those fees
set forth in Section 19.05 of this Code shall be applicable and shall be
collected by the appropriate permit granting authority.



 



 



SEC. 19.07.  FEES FOR FLOOD HAZARD REPORTS AND COMPLIANCE CHECKS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 185,432, Eff. 3/24/18.)



 



   A.   Basic Review Fee.  Except for services subject to the
provisions of Subsection B. or C. of this section, the Bureau of Engineering
shall charge and collect a fee of $273 to perform each of the following
services pertaining to Flood Hazard compliance:



 



   1.   Flood Hazard Compliance Check Fee.  Review to verify that a
permitted project would or does comply with the requirements of the Los
Angeles Specific Plan for the Management of Flood Hazards (Ordinance 172,081,
as may be amended) and the National Flood Insurance Program.



 



   2.   Elevation Certificate Processing Fee.  Process an Elevation
Certificate for building permits located in floodplain zones, in compliance
with the requirements of the Los Angeles Specific Plan for the Management of
Flood Hazards (Ordinance 172,081, as may be amended) and the National Flood
Insurance Program.



 



   3.   Floodproofing Certificate Processing.  Process a Floodproofing
Certificate for a commercial project or a non-single-family development
proposed in a floodplain zone, in compliance with the requirements of the Los
Angeles Specific Plan for the Management of Flood Hazards (Ordinance 172,081,
as may be amended) and the National Flood Insurance Program.



 



   4.   Letter of Map Change/Conditional Letter of Map Change
Processing.  Process a Conditional Letter of Map Revision, Conditional
Letter of Map Amendment, Letter of Map Revisions, or Letter of Map Amendment.



 



   B.   Reviews or Services Requiring Additional Staff Time of 16 or
Fewer Hours.  For all Bureau of Engineering services identified in
Subsection A. of this section for which a fee of $273 is charged, and which
will require Bureau staff to review plans or surveys, or take other action in
addition to that normally required to accomplish the task for which the $273
fee is charged, the Bureau shall charge and collect a fee pursuant to the
provisions of Section 61.14 of this Code, except for reviews or services
provided pursuant to the provisions of Subsection C. of this section.



 



   C.   Reviews or Services Requiring Additional Staff Time of More
than 16 Hours.  For all Bureau of Engineering services identified in
Subsection A. of this section for which a fee of $273 is charged, and which
will require Bureau staff to review plans or surveys, or take other action,
and where Bureau staff will be required to provide more than 16 hours of
staff time in addition to that normally required to accomplish the task for
which the $273 fee is charged, the Bureau shall charge and collect actual
Bureau of Engineering costs and a deposit for such costs as determined and
collected pursuant to the provisions of Section 61.15 of this Code.



 



   D.   All Fees Owed Prior to Bureau Action.  The Bureau of
Engineering shall not issue any approval or decision with respect to any
matter for which this section requires payment to the Bureau until all monies
owed pursuant to the provisions of this section are paid.



 



 



SEC. 19.08.  SURCHARGE FOR DEVELOPMENT SERVICES CENTERS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 185,432, Eff. 3/24/18.)



 



   A.   There shall be added to each fee imposed for any permit,
license, or application provided for in this article, a surcharge in an
amount equal to the greater of three percent (3%) of the fee or $1.00.



 



   B.   The previous surcharge amount of two percent is increased
solely to pay for the $21.76 million cost of developing and implementing
BuildLA, a comprehensive enterprise-wide development services system, and
shall not be used to pay for ongoing BuildLA costs, such as maintenance or
system hosting services.



 



   C.   The surcharge shall be returned to the greater of two percent
or $1.00 when the City Administrative Officer determines the surcharge
increase has recovered the $21.76 million cost of BuildLA.



 



 



SEC. 19.09.  PROJECT DEVELOPMENT AND COUNSELING SERVICES.



   (Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 185,432, Eff. 3/24/18.)



 



 


Type of Application

 

Fee






Pre-Application Review and Research
(Section 12.24)

 

$383




Zoning Pre-Check (per project, per request)

 

$1,149




Pre-development Meeting

 





   Per meeting

 

$1,724




   Additional assistance as required, per hour

 

$287




   Technical Counseling (per meeting)

 

$862




Project Navigation Services (deposit required, per hour)

 





   Project not requiring EIR

 

$287




   Project including EIR

 

$287





 



 



SEC. 19.10.  DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT FEES.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 185,432, Eff. 3/24/18.)



 



 


Type of Application

 

Fee



Initial Development Agreement Deposit
(Section 12.32)
 

$29,690




 



   In addition to the fees set forth above, the City may negotiate with
the applicant for reimbursement of the actual costs to City associated with
administering the development agreement.  The actual costs assessed shall be
offset by the fees collected as indicated in the table above.



 



 



SEC. 19.11.  ANNUAL INSPECTION OF COMPLIANCE WITH FLOOR AREA RATIO AVERAGING
AND RESIDENTIAL DENSITY TRANSFER COVENANTS.



   (Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 182,451, Eff. 4/4/13.)



 



   A fee of $300.00 shall be charged and collected by the Department of
Building and Safety to cover the cost of an annual inspection to monitor
compliance with, and maintain records of, the covenant required pursuant to
Sections 12.24 B.25. and 12.24 C.58. of this Code prior to July 1, 2000, and
Section 12.24 W.19. of this Code on and after July 1, 2000.



 



 



SEC. 19.12.  [DEVIATIONS PURSUANT TO SECTION 16.03 E.]



   (Amended by Ord. No. 180,191, Eff. 10/23/08.)



 



   Applicants for determinations by the Zoning Administrator for
deviations pursuant to Section 16.03 E. of this Code shall pay a fee of
$797.00.



 



 



SEC. 19.13.  SURCHARGE FOR AUTOMATED SYSTEMS FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF CITY
PLANNING.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)



 



   A.   Operating Surcharge.  There shall be added to each fee imposed
for any permit, plan check, license or application provided for in Chapter I
of this Code a surcharge in an amount equal to the greater of 7 percent of
the fee or $1.00, except that any other surcharge shall be excluded from the
computation of this surcharge.  Moneys received from this surcharge shall be
deposited and maintained in the City Planning Systems Development Fund
pursuant to Los Angeles Administrative Code Section 5.457 for the maintenance
and operation of automated systems.  Exempted from this surcharge are all
fees and costs imposed pursuant to Section 12.37.



 



   B.   Development Surcharge.  There shall be added to each fee
imposed for any permit, plan check, license or application provided for in
Chapter I of this Code an automated systems development surcharge in an
amount equal to the greater of 6 percent of the fee or $1.00, except that any
other surcharge shall be excluded from the computation of this surcharge. 
Moneys received from this surcharge shall be deposited into the City Planning
Systems Development Fund pursuant to Los Angeles Administrative Code Section
5.457.  Exempted from this surcharge are all fees and costs imposed pursuant
to Section 12.37.  (Amended by Ord. No. 176,489, Eff. 4/13/05.)



 



 



SEC. 19.14.  FEES FOR ENFORCEMENT OF HOUSING COVENANTS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 184,654, Eff. 1/16/17.)



 



   (a)   Unless a fee Exemption pursuant to Section 19.14(b) applies,
the following fees shall be charged and collected by the Los Angeles Housing
and Community Investment Department (Department) for the preparation,
enforcement, monitoring, and associated work relating to the affordable
housing covenants described in Sections 12.22 A.25.(h)(1) through (3), 12.22
A.29.(d)(1) through (2), and 14.00 A.10.(c)(2) of this Code.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 184,907, Eff. 5/17/17.)



 



 

Type of Service:
 
Fee:


Housing Replacement Determinations pursuant to AB 2222
 
$1,027.00 per unit


Affordable Housing Covenant Preparation
 
$5,770.00* per project


Affordable Housing Covenant Amendments
 
$5,770.00 per amendment


Affordable Housing Covenant Assumptions and Terminations
 
$1,214.00 per assumption or termination


Affordable Housing Covenant Monitoring
 
$173.00* per restricted unit, per year


Filing Fee
 
$43.00* per project



 



   (b)   Fee Exemption:  New projects subject to an affordable housing
covenant described in Section 19.14(a) wherein at least 50% of the units are
restricted for use as permanent supportive housing shall be exempt from the
fees above marked with an asterisk.



 



   (c)   Any owner or landlord of a project subject to an existing
affordable housing covenant in effect prior to the effective date of the fees
set forth in Section 19.14(a) and which contains a conflicting monitoring fee
amount, shall be subject to the fee set forth in the existing covenant.



 



   (d)   The fees in Section 19.14(a) shall be fully due and payable at
the time of the request for service, except for the affordable housing
monitoring fees, which may be paid pursuant to the options set forth in
Section 19.14(e).



 



   (e)      (e)   The affordable housing covenant monitoring fees
may be pre-paid in full at or before the time of the recording of an
underlying affordable housing covenant or billed annually to an owner or
landlord upon the issuance of the Certificate of Occupancy for the project
subject to an underlying affordable housing covenant.  (Amended by Ord. No.
184,907, Eff. 5/17/17.)



 



   (f)   The Department shall have the right to bring legal action in
any court to collect the amount of any outstanding fees.  The Department may
make such rules and regulations as may be necessary to carry out the
provisions of this section.



 



 



SEC. 19.15.  DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION TRAFFIC STUDY REVIEW, CONDITION
CLEARANCE AND PERMIT ISSUANCE FEES.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 183,270, Eff. 12/15/14.)



 



   (a)   Fees. The following specific fees shall be paid to the
Department of Transportation (Department) for the preparation and processing
of traffic reports, clearance of conditions and permit sign-offs in
connection with obtaining any environmental clearance and/or permit issuance
related tasks.



 



   (1)   Building Permit Sign Offs (Note 1)..........$365



 



   (2)   Dedication & Widening Waivers..........$445



 



   (3)   Department Referral Form (Note 2)..........$430



 



   (4)   Driveway Permit Sign Offs (Note 3)..........$535



 



   (5)   Haul Route Review..........$420



 



   (6)   Master Plan / Complex Circulation Review (Note
4)..........$1,595



 



   (7)   Project Condition Clearance (Note 5)..........$270



 



   (8)   Revocable Permit..........$205



 



   (9)   Street Vacation Requests..........$965



 



   (10)   Subdivision Report..........$205



 



   (11)   TDM Compliance / Trip Monitoring Report Review..........$770



 



   (12)   Technical Study (Note 6)..........$1,340



 



   (13)   Traffic Study MOU..........$1,175



 



   (14)   Traffic Study Review (Note 7)..........$7,480



 



   (15)   Traffic Study Review / Plan Review - Expedited..........See
Subsection (c)



 



   (16)   Worksite Traffic Control Plan Review (non
B-permit)..........$1,645



 



   Note 1: For a project with multiple addresses and permits (i.e.,
multi-family units), $365 should be charged per distinct site plan and not
per unit. For example: if, for a 100 unit small lot subdivision condominium
project, each unit falls into one of three different site plan options, then
the Department review fee should be $1,110 ($370 X 3) even if there are 100
separate building permits to approve.



 



   Note 2:  The Department Referral Form may also be submitted to the
Department in the form of an Initial Site Assessment Form or a Site Plan
Review Form. If this is the case, the Department Referral Form fee still
would apply.



 



   Note 3: When reviewing a Building Permit application that also includes
a Driveway Permit Sign Off, the applicant should not be charged two fees
(Building Permit and Driveway Permit). Instead, the applicant should be
charged only the Building Permit fee if the driveway plan does not include a
new curb cut. If the driveway plan does include a new curb cut, then the
applicant only should be charged the Driveway Permit Sign-Off fee.



 



   Note 4: This fee applies to Master Plan type developments or large
scale projects with complicated circulation plans that require considerable
staff time to help applicant arrive at an acceptable access and circulation
plan.



 



   Note 5: $270 for the first three condition clearances plus $200 for
each additional condition clearance.



 



   Note 6: A "technical study" can include technical memorandums (defined
in LADOT's Traffic Study Guidelines), trip generation assessments, traffic
study supplements, shared parking analyses, etc. The fee includes the cost to
process a study MOU, if required.



 



   Note 7: $7,480 for the first ten study intersections plus $400 per each
additional study intersection, not to exceed a total of $25,000.



 



   Special Note: If a project is approved by LADOT through the subdivision
clearance or building permit process and the applicable fees have been paid,
future approvals will not require additional fees as long as there have been
no substantial changes to the approved portion of the project.



 



   (b)   Transportation Review Fee Fund. Each fee collected pursuant to
this section shall include a five percent surcharge to be deposited into the
Transportation Review Fee Fund No. 50Y. This fund shall be used exclusively
by the Department to provide funding for the continual enhancement of
development review related information technology systems and for procurement
costs associated with equipment, software, materials, staff training and, if
needed, consultant services. With the exception of the five percent surcharge
deposited into the Transportation Fee Fund No. 50Y, the remaining 95 percent
fees collected shall be credited to the General Fund.



 



   (c)   Expedited Services. The Department shall offer expedited
services in the review of traffic studies or the review of B-permit design
plans. Project applicants can choose to pay a higher review fee to allow
Department staff to work overtime hours to expedite their review. The actual
review fee to process a traffic study, which will be greater than the
standard traffic study review fee, will be determined by the Department
during the preparation of the Traffic Study Memorandum of Understanding
executed between the Department and the applicant's representative. The fee
established shall be based on the applicant's desired completion date, the
availability of staff to work overtime and the affected division's case
workload. During times of peak workloads, the expedited review fee may be
utilized by the Department to procure an outside firm from the Department's
pre-screened list of consultants to conduct the review of the study.
Similarly, the actual fee to process B-permit design plans shall be
established by the Department at the pre-design meeting with the applicant's
representative.



 



   (d)   Fee Revisions. The Department shall provide an annual review
of the fees established pursuant to this section, and shall submit
recommendations for changes in these fees for special services to the
Council. The fees shall be revised by the Department to account for any staff
salary cost of living adjustments. Notice of a revision in fees shall be in
accordance with California Government Code Sections 66018 and 6062a, which
require that prior to adoption of a new or increased fee a public hearing be
held and notice of that hearing be published in a newspaper with two
publications at least five days apart over a ten-day period. The notice
period begins the first day of publication, and there must be at least five
days intervening between the first and second publications, not counting the
dates of publication.



 



 



SEC. 19.16.  GENERAL PLAN MAINTENANCE SURCHARGE FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF CITY
PLANNING.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 185,114, Eff. 9/17/17.)



 



   There shall be added to each fee imposed for any permit, plan check,
license or application, provided in Chapter I of this Code, a surcharge in an
amount equal to the greater of 7 percent of the fee or $1.00, except that any
other surcharge shall be excluded from the computation of this surcharge. 
Monies received from this surcharge shall be deposited into the Department of
City Planning Long-Range Planning Special Revenue Trust Fund.  The monies
received pursuant to this section shall be used for maintenance of the City's
General Plan and all associated underlying plans or elements, ordinances, and
other associated planning initiatives.  Fifty percent of the monies
received, after the effective date of this ordinance, shall be used for costs
directly related to updating the City's 35 Community Plans.  Exempted from
this surcharge are all fees and costs imposed pursuant to Section 12.37.



 



 



SEC. 19.17.  PARK FEE.



   (Added by Ord. No. 184,505, Eff. 1/11/17.)



 



   The following fees shall be paid to the Department of Recreation and
Parks. Current figures are located in the Department of Recreation and Parks
Rate and Fee Schedule.



 



   Subdivision (Quimby in-lieu) fee:



 



   At effective date of ordinance:  $7,500, adjusted for inflation
pursuant to Section 12.33 E.5. of this Code.



 



   First annual RAP rate and fee schedule update after effective date of
ordinance:  The prior year's fee amount plus $2,500, adjusted for inflation
pursuant to Section 12.33 E.5. of this Code.



 



   Each subsequent annual RAP rate and fee schedule update:  The fee of
the previous year, adjusted for inflation pursuant to Section 12.33 E.5. of
this Code.



 



   Non-subdivision (park mitigation) fee:



 



   At effective date of ordinance:  $2,500, adjusted for inflation
pursuant to Section 12.33 E.5. of this Code.



 



   First annual RAP rate and fee schedule update after effective date of
ordinance:  The prior year's fee amount plus $2,500, adjusted for inflation
pursuant to Section 12.33 E.5. of this Code.



 



   Each subsequent annual RAP rate and fee schedule update:  The fee of
the previous year, adjusted for inflation pursuant to Section 12.33 E.5. of
this Code.



 



 



SEC. 19.18.  AFFORDABLE HOUSING LINKAGE FEE.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,342, Eff. 2/17/18.)



 



   A.   Definitions.  Terms shall have the meaning ascribed to them in
Sections 12.03 or 12.22 of this Code.  For the purposes of this section
only, certain terms and words are defined as follows:



 



   1.   "Additional Housing Units" means a net increase in the number
of dwelling units or guest rooms to be added on a parcel or parcels of land
by issuance of a building permit, after subtracting the number of dwelling
units or guest rooms legally removed from the same parcel of real property
during the year preceding the issuance of the building permit.



 



   2.   "Additional Nonresidential Floor Area" means the net increase
in the amount of nonresidential Floor Area, as defined in Section 12.03 of
this Code, to be added on a parcel or parcels of land by issuance of a
building permit, less the amount of nonresidential Floor Area legally removed
from the same parcel of real property during the year preceding the issuance
of the building permit.



 



   3.   "Applicant" means any individual, person, firm, partnership,
association, joint venture, corporation, limited liability company, entity,
combination of entities or authorized representative thereof, who undertakes,
proposes or applies to the City for a Planning or zoning entitlement approval
or building permit related to a Development Project.



 



   4.   "Building Permit Application" means plans submitted to the
Department of Building and Safety pursuant to Section 12.26 A.3. of this Code.



 



   5.   "Development Project" means any activity involving or requiring
the issuance of a building permit that results in Additional Housing Units,
Additional Nonresidential Floor Area, additional single-family residential
Floor Area, or a change of use from nonresidential to residential.



 



   6.   "Grocery Store" means a project that is for a retail use of
which greater than one half of the Floor Area is devoted to the sale of food
items intended for consumption or use off the premises, excluding alcoholic
beverages.



 



   7.   "Linkage Fee" means the fee assessed, pursuant to this section,
on certain Development Projects in order to mitigate the impact of the
additional demand for affordable housing caused by such activity.



 



   B.   Applicability.  The regulations, requirements and provisions
of this section shall apply to any Development Project.  Unless a
Development Project is exempt from this section, an Applicant must pay to the
City the required Linkage Fee as a condition of the building permit for which
a Building Permit Application has been submitted in order to mitigate the
need for affordable housing that is generated by or attributable to such
projects.  The provisions of this section are subject to the requirements
set forth in California Government Code Section 66000, et seq.



 



   1.   Phased Implementation.



 



   a.   For the first 120 days following the effective date of this
ordinance, no Linkage Fee shall be imposed on any project for which a
Building Permit Application or complete planning or zoning entitlement
application is submitted.  For purposes of this Section, a complete planning
or zoning entitlement application is an application that has been accepted by
the Department of City Planning and for which the application fees have been
paid.  If an Applicant submitted a Building Permit Application or a complete
planning or zoning entitlement application for a Development Project prior to
the effective date of this ordinance, that Development Project shall not be
subject to a Linkage Fee.



 



   b.   An Applicant for a Development Project who submits a Building
Permit Application or a complete Planning or zoning entitlement application
(whichever is first) 121 days following the effective date of this ordinance
shall pay one-third of the total Linkage Fee amount due, based on the fee
schedule and market area maps in effect at the time of the submittal of the
Building Permit Application or complete Planning or zoning entitlement
application.



 



   c.   An Applicant for a Development Project who submits a Building
Permit Application or a complete Planning or zoning entitlement application
(whichever is first) 306 days after the effective date of this ordinance
shall pay two-thirds of the total Linkage Fee amount due, based on the fee
schedule and market area maps in effect at the time of the submittal of the
Building Permit Application or complete Planning or zoning entitlement
application.



 



   d.   An Applicant for a Development Project who submits a Building
Permit Application or a complete planning or zoning entitlement application
(whichever is first) 485 days or more after the effective date of this
ordinance shall pay the total Linkage Fee amount due, based on the fee
schedule and market area maps in effect at the time of the submittal of the
Building Permit Application or complete Planning or zoning entitlement
application.



 



   2.   Exemptions. The Department of Building and Safety shall
determine whether any of the following exemptions apply to a Development
Project based on documentation submitted by the Applicant prior to the
issuance of the building permit.  The fee imposed by this section shall not
apply to construction that includes any the following:



 



   a.   Less than 15,000 square feet of Additional Nonresidential Floor
Area in any nonresidential building, other than parking garages and parking
facilities, as determined by the Department of Building and Safety.



 



   b.   Any for-sale or rental housing development containing
restricted affordable units where at least 40% of the total units or guest
rooms are dedicated for moderate income households, or at least 20% of the
total units or guest rooms are dedicated for low income households, or at
least 11% of the total units or guest rooms are dedicated for very low income
households, or at least 8% of the total units or guest rooms are dedicated
for extremely low income households, for at least 55 years, where a covenant
has been made with the Housing and Community Investment Department (HCIDLA)
and required covenant and monitoring fees have been paid.  Such a covenant
shall also subject projects using this exemption to the replacement policies
in Government Code Section 65915(c)(3), as that section may be amended from
time to time, and to HCIDLA fees related to housing replacement
determinations pursuant to state law, as set forth in this Code.  For the
purposes of this section, total units includes any units added by a density
bonus or other land use incentive, consistent with the affordability levels
defined in Government Code Section 65915, as that section may be amended from
time to time.



 



   c.   Any Development Project being constructed by, or on behalf
of:  1) a government or public institution such as a school, museum,
homeless shelter or other similar projects that are intended for community
use; or 2) any private Elementary and/or High School.



 



   d.   Any hospital.  For purposes of this section, "hospital" means
a facility, place, or building that is organized, maintained, and operated
for the diagnosis, care, prevention, and treatment of human illness, physical
or mental, including convalescence and rehabilitation and including care
during and after pregnancy, or for any one or more of these purposes, for one
or more persons, to which the persons are admitted for a 24-hour stay or
longer.



 



   e.   A single-family detached home meeting one or more of the
following conditions:



 



   (1)   Any addition of 1,500 square feet or less of Floor Area to an
existing single-family detached home located in a single-family or
multiple-family zone.



 



   (2)   New construction of any single-family detached home located in
a single-family zone that is 1,500 square feet or less of Floor Area.



 



   (3)   Any replacement of a single-family detached home resulting in
a net increase of 1,500 square feet or less of Floor Area from the prior home
that existed on the property.



 



   f.   Either (1) an addition of 1,501 square feet or more of Floor
Area to an existing single-family detached home located in a single-family
zone, or (2) a replacement of a single-family detached home resulting in a
larger single-family detached home with a net increase of 1,501 square feet
or more of Floor Area from the prior home that existed on the property;
provided, however, in either event, a covenant shall be recorded against the
property prior to the issuance of a building permit for such addition or
replacement requiring the owner of the property to pay the Linkage Fee if the
home is sold within three years of the issuance of such building permit. 
The covenant shall automatically expire at the end of such three-year period,
if no sale of the property has occurred during such three-year period. 
However, in the event of a sale of the property within such three-year
period, the covenant shall not expire until a notice of covenant termination
is recorded.  A notice of covenant termination shall be provided by the City
upon full payment of Linkage Fee due, based on the fee schedule in effect at
the time of payment.  The covenant shall run with the land and bind all
successive owners of the property until the Linkage Fee is fully paid.



 



   g.   An Accessory Dwelling Unit as defined by California Government
Code Section 65852.2.



 



   h.   Any residential floor area of a project located within the
boundaries of the Central City West Specific Plan Area, as defined in
Ordinance No. 163,094, if the Applicant agrees by covenant and agreement with
the City or by development agreement to abide by the replacement and
inclusionary housing obligations set forth in the Specific Plan for the
Central City West Area.  (Amended by Ord. 186,370, Eff. 12/10/19.)



 



   i.   A residential project that is subject to a greater affordable
housing fee requirement or is required to provide one or more physical
housing units pursuant to the Mello Act in order to satisfy its inclusionary
housing obligations.  In that case, the residential component of the project
shall be exempt from the Linkage Fee requirements of this Section. 
Nonresidential portions of mixed-use Coastal Zone projects shall be analyzed
separately from residential portions of mixed-use projects for the purposes
of the Linkage Fee requirements of this section.  Nonresidential portions of
such projects shall be subject to this section.  The provision of housing
units or in-lieu fees to satisfy replacement housing obligations under the
Mello Act (as opposed to inclusionary housing obligations) shall not exempt a
project from the Linkage Fee requirements of this section.



 



   j.   A residential Development Project that is subject to affordable
housing requirements pursuant to any land use policy or ordinance or
development agreement that exceeds the Linkage Fee requirements of this
section in either fee amount or on-site affordable housing percentages
provided in paragraph 19.18 B.2.b.



 



   k.   A residential Development Project that is subject to affordable
housing and labor requirements pursuant to LAMC Section 11.5.11.



 



   l.   Any Grocery Store, provided there is no existing Grocery Store
within a one-third (1/3) mile radius of the Development Project site.



 



   m.   Any Adaptive Reuse Project that is a designated
Historic-Cultural Monument and is being converted to a residential use.



 



   n.   Any nonresidential Floor Area within a Development Project that
is located in the South Los Angeles Transit Empowerment Zone, also referred
to as the "Slate-Z" Promise Zone Area, located in Low Market Areas according
to the nonresidential area map.  This exemption shall only apply to
Development Projects for which a Building Permit Application or complete
planning or zoning entitlement application is submitted within three years of
the effective date of this ordinance.  This exemption will no longer be
valid three years after the effective date of this ordinance.



 



   3.   Protests, Adjustments and Waivers.



 



   a.   An Applicant may protest the imposition of the Linkage Fee and
request that the requirements of this section be adjusted or waived pursuant
to Government Code Section 66020, et seq., based on a showing that the
application of the requirements of this section would effectuate an
unconstitutional taking of property or otherwise have an unconstitutional
application to the Development Project.  Protests shall be filed with the
Director.



 



   b.   On or before the date on which payment of the Linkage Fee is
due, the Applicant shall pay the amount required by this section and serve a
written notice to the Director with all of the following information: (1) a
statement that the required payment is tendered, or will be tendered when
due, under protest; and (2) a statement informing the Director of the factual
elements of the dispute and the legal theory forming the basis for the
protest or request for adjustment or waiver, along with the substantial
evidence that supports the protest or request, including any supporting
documentation.  The protest must be filed at the time of approval or
conditional approval of the Development Project or within 90 days after the
imposition of the Linkage Fee.  The City shall provide the Applicant with
written notice as required by Government Code Section 66010(d)(1), as that
section may be amended from time to time.



 



   c.   If the Director determines that application of the requirements
of this section would effectuate an unconstitutional taking of property or
otherwise have an unconstitutional application to a Development Project, the
fee requirements shall be adjusted or waived to reduce the obligations under
this section to the extent necessary to avoid an unconstitutional result. 
The Director shall render a decision within 75 days from the date the protest
was received.



 



   d.   If an adjustment or waiver is granted, any change in the
Development Project shall invalidate the adjustment or waiver.  If the
Director determines that no violation of the federal or state constitution
would occur through application of this section, the requirements of this
section shall remain fully applicable.



 



   e.   Failure of an Applicant to comply with the protest requirements
of this Section or Government Code Section 66020, et seq., shall bar that
Applicant from any action or proceeding or any defense of invalidity or
unreasonableness of the imposition of the Linkage Fee.



 



   C.   Fee Calculation.



 



   1.   The City Council shall adopt, by resolution, a Linkage Fee
schedule based on an analysis of the cost of mitigating the impact of the
additional demand for affordable housing caused by Development Projects, and
on the varying levels of economic feasibility in different geographic areas
of the City based on current market conditions.  The City Council shall also
adopt, by resolution, a map or maps establishing the respective market areas
throughout the City that inform the amount of the Linkage Fee to be assessed
for a given Development Project.



 



   2.   For each Development Project, the Linkage Fee shall be
calculated as the amount of new or added Floor Area in the Development
Project devoted to the uses described in the Linkage Fee schedule, as
determined by the Department of Building and Safety, multiplied by the amount
of the applicable fee, as found in the most recent Linkage Fee schedule
adopted by City Council, at the time the building permit for the Development
Project is issued, minus any deductions or credits.



 



   3.   Fee Adjustments and Reports.



 



   a.   Annual Inflation Adjustment.  The Linkage Fee shall be
adjusted annually for inflation beginning on July 1, 2018, by the Director in
accordance with the latest change in year-over-year Consumer Price Index for
Urban Consumers (CPI-U) for the Los Angeles-Riverside-Orange County area, or
if such index ceases to be published, by an equivalent index chosen by the
Director.  An updated Linkage Fee schedule shall be maintained by the
Department of City Planning, which shall provide a copy of the adjusted
schedule to the Mayor and City Council each year.



 



   b.   Five-Year Market Area Adjustment.  Every five years, beginning
on July 1, 2018, the Director, in association with HCIDLA shall undertake a
new market area analysis and adjust market areas and geographies, where
necessary, to reflect the most up to date rental and sales price information
for each of the market areas.  Any change to the Linkage Fee schedule other
than the Annual Inflation Adjustment described in Paragraph (a) above shall
be adopted by resolution of the City Council.



 



   4.   Deductions or Credits.



 



   a.   Change of Use.  If the Development Project is the result of a
change of use from nonresidential to residential, the Linkage Fee to be paid
is the result of subtracting the equivalent fee amount that either was paid
or would have been paid, based on the pre-existing use, from the fee amount
required to be paid for the new use based on the most recent Linkage Fee
schedule approved by the City Council.  Deductions or credits shall not be
applied to any portion of a Development Project comprised of additional Floor
Area resulting from new construction.  The calculation of a deduction or
credit shall not result in a refund to an Applicant or be applied as a credit
to another Development Project in a different location.



 



   b.   Affordable Housing Units.  Any Restricted Affordable Units as
defined in Section 12.22 A.25. of this Code may be subtracted from the total
number of dwelling units or guest rooms in a building in determining the
required Linkage Fee.



 



   c.   Mixed Use. The first 15,000 square feet of nonresidential use
in a mixed-use building shall be excluded from the calculation of Floor Area
for the purposes of determining the required Linkage Fee.



 



   d.   Transfer of Floor Area Rights.  Any additional Floor Area that
is obtained by a Development Project through the provision of public benefit
payments pursuant to LAMC Section 14.5.9 shall be excluded from the
calculation of Floor Area for purposes of determining the Linkage Fee for the
Development Project.



 



   e.   Other Affordable Housing Requirements.  In calculating Floor
Area for purposes of determining the Linkage Fee for a Development Project,
the following shall be excluded from that calculation:



 



   (1)   the Floor Area of the residential portion of a mixed-use
Development Project that is subject to affordable housing requirements
pursuant to any land use policy or ordinance or development agreement that
exceeds the Linkage Fee requirements of this section in either fee amount or
on-site affordable housing percentages provided in paragraph 19.18 B.2.b.



 



   (2)   the Floor Area of the residential portion of a mixed-use
Development Project that is subject to affordable housing and labor
requirements pursuant to LAMC Section 11.5.11.



 



   f.   Land Dedication.  If the Housing and Community Investment
Department accepts, on behalf of the City, an offer by an Applicant to
dedicate land offsite from the proposed location of the Development Project
for the purpose of building affordable housing, the value of the land to be
dedicated, to be determined as the average of two independent appraisals
funded by the applicant, may be deducted from the Linkage Fee amount owed for
the Applicant's Development Project.  If the value of the dedicated land is
more than the Linkage Fee owed for the Applicant's Development Project, the
City shall bear no responsibility for the difference in value, nor shall that
overage be applied as a credit to any future Development Project.



 



   5.   Payment of Linkage Fee.  The Linkage Fee is due and payable by
the Applicant prior to the issuance of a building permit for a Development
Project. No additional fee shall be required for a project seeking an
extension of an expired building permit.



 



   6.   Refunds of Linkage Fee.  Any fee paid under the provisions of
this section may be refunded to an Applicant if the application for the
building permit has expired and was not utilized to begin construction of a
Development Project.



 



   D.   Severability. If any provision of this ordinance is found to be
unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction,
that invalidity shall not affect the remaining provisions of this ordinance,
which can be implemented without the invalid provisions and, to this end, the
provisions of this ordinance are declared to be severable.  The City Council
hereby declares that it would have adopted each and every provision and
portion thereof not declared invalid or unconstitutional, without regard to
whether any portion of the ordinance would subsequently be declared invalid
or unconstitutional.



 



 



SEC. 19.19.  WESTSIDE MOBILITY TRANSPORTATION FEES.



   (Added by Ord. No. 186,105, Eff. 6/28/19.)



 



   A.   Purpose.  This ordinance is intended to adopt the
Transportation Improvement Assessment Fee (TIA Fee), TIA Fee Credits, TIA Fee
exemptions, and TIA Fee Improvement list authorized in the West Los Angeles
Transportation Improvement and Mitigation Specific Plan (WLA TIMP) and the
Coastal Transportation Corridor Specific Plan (CTCSP).



 



   B.   Definitions.  Terms in this ordinance shall be as defined in
Section 4 of the WLA TIMP and the CTCSP, unless as provided otherwise herein.



 



   C.   Fee Schedule.



 



   1.   TIA Fee Amounts.



 



   a.   The TIA Fee for each land use category shall be as provided in
the TIA Fee Table below, where:



 



   i.   The unit of measurement is provided in the "Unit" column, "DU"
refers to Dwelling Unit, and "SF" refers to square feet;



 



   ii.   The amount of TIA Fee per unit of measurement is provided in
the "TIA Fee per Unit" column;



 



   iii.   The definition of the land use category is provided in the
"Description" column; and,



 



   iv.   The term "Interpolate" refers to the mathematical definition
of "interpolate."  For retail uses greater than 250,000 square feet but less
than or equal to 800,000 square feet, the TIA Fee per Unit shall be
determined by interpolating between the other retail fee rates provided in
the table.  For office uses greater than 50,000 square feet but less than or
equal to 250,000 square feet, the TIA Fee per Unit shall be determined by
interpolating between the other office fee rates provided in the table.



 



TIA Fee Table



 



 

Land Use Category
 

Unit

 

TIA Fee per Unit

 

Description





Residential Land Uses



Single Family

 

DU

 

$8,847

 

Single family detached homes on individual lots, including homes created
though Small Lot Subdivisions.



Apartment
 

DU

 

$4,646

 

Multi-family rental units in a building 10 stories or less.



High-Rise Apartment
 

DU

 

$2,804

 

Multi-family rental units in a building with more than 10 stories.



Condominium/Townhouse
 

DU

 

$6,248

 

Multi-family units with individual ownership in buildings 10 stories or less.



High-Rise
Condominium/Townhouse
 

DU

 

$3,044

 

Multi-family units with individual ownership in buildings more than 10
stories.



Affordable Dwelling Unit
 

DU

 

$0

 

Affordable Dwelling Unit as defined in Section 4 of the WLA TIMP and the
CTCSP.



Hotel
 

Room

 

$5,452

 

A use that provides sleeping accommodations and supporting facilities for
short-term occupancy.



Retail & Service Land Uses


Retail = < 250,000 SF
 

1,000 SF

 

$13,347

 

Less than or equal to 250,000 SF of general retail uses, based on total
square footage of retail uses on site. Retail uses are those uses typically
found in shopping centers, and neighborhood centers, including but not
limited to grocery stores, restaurants, and general retail shops.



Retail > 250,000 SF - 800,000 SF
 

1,000 SF

 

Interpolate

 

More than 250,000 SF but less than 800,000 SF of retail uses, as defined
above, based on total square footage of uses on site.



Retail > 800,000 SF
 

1,000 SF

 

$16,897

 

More than 800,000 SF of general retail uses, as defined above based on total
square footage of retail uses on site.



Commercial Office & Medical Office Land Uses


Office = < 50,000 SF
 

1,000 SF

 

$25,000

 

A building of 50,000 SF or smaller with office uses, including those with
multiple tenants. Office uses include but are not limited to, businesses,
commercial, or professional services, medical and dental office uses that
provide outpatient care on a routine basis, and on-site cafeteria or café or
retail services for use by on-site employees.



Office > 50,000 SF - 250,000 SF
 

1,000 SF

 

Interpolate

 

A building greater than 50,000 SF but less than 250,000 SF for office uses
(as defined above).



Office > 250,000 SF
 

1,000 SF

 

$16,754

 

Buildings greater than 250,000 SF for office uses (as defined above).



Industrial Land Uses


Industrial
 

1,000 SF

 

$10,975

 

Facility that includes a mixture of two or more of the following:
manufacturing, service facilities, or warehouse facilities.



Manufacturing
 

1,000 SF

 

$9,426

 

Facility that is primarily devoted to the conversion of raw materials or
parts into finished products; may include ancillary warehouse, office and
research related functions.



Warehouse
 

1,000 SF

 

$4,132

 

Facility that is primarily devoted to the storage of materials; including
ancillary office and maintenance related functions.



Mini-Warehouse
 

1,000 SF

 

$3,357

 

Self-storage facilities in which a number of storage units/vaults are rented
for the storage of goods, including ancillary office and maintenance-related
functions.



Cargo Facilities
 

1,000 SF

 

$7,876

 

Cargo facilities associated with aviation uses on or adjacent to the LAX
airport.



Maintenance Facilities
 

1,000 SF

 

$2,195

 

Maintenance facilities associated with aviation uses on or adjacent to the
LAX airport.





 



   b.   Special Generators.  If LADOT determines that a proposed use
cannot be classified under the land use categories listed in the TIA Fee
Table, then LADOT shall calculate the fee as follows:



 



   i.   Based on the land use category that is most similar to the
proposed use; or if LADOT determines in its discretion that no land use
category is similar:



 



   ii.   Based on the trip generation of the use, average trip length
for the use, and pass-by trip rate of the use, and fee rate consistent with
the methodology and rates in the Westside Mobility Plan Fee Study approved by
the City Council to adopt the fees in the TIA Fee Table.



 



   2.   Effective Date.  The TIA Fee shall be effective on the 60th
day following the adoption of this Ordinance.



 



   3.   Phased Implementation of the Residential TIA Fee.  The TIA Fee
for Residential Land Uses (as those uses are defined in the TIA Fee Table),
shall be phased based on when the Project plans are submitted to the Los
Angeles Department of Building and Safety (LADBS) pursuant to Section 12.26
A.3. of this Code:



 



   a.   For Projects with plans submitted within the first 120 days
following the effective date of the ordinance, no TIA Fee for Residential
Land Uses shall be paid.



 



   b.   For Projects with plans submitted between 121 and 305 days
following the effective date of the ordinance, one-third of the TIA Fee for
Residential Land Uses (based on the fee schedule in effect at the time the
plans are submitted) shall be imposed.



 



   c.   For Projects with plans submitted between 306 and 484 days
following the effective date of the ordinance, two-thirds of the TIA Fee for
Residential Land Uses (based on the fee schedule in effect at the time the
plans are submitted) shall be paid.



 



   d.   For Projects with plans submitted 485 or more days following
the effective date of the ordinance, the full TIA Fee for Residential Land
Uses (based on the fee schedule in effect at the time the plans are
submitted) shall be paid.



 



   4.   Annual Indexing.  The TIA Fees shall be increased (or
decreased) annually as follows:  The Annual Index upon adoption of this
ordinance shall be 1.000.  The TIA Fee shall be increased (or decreased) as
of January 1 of each year by the amount of the percent increase (or decrease)
in the most recently available Construction Cost Index for the Los Angeles
region, or equivalent index, as determined by LADOT.  The revised Annual
Index shall be published by LADOT in a newspaper of citywide circulation or
on the LADOT website before January 31 of each year.



 



   5.   Appeal Filing Fee.  An appeal filed pursuant to Section 11.A.
or B. of the WLA TIMP or the CTCSP shall be accompanied by a filing fee of
$500 payable to LADOT or LADCP, as applicable.



 



   D.   Fee Exemptions, Calculations, and Credits.



 



   1.   TIA Fee Exemptions.  The following Projects shall be exempt
from payment of a TIA Fee:



 



   a.   Any Project exempt from the requirements of the CTCSP or WLA
TIMP pursuant to Section 5.B. in the applicable Specific Plan;



 



   b.   Affordable Dwelling Units, if they meet the criteria in
Subsection 8.B.2.b. of the CTCSP and the WLA TIMP;



 



   c.   One hundred percent affordable housing projects. For the
purposes of this section, a "one hundred percent affordable housing project"
means a Project in which each residential unit in the Project, exclusive of a
manager's unit or units, is an Affordable Dwelling Unit.  A one hundred
percent affordable housing project may include on-site services or mixed
commercial uses;



 



   d.   Projects providing housing or services for persons experiencing
homelessness, including but not limited to permanent or temporary supportive
housing projects, transitional housing projects, and supportive services;



 



   e.   Accessory dwelling units to single family homes, commonly
referred to as "granny flats;"



 



   f.   Educational institutions, public and private;



 



   g.   Child Care Facilities as defined by LAMC Section 12.03;



 



   h.   Churches, Temples, and other buildings used for assembly,
whether for religious or secular purposes;



 



   i.   Hospitals. For purposes of this section, "hospital" means a
facility, place, or building that is organized, maintained, and operated for
the diagnosis, care, prevention, and treatment of human illness, physical or
mental, including convalescence and rehabilitation and including care during
and after pregnancy, or for any one or more of these purposes, for one or
more persons, to which a person may be admitted for a 24-hour stay or longer;



 



   j.   Eldercare Facilities, as defined in LAMC Section 12.03;



 



   k.   Park and Ride Facilities;



 



   l.   Temporary uses of less than six months in duration based on a
building permit where no extension of time is permitted;



 



   m.   Governmental or Public Facilities defined as capital
improvements and/or buildings or structures used for the operation of City,
County, State or Federal governments including, but not limited to, police
and fire stations, government offices, government equipment yards, sanitation
facilities, schools, parks, United States Federal Aviation Authority or Los
Angeles World Airports (LAWA) administrative facilities, and other similar
administrative facilities in which general government operations are
conducted. Governmental or Public Facility does not include the use of
publicly owned land, buildings, improvements or structures for private
activities pursuant to lease agreements; and



 



   n.   Projects on property owned by LAWA and used for aircraft
operations (commercial or noncommercial) or airport operation facilities
(such as, terminals and other passenger processing related facilities such as
gate areas and non-commercial spaces of passenger transportation such as the
Intermodal Transportation Facility), not including cargo facilities or
maintenance facilities.



 



   2.   TIA Fee Calculation.  The TIA Fee shall be calculated as
follows:



 



   Total TIA Fee = (number of Units) x (TIA Fee per Unit)



 



   The type of Unit and the TIA Fee per Unit for the land use are
identified in the TIA Fee Table in Section C.1.a.



 



   For special generators, pursuant to Section C.1.b, the fee shall be
calculated as provided in Section C.1.b.



 



   3.   TIA Fee Credits.



 



   a.   Existing Land Use Credit.  The Fee Credit for existing uses,
as provided in Section 8.A of the WLA TIMP and the CTCSP, shall be determined
and calculated as follows:



 



   i.   Existing land uses on a Project site for which a TIA Fee was
paid pursuant to Ordinance Nos.160,394, 168,999, or 171,492 shall receive a
Fee Credit based on the existing land uses for which a fee was previously
paid; and



 



   ii.   For existing land uses that are not eligible for a credit
under Subsection i., above, a Fee Credit shall be given when requested by the
Applicant subject to all of the following:



 



   (a)   Applicants for Projects seeking credits for existing uses must
provide LADOT with documentation supporting the existence and duration of the
use (such as, lease agreements, utility bills, or previous environmental
reviews).  LADOT will validate credits for existing uses based on the
provided documentation.



 



   (b)   Fee Credits shall not be given for existing Affordable
Dwelling Units.



 



   (c)   If the existing use was active for at least six consecutive
months during the past two years prior to submittal of plans to LADBS
pursuant to LAMC Section 12.26 A.3., a 100 percent credit will be granted for
the existing use pursuant to the calculation below. The 100 percent credit is
calculated as follows:



 



   Credit = (number of existing Units) x (TIA Fee per Unit)



 



   The type of Unit and the TIA Fee per Unit for each land use are
identified in the TIA Fee Table in Section C.1.a.



 



   For special generators, pursuant to Section C.1.b, the fee shall be
calculated as provided in Section C.1.b.



 



   (d)   If the existing use was active for at least six consecutive
months during the past four years prior to submittal of plans to LADBS
pursuant to Section 12.26 A.3. of this Code, a 50 percent credit will be
granted for the previous use.  The 50 percent credit is calculated as
follows:



 



   Credit = (number of existing Units) x (TIA Fee per Unit) x (.50)



 



   The type of Unit and the TIA Fee per Unit for the land use are
identified in the TIA Fee Table in Section C.1.a.



 



   For special generators, pursuant to Section C.1.b, the fee shall be
calculated as provided in Section C.1.b.



 



   b.   Affordable Housing Credit.  The Affordable Housing Fee Credit
pursuant to Section 8.B.2. of the WLA TIMP and the CTCSP shall be calculated
as follows:



 



   i.   Calculation.  Credits shall be granted for each Affordable
Dwelling Unit in an amount equal to the fee for two Apartment units, as shown
in the TIA Fee Table in Subsection C.1.a, as follows:



 



   Credit = (Affordable Dwelling Units) x (2 x [TIA Fee per Apartment
Unit])



 



   The type of Unit and the TIA Fee per Unit for the land use are
identified in the TIA Fee Table in Section C.1.a.



 



   For special generators, pursuant to Section C.1.b, the fee shall be
calculated as provided in Section C.1.b



 



   ii.   Maximum Credits.  In no case shall the Affordable Housing Fee
Credit exceed 50 percent of the TIA Fee for a Project.



 



   c.   Transit Oriented Development Credit.  The Transit Oriented
Development Fee Credit pursuant to Section 8.B.3. of the WLA TIMP and the
CTCSP shall be calculated as follows:



 



   i.   A Project on a parcel within one-half mile of a transit station
or stop serving a Dedicated Transit Line is eligible for a five percent Fee
Credit; or



 



   ii.   A Project with a pedestrian entrance within one-quarter mile
walking distance to a transit station or stop serving a Dedicated Transit
Line is eligible for a 10 percent fee credit.



 



   The applicant is required to submit a map subject to LADOT review and
approval, showing the Project is eligible for a Transit Oriented Development
Fee Credit.



 



   d.   No Credit for Administrative Costs.  Notwithstanding the
above, no credit shall be granted for that portion of the TIA Fee for the
administrative costs of the TIA Fee program (five percent of total fee).



 



   E.   Transportation Improvement Project List.



 



   1.   The City Council shall adopt by resolution a list of TIA Fee
Improvements as described in Section 6.B. of the WLA TIMP and the CTCSP that
meet the purposes identified in Section 3 of the Specific Plans and are
consistent with the most recently adopted fee study.  The City Council may
amend the resolution from time to time or approve the use of TIA Fee monies
for transportation improvements not on the list of TIA Fee Improvements
subject to the procedures in this Subsection E.



 



   2.   The list of TIA Fee Improvements shall include improvements in
all of the following four categories:



 



   a.   Transit.  A transit improvement is an improvement that
encourages or supports the use of transit.



 



   b.   Active transportation.  An active transportation improvement
is an improvement that encourages or supports the use of biking and walking,
and other forms of active transportation.



 



   c.   Roadway.  A roadway improvement is an improvement that
improves or maintains vehicular movement in the circulation system.



 



   d.   Trip reduction.  A trip reduction improvement is an
improvement that decreases vehicle miles travelled.



 



   3.   Updating the List of TIA Fee Improvements.  Upon
recommendation of LADOT or the LADCP, the City Council may amend the
resolution and list of TIA Fee Improvements adopted pursuant to Subsection
E.1., provided the following criteria are met:



 



   a.   The improvement achieves the purposes described in Section 3 of
the CTCSP or the WLA TIMP; and



 



   b.   The improvement fulfills the transportation objectives of the
improvement which it is to replace, including falling within the same
category of improvement as identified in Subsection E.2. and at least one of
the same type of project improvements existing in that category; and



 



   c.   The improvement meets at least one of the following:



 



   i.   The improvement implements one or more goals, objectives and
policies of the Mobility Plan 2035; and/or



 



   ii.   The improvement is feasible and the planning and engineering
is advanced enough that with sufficient funding or funds to meet a funding
gap, construction can begin in the near future, (i.e., "shovel ready"); and/or



 



   iii.   The improvement does not hinder equitable geographic
distribution of transportation projects within the Specific Plan geographies.



 



   4.   Funding Transportation Improvements that are not on the
Approved List of TIA Fee Improvements.  The City Council may by resolution
allocate TIA Fee funds for an improvement project that is not included on the
approved list of TIA Fee Improvements without amending the resolution adopted
under Subsection E.1., provided the improvement meets the relevant criteria
in Subsection E.3.



 



   F.   Administration.



 



   1.   Guidelines.  The General Manager of the LADOT may adopt
guidelines to implement the WLA TIMP and CTCSP TIA Fee programs consistent
with the Specific Plans and this Ordinance.



 



   2.   Reporting Template.  LADOT may develop a reporting template
for the fee monitoring report.  The template may include, but is not limited
to, TIA Fee revenues, interest revenues, trust fund administration,
encumbered monies, and expended monies.



 



   G.   Use of TIA Fees.



 



   1.   Administrative Costs.  Up to five percent of TIA Fees may be
used for administrative costs each year.



 



   2.   Prohibited Use of TIA Fee Monies.  TIA Fee monies shall not be
used for any of the following:



 



   a.   Improvements which do not provide a regional or sub-regional
transportation benefit;



 



   b.   Project Serving Improvements;



 



   c.   Financing of any transportation improvement which is not of
direct benefit to the Specific Plan Area from which the TIA Fee was collected;



 



   d.   Substituting for other transportation monies which have been
allocated to the Specific Plan Area;



 



   e.   Operation and maintenance costs;



 



   f.   Curb, driveway, gutter, trees, street lights/power poles and
sidewalk construction or repair, except as part of a transportation
improvement pursuant to the Specific Plan;



 



   g.   Off-street parking facilities, except in conjunction with a TDM
program;



 



   h.   Alley improvements; and



 



   i.   Private streets.



 



   H.   Severability.  If any portion, subsection, sentence, clause or
phrase of this ordinance is for any reason held by a court of competent
jurisdiction to be invalid, such a decision shall not affect the validity of
the remaining portions of this ordinance.  The City Council hereby declares
that it would have passed this ordinance and each portion or subsection,
sentence, clause and phrase herein, irrespective of the fact that any one or
more portions, subsections, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared invalid.



 



 



 



 


