
Los Angeles Municipal Code


CHAPTER XIX
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION



 




(Added by Ord. No. 180,429, Eff. 1/30/09.)




 



 



   Article



 



   1   Solid Waste and Recycled Materials Management



 



   2   Carryout Bags



 



   3   Disposable Plastic Drinking Straws



 



   4   California Environmental Quality Act ("CEQA") Appeals



 



 



 



ARTICLE 1
SOLID WASTE AND RECYCLED MATERIALS MANAGEMENT



 



 



Section



190.01   Solid Waste Enforcement Program.



190.02   Depositing Solid Waste.



191.01   Solid Waste Transfer / Processing Station Permit.



191.02   Compostable Materials Handling Facility Permit.



191.03   Construction and Demolition and Inert Debris Transfer /
Processing Operations and Facility Permits.



191.04   Non-hazardous Contaminated Soil Transfer / Processing Operation
Permit.



191.05   Non-hazardous Contaminated Soil Disposal Facility Permit.



191.06   Sanitary Landfill Permits.



191.07   Non-operating Landfills.



191.08   Closed Landfill.



191.09   Joint Powers Authority and the Sunshine Canyon Landfill Local
Enforcement Agency.



191.10   Solid Waste Collection Vehicle Yards.



191.11   Solid Waste Collection Vehicles.



191.12   Transformation Facilities.



192.01   Display of Solid Waste Permit Information.



192.02   Solid Waste Facility Application Permit Review Fees.



192.03   Solid Waste Facility Permit Inspection Fee.



192.04   Solid Waste Facility Permit Revision Review Fees.



192.05   Additional Compliance Monitoring Fees.



193.01   Annual Fee Adjustments.



193.02   Solid Waste Facility Fee Table.



193.02.1   Transfer Stations.



193.02.2   Compostable Materials Handling Facility Permit.



193.02.3   Construction and Demolition and Inert Debris Transfer /
Processing Operations and Facility Permits.



193.02.4   Non-hazardous Contaminated Soil Transfer / Processing Operation.



193.02.5   Non-hazardous Contaminated Soil Disposal Facility.



193.02.6   Sanitary Landfill.



193.02.7   Solid Waste Collection Vehicle Yards.



193.02.8   Solid Waste Collection Vehicles.



193.02.9   Transformation Facilities.



193.02.10   Not Used.



193.02.11   Closed Landfill Development Site Review Fee.



193.02.12   Solid Waste Facility Application Permit Review Fee.



193.02.13   Solid Waste Facility Permit Inspection Fee.



193.02.14   Solid Waste Facility Permit Revision Review Fee.



193.03   Additional Fees.



193.04   Penalty for Past Due Fees.



194.01   Suspension of Permit for Non-payment of Fees.



194.02   Permit Transfers.



194.03   Administrative Penalties.



194.04   Remedies Not Exclusive.



194.05   Liability for Costs of Correction Arising from Violation.



194.06   Criteria to Impose an Administrative Penalty.



194.07   Appeal of Administrative Penalty.



194.08   Use of Funds.



 



 



SEC. 190.01.  SOLID WASTE ENFORCEMENT PROGRAM.



 



   A.   This Chapter is adopted pursuant to and for the purpose of
incorporating by reference the California Integrated Solid Waste Management
Act of 1989 commencing with Section 40000 of the Public Resources Code and
the California Code of Regulations Title 14, Division 7 and Title 27,
Division 2, as amended, to the Los Angeles Municipal Code.



 



   B.   The local enforcement of the provisions in this Chapter shall
be carried out by the City of Los Angeles Department of Building and Safety,
Local Enforcement Agency Program (LEA).  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,198, Eff.
7/27/10.)



 



   C.   (Amended by Ord. No. 181,198, Eff. 7/27/10.)  In order to
carry out the purpose of this Chapter, any authorized representative of the
Department may, at any reasonable hour of the day, as authorized by this
ordinance, enter and inspect any permitted or unpermitted solid waste
facility, solid waste collection vehicle yard, or site where solid wastes
have been deposited or treated for the purpose of recovering resources and
may do any of the following:



 



   1.   Carry out any sampling of monitoring activities necessary to
carry out provisions of this Chapter.



 



   2.   Inspect and copy any records, reports, test results, or other
information to carry out provisions of this Chapter.



 



   3.   Photograph or videotape any waste, waste container, waste
collection vehicle or any waste facility or portion thereof.



 



   4.   Issue permits consistent with the provisions of state law with
the concurrence of the California Department of Resources Recycling and
Recovery (CalRecycle), if required by regulation.



 



   5.   Impose permit conditions and requirements necessary to protect
the health and safety of the public and the environment, if allowed by
regulation.



 



   6.   Conduct reasonable corrective actions and implement other
protective measures needed to ensure public health and environmental safety
during emergencies.



 



   D.   The personnel assigned to the Local Enforcement Agency in the
positions of Environmental Affairs Officer, Environmental Supervisor,
Environmental Specialist and Industrial Hygienist, shall have the power,
authority, and immunity of a public officer or employee, as specified in the
California Code of Civil Procedures Code Section 1822.50, et seq. and the
power, authority, and immunity of a public officer as set forth in the Penal
Code of the State of California, Section 836.5, to make arrests without a
warrant whenever he or she has reasonable cause to believe that the person to
be arrested has committed a misdemeanor or an infraction in his or her
presence, which is a violation of any law of this State or any ordinance of
the City pertaining to matters under the jurisdiction of the LEA (as
certified by the California Natural Resources Agency, California Department
of Resources Recycling and Recovery, with respect to illegal disposal of
solid waste as described in the Los Angeles Municipal Code Section
41.70.3.6*).  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,198, Eff. 7/27/10.)



 



   E.   (Amended by Ord. No. 181,198, Eff. 7/27/10.)  The power,
authority, and immunity granted in Subsection D. shall be exercised only by
the personnel designated in Subsection D. and authorized deputies who have
successfully completed a course in the exercise of powers of a peace officer
pursuant to California Penal Code Section 832.  All Public officers
empowered by this Section shall have the authority and standing of a "local
enforcement agency" for the purposes specified in the California Public
Resources Code Division 30, Part 3, related to the California Department of
Resources Recycling and Recovery Local Enforcement Agency Program. 
Personnel designated in Subsection D. and authorized deputies who have
successfully completed a course in the exercise of powers of a peace officer
pursuant to California Penal Code Section 832, shall have the status of peace
officers. In addition, personnel designated in Subsection D. and authorized
deputies who have successfully completed a course in the exercise of powers
of a peace officer pursuant to California Penal Code Section 832, shall have
the foregoing power, authority and immunity with respect to a violation of
any of the following sections of the Municipal Code:*



 



   190.02(a)      191.01(a)      191.02(a)      191.03(a)
   191.04(a)      191.05(a)      191.06(a)      191.07(a)
   191.08(a)      190.10(a)      191.12(a)      191.13(a)



 



   F.   Those persons designated in Subsections C., D. and E. of this
section are hereby authorized to issue citations for violation of the Los
Angeles Municipal Code Section 190.02.



 



   G.   Those persons designated in Subsections C., D. and E. of this
section are hereby authorized to issue citations for violations of the Los
Angeles Municipal Code for violations of land use conditions of approval
related to solid waste facilities, recycling facilities or other industrial
or commercial sites where there is evidence of negative environmental effects
affecting the community.



 



   H.   The provisions of Penal Code Section 836.5 regarding issuance
of a written promise to appear shall be applicable to arrests authorized
herein.



 



   I.   Designated employees of the Department and City staff of the
Sunshine Canyon Landfill Local Enforcement Agency and their Directors, or
agents may carry upon their persons a metallic badge, of a size and design to
be determined as provided in Sec. 52.32 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code,
while performing their respective duties applicable to the enforcement of
state and local solid waste laws and regulations.



 



   * Note: The code sections listed herein will be amended in a
forthcoming ordinance.



 



 



SEC. 190.02.  DEPOSITING SOLID WASTE.



 



   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit or cause to be deposited
any putrescible and non-putrescible solid wastes including combustible or
noncombustible rubbish, refuse, trash, dewatered, treated or chemically fixed
sewage sludge, or discarded solid or semisolid wastes or regulated recyclable
materials of any kind whatsoever upon or in any street, public area, any
private premises in this City, or in the Los Angeles River, or in the bed
thereof without obtaining all required approvals and/or permits to do so.



 



 



SEC. 191.01.  SOLID WASTE TRANSFER / PROCESSING STATION PERMIT.



 



   A.   No solid waste transfer/processing station shall be operated
without first obtaining a permit from the Department.  An application shall
be filed with the Department giving such information as is required by the
Department and, if approved by the Department, an annual permit may be issued
upon payment of an annual inspection fee as found in the Solid Waste and
Recycled Materials Facility Fee table found in Sec. 193.02.



 



   B.   Permit Class shall be determined by the Department based on
permitted daily tonnage.  Fees are due within 30 days from the issuance date
of a new permit.



 



   C.   Such permits shall not extend to a later date than the first
day of July next succeeding the date of issuance.  Fees for a new permit
issued after the first day of July will be prorated on a monthly basis.



 



   D.   The definition of solid waste transfer facilities for
establishing fees will be calculated based on the permitted daily tonnage of
the solid waste, as follows:



 



   1.   Class 1 Transfer Station - A limited volume transfer operation
that receives 60 cubic yards or less of solid waste per day.



 



   2.   Class 2 Transfer Station - A permitted, medium volume transfer
station that is permitted for 60 cubic yards to 100 tons or less of solid
waste per day.




   3.   Class 3 Transfer Station - A permitted, large volume transfer
station that is permitted for 101 tons to 1,501 tons of solid waste per day.



 



   4.   Class 4 Transfer Station - A permitted large volume transfer
station that is permitted for 1,501 to 2,500 tons of solid waste per day.



 



   5.   Class 5 Transfer Station - A permitted large volume transfer
station that is permitted for 2,501 to 3,500 tons of solid waste per day.



 



   6.   Class 6 Transfer Station - A permitted large volume transfer
station that is permitted for 3,501 to 4,500 tons of solid waste per day.



 



   7.   Class 7 Transfer Station - A permitted large volume transfer
station that is permitted for 4,501 to 5,500 tons of solid waste per day.



 



   8.   Class 8 Transfer Station - A permitted large volume transfer
station that is permitted for over 5,501 tons of solid waste per day.



 



 



SEC. 191.02.  COMPOSTABLE MATERIALS HANDLING FACILITY PERMIT.



 



   A.   No compostable materials handling operation or facility shall
be operated without first obtaining a permit from the Department.  An
application shall be filed with the Department giving such information as is
required by the Department and, if approved by the Department, an annual
permit may be issued upon payment of an annual inspection fee as found in the
Solid Waste and Recycled Materials Facility Fee table found in Sec. 193.02.2.



 



   B.   The definition of composting facility for establishing fees
will be made in accordance with Title 14, California Code of Regulations,
Division 7, Chapter 3.1, Article 2, Regulatory Tiers for Composting
Operations and Facilities.



 



   C.   All compostable materials handling facilities or operations
shall, at the time of application, submit to the Department all information
that may be required to process its application including, but not limited
to, a Report of Composting Site Information and an Odor Impact Minimization
Plan.



 



   D.   Compostable materials handling facilities or operations shall
comply with the operating standards and siting, design and reporting
requirements as specified in its permit or as set forth in Title 14 of the
California Code of Regulations, Chapter 3.1, Articles 5 to 9.



 



   E.   The definition of compostable materials operations or
facilities for establishing fees will be as referenced in subsection B,
above, and shall be based on the tiered regulatory placement of the operation
or facility, as follows:



 



   1.   Class 1 - Enforcement Agency Notification



 



   2.   Class 2 - Registration Permit



 



   3.   Class 3 - Full Solid Waste Facility Permit.



 



 



SEC. 191.03.  CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION AND INERT DEBRIS TRANSFER /
PROCESSING OPERATIONS AND FACILITY PERMITS.



 



   A.   No construction and demolition and inert debris
transfer/processing operation or facility, inert processing, or wood debris
chipping and grinding facility shall be operated without first obtaining a
permit from the Department.  An application shall be filed with the
Department giving information as required by the Department and, if approved
by the Department, an annual permit may be issued upon payment of an annual
inspection fee as found in the Solid Waste and Recycled Materials Facility
Fee table found in Sec. 193.02.3.



 



   B.   Construction and demolition and inert debris
transfer/processing operations and facilities shall be classified in
accordance with Title 14, California Code of Regulations, Division 7, Article
5.9, Section 17381 et seq.  In addition to the classification defined by
tonnage and storage limits on tonnages, each facility also must meet the
applicable composition requirements for the incoming materials, the amount of
allowable residual material to be disposed in a facilities specific
classification, the level of putrescible materials, and the received material
origin as it relates to the source separation (source separated and separated
for reuse materials, and/or separated at point of generation, i.e., no
commingling) requirements for each classification.  The composition tests
are described in Title 14 California Code of Regulations, Section 17381 to
Section 17383 and are incorporated by reference.



 



   C.   All construction and demolition and inert debris
transfer/processing operations or facilities shall at the time of
application, submit to the Department all information that may be required to
process its application.



 



   D.   Definition of construction and demolition and inert debris
transfer/processing operations or facilities for establishing fees:  The
calculation for the fee will be based on the tiered regulatory placement of
the operation or facility, as follows:




   1.   Class 1 - Enforcement Agency Notification




   2.   Class 2 - Registration Permit



 



   3.   Class 3 - Full Solid Waste Facility Permit.



 



 



SEC. 191.04.  NON-HAZARDOUS CONTAMINATED SOIL TRANSFER / PROCESSING
OPERATION PERMIT.



 



   No contaminated soil transfer/processing operation shall be operated
without first obtaining a permit from the Department.  An application shall
be filed with the Department giving information as required by the Department
and, if approved by the Department, an annual permit may be issued upon
payment of an annual inspection fee as found in the Solid Waste and Recycled
Materials Facility Fee table found in Sec. 193.02.4.



 



 



SEC. 191.05.  NON-HAZARDOUS CONTAMINATED SOIL DISPOSAL FACILITY PERMIT.



 



   No contaminated soil disposal facility shall be operated without first
obtaining a permit from the Department.  An application shall be filed with
the Department giving information as required by the Department and, if
approved by the Department, an annual permit may be issued upon payment of an
annual inspection fee as found in the Solid Waste and Recycled Materials
Facility Fee table found in Sec. 193.02.5.



 



 



SEC. 191.06.  SANITARY LANDFILL PERMITS.



 



   A.   No sanitary landfill shall be operated without first obtaining
a permit from the Department.  An application shall be filed with the
Department giving information as required by the Department.



 



   B.   It shall be unlawful to burn or incinerate solid waste or
rubbish on private or public property or upon sanitary landfills within the
City of Los Angeles.  This Subsection does not apply to transformation or
conversion technology facilities (e.g., waste-to-energy facilities that
generate electricity through the incineration of solid waste, or other
transformation facilities as defined by the California Public Resources Code)
that have obtained all necessary permits to operate.



 



   C.   Prior to the issuance of a permit, the Department shall
investigate each particular site and shall require that all necessary
measures be taken to ensure that the operation of the sanitary landfill will
not endanger the public health, safety or welfare and that it conforms to
requirements for solid waste facilities found in the California Integrated
Solid Waste Management Act of 1989 commencing with Section 40000 of the
Public Resources Code and the California Code of Regulations Title 27,
Division 2 or any successor statutes.



 



   D.   The definition of solid waste facilities for establishing fees
is as follows:



 



   1.   Class A Landfill - A municipal solid waste landfill as defined
in Title 27, Division 2, Chapter 3 in the California Code of Regulations that
has been issued a solid waste facility permit.



 



   2.   Class A-2 Landfill - A municipal solid waste landfill as
defined in Title 27, Division 2, Chapter 3 in the California Code of
Regulations that has been issued a solid waste facility permit and due to
specific site conditions requires special monitoring of both the active and
closed units of the landfill.



 



   3.   Class B Landfill - A landfill that has ceased accepting waste
and that has closure documentation and is under review and evaluation by the
Department.



 



   4.   Class C Landfill - A landfill that has ceased accepting waste,
has had closure documentation that has been approved and is implementing the
final closure plan.



 



   5.   Class D Landfill - A landfill that has ceased accepting waste
and has completed closure in accordance with applicable statutes, regulations
and local ordinances in effect at the time and meets either of the following
conditions:



 



   (a)   Environmental impacts such as landfill gas or leachate are not
being mitigated, either on or off site, to protect public health and/or the
environment.  At least monthly inspections by the Department are required.



 



   (b)   Environmental impacts such as landfill gas or leachate are
being mitigated on site to protect public health and/or the environment. 
However, control systems require at least monthly monitoring by the
Department due to the proximity of sensitive receptors, such as structures. 
Regular monitoring reports also may be required to be submitted to the
Department for review on a regular basis.



 



   6.   Class E Landfill - A landfill that has ceased accepting waste
and has completed closure in accordance with applicable statutes, regulations
and local ordinances in effect at the time of closure and meets either of the
following conditions:



 



   (a)   Environmental impacts such as landfill gas or leachate are
being mitigated, both on and off site, to protect public health and/or the
environment.  Closed landfills in this class require landfill gas or
leachate, or other monitoring reports to be submitted to the Department for
review on a regular basis.



 



   (b)   Environmental impacts such as landfill gas or leachate are
being mitigated on site to protect public health and/or the environment,
however due to the proximity of sensitive receptors such as structures,
inspection is required more than quarterly, but less than monthly.



 



   7.   Class F Landfill - A landfill that has ceased accepting waste
and has completed closure in accordance with applicable statutes, regulations
and local ordinances in effect at the time.  Due to site conditions
including, but not limited to, minimal gas and leachate production, and
distant proximity to sensitive receptors, only quarterly inspections are
required.



 



   8.   Class G Landfill - A landfill that is permitted to accept only
inert solids or inert waste materials including, but not limited to, soil and
concrete, that does not contain hazardous waste or soluble pollutants at
concentrations in excess of water-quality objectives established by a
Regional Water Quality Control Board pursuant to Division 7 (commencing with
Section 13000) of the California Water Code and does not contain significant
quantities of decomposable solid waste.



 



   E.   A permit shall not extend to a date later than the last day of
the paid permit period.  The permit may be renewed annually by the
Department, upon the receipt of payment of fees contained in this
ordinance.  Fees for a new permit issued after the first day of July will be
prorated on a monthly basis.



 



   F.   The Department shall enforce the California Integrated Solid
Waste Management Act of 1989 commencing with Section 40000 et seq. of the
Public Resources Code and the California Code of Regulations Title 14 and
Title 27, governing the sanitary landfill administrative, operational, and
closure/post-closure requirements.



 



   G.   Each applicant of a facility shall pay an annual inspection fee
to the Department for the period between July 1, through June 30, (inclusive)
for each fiscal year as found in the Solid Waste and Recycled Materials
Facility Fee table found in Sec. 193.02.6.



 



 



SEC. 191.07.  NON-OPERATING LANDFILLS.



 



   A.   It shall be unlawful for owners of non-operating landfills to
fail to monitor and control decomposition gases if the Department has
properly notified the owner of the owner's monitoring or control
requirements.  The Department will provide notice when it has cause to
believe that a landfill site not presently operating, whether or not ever
permitted by the City, is a hazard or a nuisance as a result of the migration
of decomposition gases from landfill in excess of state regulations.  The
Department may require the owner to monitor the site according to
specifications adopted by the Department, with monitoring results submitted
to the Department and any other appropriate agency as directed by the
Department.  If the Department determines that monitoring is required the
monitoring shall be done by and at the expense of the owner and/or
operator.  The owner/operator may request a hearing pursuant to Public
Resource Code Sections 44305 and 44310.



 



   B.   If the owner and/or operator refuse to conduct monitoring as
provided in Subsection A. or fail to conduct the monitoring within a
reasonable time as determined by the Department, the City or a contractor
selected by the City shall conduct monitoring with all reasonable costs
assessed to and owed by the owner/operator.



 



 



SEC. 191.08.  CLOSED LANDFILL.



 



   A.   It shall be unlawful for a sanitary landfill which is closed,
to construct an on-site development unless such construction is reviewed and
approved by the Department with respect to California Code of Regulations
Title 14 and Title 27 closure/postclosure requirements.  An approved closure
plan or site plan approval is required before start of any demolition and/or
construction activity begins.  Site development plan review fees must be
paid as set forth in this Code at the time that the development plan is
submitted to the Department for review.



 



   B.   Closed site development plan review fees shall be charged as
set forth in Sec. 193.02.11.  The determination as to the category of fees
assessed to the applicant will be made by Departmental staff upon preliminary
review of the applicant's closed site development plan review request.



 



 



SEC. 191.09.  JOINT POWERS AUTHORITY AND THE SUNSHINE CANYON LANDFILL LOCAL
ENFORCEMENT AGENCY.



 



   A.   The LEA shall provide the permitting, inspection / enforcement
staff, administrative / management staff, equipment, closure / postclosure
maintenance oversight staff, and any required technical support for the
operations of the Sunshine Canyon Landfill Local Enforcement Agency that has
been created by the "Joint Exercise of Powers Agreement between the City of
Los Angeles and the County of Los Angeles for the Creation of the
‘Authority' and the Sunshine Canyon Landfill Local Enforcement Agency in
the County and City of Los Angeles."



 



   B.   On behalf of the Sunshine Canyon Landfill Local Enforcement
Agency, the LEA shall collect the funds necessary to cover the cost of
inspections and program administration and to provide the staff and technical
resources to the Sunshine Canyon Landfill Local Enforcement Agency.  The
fees assessed for reimbursement of LEA costs and expenses in support of the
Sunshine Canyon Landfill permit for combined City/County operation shall be
reviewed and approved by the Sunshine Canyon Landfill Local Enforcement
Agency Board of Directors.  All fees imposed shall reflect necessary and
reasonable costs for providing permitting, inspection, enforcement and
monitoring services.



 



 



SEC. 191.10.  SOLID WASTE COLLECTION VEHICLE YARDS.



 



   A.   No solid waste collection vehicle yard shall be operated
without first obtaining a permit from the Department.  Waste collection
vehicles yards are defined as those facilities that store vehicles or devices
which collect solid waste at the point of origin and include front, side or
rear loading vehicles, and roll off container transportation vehicles. 
Vehicles that are not included in the definition of waste collection vehicles
are: transfer trucks, demolition trucks, dump trucks, and vehicles which haul
only recyclable materials from collection points to recycling facilities.



 



   B.   No solid waste vehicle storage yard shall be operated without
first obtaining a permit from the Department.  An application shall be filed
with the Department giving information as required by the Department and, if
approved by the Department, an annual permit may be issued upon payment in
advance of an annual inspection fee for each permitted site.  Permits shall
not extend to a later date than the first day of July next succeeding the
date of issuance.  Fees for a new permit issued after the first day of July
will be prorated on a monthly basis.



 



   C.   All waste collection vehicle yards must be maintained in a
manner to minimize the health and safety hazards to collection personnel and
the public.  Failure to so maintain waste collection vehicle yards shall
constitute a violation of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.



 



   1.   Transfer / Processing Operations - Waste collection vehicle
yards are prohibited from the transfer and/or processing of solid waste,
construction and demolition debris, inert debris or greenwaste without first
obtaining the necessary approvals of the LEA, the local land use authority,
or other approving agencies.



 



   2.   Entrance Signs - All waste collection vehicle yards shall have
an easily visible sign at the main entrance indicating the name of the
operator and operator's telephone number.



 



   3.   Site Security - The facility shall be designed to discourage
unauthorized access by persons and vehicles through the use of either a
perimeter barrier or topographic constraints.



 



   4.   Vehicle Parking - A refuse collection service operator must
designate an off-street location where all refuse collection vehicles will be
parked when not in service, except in an emergency.



 



   5.   Visual Screening - The facility shall have appropriate
treatment of areas open to public view to create and maintain an
aesthetically acceptable appearance as approved by the local land use
authority, or if none exists, in consultation with the LEA.  Compliance with
specific provisions regarding visual screening in a local land use approval,
such as conditional use permits, or CEQA mitigation measures shall be
considered compliance with this standard.



 



   6.   General Maintenance - All aspects of the operation shall be
maintained in a state of good repair. The operator shall implement a
preventative maintenance program to monitor and promptly repair or correct
deteriorated or defective conditions.  The operator shall provide adequate
housekeeping for the maintenance of facility equipment and shall minimize
accumulations of fuel drums, inoperable equipment, parts, tires, scrap, and
similar items.



 



   7.   Cleanup - Waste collection yards and their equipment, boxes,
bins, and other types of containers shall be cleaned each operating day of
all loose materials and litter, in order to prevent the propagation or
attraction of flies, rodents, or other vectors. The entrance and exit shall
be cleaned at a frequency which prevents the tracking or off-site migration
of waste materials.



 



   8.   Sanitation - The operator shall maintain all sanitary and
hand-washing facilities which may be required, by applicable state or local
requirements, in a reasonably clean and adequately supplied condition.



 



   9.   Scavenging / Salvaging - Each operation or facility shall meet
the following requirements:



 



   (a)   Scavenging shall be prohibited;



 



   (b)   Salvaging of materials, such as metal, paper, glass and
cardboard is permitted subject to conditions established by the LEA, the
local land use authority, or other approving agencies.



 



   (c)   Drugs, cosmetics, foods, beverages, hazardous wastes, poisons,
medical wastes, syringes, needles, pesticides and other materials capable of
causing public health or safety problems shall not be salvaged at operations
or facilities unless approved by the local health agency and the LEA.



 



   10.   Waste Removal - Waste materials shall not be stored in bins or
containers on site for more than 7 days in order to prevent the propagation
or attraction of flies, rodents or other vectors.  Waste materials may not
be deposited at the facility.  The LEA may impose an alternative frequency
if problems are created.



 



   11.   Nuisance Control - Each operation and facility shall be
conducted and maintained to prevent the creation of a nuisance.  Compliance
with specific provisions regarding nuisance control in a local land use
approval, such as a conditional use permit or California Environmental
Quality Act mitigation measures, shall be considered compliance with this
standard.



 



   12.   Vector Control - The operator shall take adequate steps to
control or prevent the propagation, harborage and attraction of flies,
rodents, or other vectors, and animals, and to minimize bird attraction.



 



   13.   Dust Control - The operator shall take adequate measures to
minimize the creation, emission, or accumulation of excessive dust and
particulates, and prevent other safety hazards to the public caused by
obscured visibility.  One or more of the following may be an indication that
dust is excessive:



 



   (a)   safety hazards due to obscured visibility; or



 



   (b)   irritation of the eyes; or



 



   (c)   hampered breathing;



 



   (d)   migration of dust off-site.



 



   14.   Litter Control - Litter at waste collection vehicle yards
shall be controlled, and routinely collected to prevent safety hazards,
nuisances and off-site migration of similar problems to the greatest extent
possible given existing weather conditions.



 



   D.   All waste collection vehicle yards must provide information, as
required, on waste collection vehicles to the Department or any authorized
agent thereof.



 



   E.   Waste collection vehicle yards that require extraordinary
compliance monitoring by the Department, in excess of that performed for
other facilities, as determined by the Department, must submit to additional
monitoring.



 



   F.   Waste collection vehicle yards that are in violation of this
Section and fail to maintain their facility or the public ingress and egress
areas clean and in good repair after notification may be cleaned up by the
City at the owner's expense.



 



   G.   Waste collection vehicle yards will be charged the amounts
specified in the Solid Waste and Recycled Materials Facility Fee table found
in Sec. 193.02.7.



 



 



SEC. 191.11.  SOLID WASTE COLLECTION VEHICLES.



 



   A.   Inspection of waste collection vehicles not owned and operated
by the City of Los Angeles may be carried out by the Los Angeles County Local
Enforcement Agency under agreement with the Department.  Waste collection
vehicles are defined as those vehicles or devices that collect solid waste at
the point of origin and include front, side or rear loading vehicles, and
roll off container transportation vehicles.  Vehicles that are not included
in the definition of waste collection vehicles are:  transfer trucks,
demolition trucks, dump trucks, and vehicles which haul only recyclable
materials from collection points to recycling facilities.



 



   B.   All waste collection vehicles not owned and operated by the
City of Los Angeles must obtain a valid waste collection permit from the
County of Los Angeles Local Enforcement Agency.  Solid Waste Vehicle Storage
Yard offices shall maintain proof that operating vehicles have valid waste
collection permits from the County of Los Angeles Local Enforcement Agency.



 



 



SEC. 191.12.  TRANSFORMATION FACILITIES.



 



   A.   No "Transformation" facility may be operated without first
obtaining a permit from the Department.  "Transformation" means the
incineration of solid waste, with or without the generation of electricity. 
"Transformation" does not include composting, biomass conversion or
conversion by a biorefinery.  A "Transformation" facility may fall into the
following classes:



 



   1.   Class 1 Transformation Facility - A transformation facility
that is permitted for 399 tons or less of solid waste per day.



 



   2.   Class 2 Transformation Facility - A transformation facility
that is permitted for 400 tons to 999 tons of solid waste per day.



 



   3.   Class 3 Transformation Facility - A transformation facility
that is permitted for 1000 tons or more of solid waste per day.



 



   B.   Each applicant of a Transformation facility shall pay an annual
inspection fee to the Department for the period between July 1 through June
30, (inclusive) for each fiscal year as specified in the Solid Waste and
Recycled Materials Facility Fee table found in Sec. 193.02.9.



 



 



SEC. 192.01.  DISPLAY OF SOLID WASTE PERMIT INFORMATION.



 



   All facilities subject to permit requirements must maintain, within the
location of the facility subject to the solid waste permit, a copy of the
current solid waste facility permit and permit receipt for fees paid as
issued by the LEA.  A full size copy of the permit receipt shall be legibly
displayed in a conspicuous location at the facility approved by the local
enforcement agency.  If a facility is served with a legal order to cease and
desist operation or suspend operations, the permit and permit receipt shall
be surrendered to the local enforcement agency until reinstated.



 



 



SEC. 192.02.  SOLID WASTE FACILITY APPLICATION PERMIT REVIEW FEES.



 



   A.   All proposed solid waste facilities must submit permit review
fees, as set forth in Sec. 193.02.12 of this Code at the time that the
application for a permit for a solid waste facility is submitted to the
Department.



 



   B.   The review fee will be based on the time and materials cost
associated with processing the application.  If more than 100 hours of staff
time are needed to complete the application review process, the applicant
will be billed by the Department monthly to cover these costs.  These costs
will include costs for staff time utilized and the cost of City contracted
consulting services plus a 10% administrative fee.



 



   1.   In determining the appropriate type of permit for existing
solid waste facilities permit revisions and/or proposed facilities
applications, facilities with multiple types of waste processing operations
(e.g., transfer operations, greenwaste processing, recycling, etc.) on a
single site shall be classified, for the purpose of the permitting
requirements, according to the most restrictive permit classification.  The
applicable fee schedule for the most restrictive permit classification
applies.



 



   2.   For single sites with multiple operations, the permitting
requirements of each of the individual operations must be met in addition to
the overall permitting requirements of the most restrictive operation that
determines the appropriate permit type.



 



 



SEC. 192.03.  SOLID WASTE FACILITY PERMIT INSPECTION FEE.



 



   A.   All solid waste facilities permitted and inspected by the LEA
must pay the cost of the inspections and program administration by Department
personnel.



 



   B.   Federal, state or local regulations may establish new
classifications of solid waste facilities and/or modify existing
classifications not included in the existing ordinance.  The City
periodically will revise applicable ordinances to include the new facilities
and to reclassify
existing facilities as necessary to meet the federal, state, and/or local
regulations and law.



 



   C.   Permit Inspection Fees for each category of facility will be
established in the Solid Waste Facility Fee Table, which appears in Section
193.02.13 of this Ordinance.  All fees are subject to increases allowed by
provisions of this Ordinance.



 



 



SEC. 192.04.  SOLID WASTE FACILITY PERMIT REVISION REVIEW FEES.



 



   A.   All solid waste facilities must submit permit revision review
fees, as set forth in Section 193.02.14 of this Code at the time that the
permit revision request for a solid waste facility is submitted to the
Department.



 



   B.    Permit revision fees shall be charged as set forth below. 
The determination as to the category of fees assessed to the applicant will
be made by Departmental staff upon preliminary review of the applicant's
permit revision request.



 



   1.   Major Permit Revision - The review fee for a major revision to
a solid waste facility permit will be based on the time and materials cost
associated with processing the application.  If more than 100 hours of staff
time are needed to complete the application review process, the applicant
will be billed by the Department monthly to cover these costs.  These costs
will include costs for staff time utilized and the cost of City contracted
consulting services plus a 10% administrative fee.



 



   2.   Minor Permit Revision - The review fee for a minor revision to
a solid waste facility permit will be based on the time and materials cost
associated with processing the application.  If more than 10 hours of staff
time are needed to complete the application review process, the applicant
will be billed by the Department monthly to cover these costs.  These costs
will include costs for staff time utilized and the cost of City contracted
consulting services plus a 10% administrative fee.



 



 



SEC. 192.05.  ADDITIONAL COMPLIANCE MONITORING FEES.



 



   A.   Any facility that requires extraordinary compliance monitoring
by the Department, in excess of that performed for other facilities, as
determined by the Department, must submit additional monitoring fees, as set
forth in subsection B. below.



 



   B.   After notification, the applicant will be billed by the
Department on a monthly basis in accordance with the time and materials cost
associated with additional compliance monitoring.  This fee will reflect the
cost of staff time utilized and the cost of City contracted consulting
services plus a 10% administrative fee.



 



 



SEC. 193.01.  ANNUAL FEE ADJUSTMENTS.



 



   A.   Beginning July 1, 2000, all fees imposed by the Solid Waste
Enforcement Program shall be adjusted annually on July 1 by an inflation
factor (‘IN'), which is based upon the change, from the COMMENCEMENT DATE
to the adjustment date in question, in the Consumer Price Index for all urban
consumers for the Los Angeles Anaheim Riverside Metropolitan Area (‘CPI-U')
as published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, U.S. Department of Labor.



 



   The inflation factor shall be equal to:



 



   IN = [ (CPI-Ua) / (CPI-UC) ]



 



   where



 



   CPI-Ua = the CPI-U for the calendar month ‘a'; and



 



   ‘a' = the calendar month in which the anniversary of the COMMENCEMENT
DATE occurs;



 



   ‘CPI-UC' = the CPI-U for the calendar month and year in which the
COMMENCEMENT DATE occurs.



 



   B.   Until the final CPI-Ua is published for the year in question,
an estimate of the CPI-Ua shall be made by the City using linear
extrapolation from the prior year's CPI-Ua to the most recently published
final CPI-U.  The City shall adjust the fee payment for the month following
the publication of the final CPI-Ua to account for any over or under payments
resulting from the use of the estimated CPI-Ua.



 



   C.   Notwithstanding the calculation methodology described herein,
at no time shall IN exceed 0.03 (three percent) in any single annual
adjustment.  If the CPI exceeds 3%, calculated at an average for a given
year, the operating fee will adjust to 75% of the average CPI in excess of
the 3% per year limit to begin the following year.



 



   D.   All fees contained in the Solid Waste Facility Fee Table in
Section 193.02 of this ordinance are subject to annual fee adjustments as
calculated above.



 



 



SEC. 193.02.  SOLID WASTE FACILITY FEE TABLE.



 



 



SEC. 193.02.1.  TRANSFER STATIONS.



 



 




Fee Category

 

Annual Fee (FY 2008-09)




Class 1

 

$740.00




Class 2

 

$10,334.00




Class 3

 

$26,574.00




Class 4

 

$42,812.00




Class 5

 

$59,053.00




Class 6

 

$75,291.00




Class 7

 

$91,531.00




Class 8

 

$107,771.00





 



   Fee Categories are defined in Section 191.01 D.



 



 



SEC. 193.02.2.  COMPOSTABLE MATERIALS HANDLING FACILITY PERMIT.



 



 


Fee Category

 

Annual Fee (2008-09)




Class 1

 

$740.00




Class 2

 

$10,334.00




Class 3

 

$26,574.00




 



   Fee Categories are defined in Section 191.02 B.



 



 



SEC. 193.02.3.  CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION AND INERT DEBRIS TRANSFER /
PROCESSING OPERATIONS AND FACILITY PERMITS.



 



 


Fee Category

 

Annual Fee (2008-09)




Class 1

 

$740.00




Class 2

 

$10,334.00




Class 3

 

$26,574.00




 



   Fee Categories are defined in Section 191.03 D.



 



 



SEC. 193.02.4.  NON-HAZARDOUS CONTAMINATED SOIL TRANSFER / PROCESSING
OPERATION.



 



 


Fee Category

 

Annual Fee (2008-09)




Class 1

 

$740.00




 



   Fee Categories are defined in Section 191.04.



 



 



SEC. 193.02.5.  NON-HAZARDOUS CONTAMINATED SOIL DISPOSAL FACILITY.



 



 


Fee Category

 

Annual Fee (2008-09)




Class 1

 

$10,334.00




 



   Fee Categories are defined in Section 191.05.



 



 



SEC. 193.02.6.  SANITARY LANDFILL.



 



 




Fee Category

 

Annual Fee (FY 2008-09)




Class A

 

$279,263.00




Class A-2

 

$473,743.00




Class B

 

$33,209.00




Class C

 

$15,097.00




Class D

 

$15,097.00




Class E

 

$3,019.00




Class F

 

$756.00




Class G

 

$22,643.00





 



   Fee Categories are defined in Section 191.06 D.



 



 



SEC. 193.02.7.  SOLID WASTE COLLECTION VEHICLE YARDS.



 



 


Fee Category

 

Annual Fee (2008-09)




Class 1

 

$664.00




 



   Fee Categories are defined in Section 191.10 G.



 



 



SEC. 193.02.8.  SOLID WASTE COLLECTION VEHICLES.



 



 


Fee Category

 

Annual Fee (2008-09)




Vehicle

 

$66.00




 



   Fee Categories are defined in Section 191.11.



 



 



SEC. 193.02.9.  TRANSFORMATION FACILITIES.



 



 


Fee Category

 

Annual Fee (2008-09)




Class 1

 

$740.00




Class 2

 

$10,334.00




Class 3

 

$26,574.00




 



   Fee Categories are defined in Section 191.12 A.



 



 



SEC. 193.02.10.  NOT USED.



 



 



SEC. 193.02.11.  CLOSED LANDFILL DEVELOPMENT SITE REVIEW FEE.



 



 


Fee Category

 

Charge




Staff time

 

$65.00/Hour




Other charges

 

Cost + 10%
Administrative fee




 



   Fee Categories are defined in Section 191.08.



 



 



SEC. 193.02.12.  SOLID WASTE FACILITY APPLICATION PERMIT REVIEW FEE.



 



 


Fee Category

 

Charge




Staff time

 

$65.00/Hour




Other charges

 

Cost + 10%
Administrative fee




 



   Fee Categories are defined in Section 192.02.



 



 



SEC. 193.02.13.  SOLID WASTE FACILITY PERMIT INSPECTION FEE.



 



 


Fee Category

 

Charge




Staff time

 

$65.00/Hour




Other charges

 

Cost + 10%
Administrative fee




 



   Fee Categories are defined in Section 192.03.



 



 



SEC. 193.02.14.  SOLID WASTE FACILITY PERMIT REVISION REVIEW FEE.



 



 


Fee Category

 

Charge




Staff time

 

$65.00/Hour




Other charges

 

Cost + 10%
Administrative fee




 



   Fee Categories are defined in Section 192.04.



 



 



SEC. 193.03.  ADDITIONAL FEES.



 



   The fee schedule listed in Section 193.02 may be increased to cover the
costs of meeting additional requirements (e.g., such as additional
environmental monitoring and/or mitigation monitoring, etc.) that may be
imposed upon a facility through the land use permitting, or other project
specific conditions that would require the LEA to expend resources and
services in excess of its normal level enforcement.



 



 



SEC. 193.04.  PENALTY FOR PAST DUE FEES.



 



   Whenever an annual Permit Fee is required to be paid and the fee is 30
calendar days past due, the fee shall be delinquent and an additional sum
equal to 25% of the fee shall be imposed for such delinquency.  The
additional sum shall become a part of the fee required by the Department.



 



 



SEC. 194.01.  SUSPENSION OF PERMIT FOR NON-PAYMENT OF FEES.



 



   A.   No privately-owned solid waste facility permittee may operate
under permitted conditions if current fees and penalties specified under this
ordinance are due and not paid.  After notification of past due fees has
been given and documented and non-payment has been verified by program
management, suspension of any and all permits can be imposed by the LEA until
all fees and penalties due to the City are paid.



 



   B.   If there is a dispute regarding the fee amount, the full amount
of the fees and any past due fees must be paid to avoid suspension of the
permit.  To appeal a fee assessment, a written appeal stating the basis of
the appeal must be filed with the LEA within 21 calendar days of the invoice
date.  After an administrative review, if fees are revised, a refund will be
issued.



 



 



SEC. 194.02.  PERMIT TRANSFERS.



 



   A permit may be transferable as determined by the Department.  The
operator must notify the Department 45 days in advance of any proposed
changes in ownership.



 



 



SEC. 194.03.  ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES.



 



   A.   Any solid waste management facility, including but not limited
to disposal facilities, transfer stations, materials recovery facilities,
recycling facilities, construction and demolition waste processing
facilities, greenwaste/wood processing facilities, and composting facilities,
or any party or person who commits any of the following acts may be liable
for administrative penalties not to exceed $1,000.00 per violation per day
imposed by the LEA:



 



   1.   Any violation of any applicable permit, rule, regulation,
standard, or operating requirement pursuant to City of Los Angeles ordinances
and codes, California Code of Regulations Title 14 and/or California Code of
Regulations Title 27 relating to the management of so/lid waste management
facilities, including but not limited to disposal facilities, transfer
stations, materials recovery facilities, recycling facilities, construction
and demolition waste facilities, greenwaste / wood processing facilities and
composting facilities.



 



   2.   Any violation of, or noncompliance with, any order issued by
the LEA relating to the operations of solid waste management facilities,
including, but not limited to, disposal facilities, transfer stations,
materials recovery facilities, recycling facilities, construction and
demolition waste processing facilities, greenwaste / wood processing
facilities and composting facilities.



 



   3.   Any false statement, misrepresentation, or omission of a
significant fact or other required information in the application for an
operating permit, manifest or log forms, or in information regarding these
matters subsequently reported to the LEA.



 



   B.   In addition to the imposition of an administrative penalty, the
LEA may:



 



   1.   Conduct corrective action to protect public and environmental
health.



 



   2.   Require payment by the facility operator for reimbursement of
expenditures.



 



   3.   Deny, suspend, or revoke all operating permits.



 



 



SEC. 194.04.  REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE.



 



   Remedies provided for the enforcement of this article are in addition
to and do not supersede or limit any and all other remedies provided by state
law or regulations.  The remedies provided herein are cumulative and not
exclusive.



 



 



SEC. 194.05.  LIABILITY FOR COSTS OF CORRECTION ARISING FROM VIOLATION.



 



   In addition to any fine or penalty imposed, whenever a solid waste
facility operator causes any violation of this Chapter, said operator shall
be liable to the City for reasonable costs necessary to correct that
violation, including, but not limited to labor, material, inspection,
transportation, overhead and incidental expenses associated with the
corrective action.  If the costs are not paid within 30 days of the invoice
date, an additional charge equal to 25% of the required reimbursement shall
be added to the reimbursement.



 



 



SEC. 194.06.  CRITERIA TO IMPOSE AN ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTY.



 



   In assessing the amount of an administrative penalty, factors to be
considered may include, but are not limited to, the following:



 



   A.   The nature, circumstances, extent and gravity of the violation.



 



   B.   Evidence that the violation was willful or negligent.



 



   C.   The good or bad faith exhibited by the party.



 



   D.   History of violation of the same or similar nature.



 



   E.   Whether the violations was due to circumstances that were
unavoidable or beyond the operator's reasonable control.



 



   F.   The extent to which the party has cooperated with the LEA in
correcting the violation.



 



   G.   The extent that the owner or operator has mitigated or
attempted to mitigate any damage or injury caused by his or her violation.



 



   H.   Evidence of any financial gain resulting from the violation,



 



   I.   Cost to the LEA to conduct additional monitoring and related
enforcement activities to correct violations.



 



   J.   Other matters as justice or other equitable considerations may
warrant.



 



 



SEC. 194.07.  APPEAL OF ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTY.



 



   A.   Owners and/or operators of facilities that are assessed an
administrative penalty and/or monetary fine may appeal by filing a written
request within 15 calendar days to the LEA to convene a meeting of the LEA's
Independent Hearing Panel.



 



   B.   Within 15 calendar days after the LEA's receipt of the written
request to convene a Hearing Panel meeting to hear an appeal, the LEA shall
provide written notice to the owner/operator of the scheduled date, time and
place of the Hearing Panel meeting and requiring that a statement of issues
that require a hearing be filed by the appellant at least 20 calendar days
prior to the date of the hearing.



 



   C.   The Hearing Panel must convene within 45 calendar days of the
date of the LEA's receipt of the written request from the facility
owner/operator unless the owner/operator and the LEA mutually waive the
timeline.



 



   D.   If the statement of issues is not filed, the LEA may affirm the
administrative penalty and/or fine without a hearing, or may, at its
discretion, proceed with a hearing before deciding whether or not to affirm
the penalty or fine.



 



 



SEC. 194.08.  USE OF FUNDS.



 



   Administrative penalties and/or fines shall be deposited into a special
LEA's Environmental Trust Fund account for use only in support of LEA
activities.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 2
CARRYOUT BAGS



 




(Added by Ord. No. 182,604, Eff. 8/1/13.*)




 



[*Note: Section 3 of Ord. No. 182,604 provides that Article 2 shall become
operative on January 1, 2014, for all stores defined in subsections K.(1) and
K.(2) of Section 195.01, and that Article 2 shall become operative on July 1,
2014, for all stores defined in Subsection K.(3) of Section 195.01.]



 



 



Section



195.01   Definitions.



195.02   Prohibited Carryout Bags.



195.03   Permitted Carryout Bags.



195.04   Use of Reusable Bags.



195.05   Exemptions.



195.06   Enforcement.



195.07   Severability.



195.08   No Conflict with Federal or State Law.



 



 



SEC. 195.01.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   The following definitions apply to this Article:



 



   A.   Customer means any person purchasing goods from a Store.



 



   B.   Operator means the person in control of, or having the
responsibility for, the operation of a Store, including, but not limited to,
the owner of the Store.



 



   C.   Paper Single-Use Carryout Bag means any bag made predominantly
of paper materials, including, but not limited to, virgin, recycled or
recyclable paper materials, which is provided to a Customer at the point of
sale.  Paper Single-Use Carryout Bag does not include Reusable Bags, Produce
Bags, or Product Bags.



 



   D.   Person means any natural person, firm, corporation,
partnership, or other organization or group however organized.



 



   E.   Plastic Single-Use Carryout Bag means any bag made
predominantly of plastic derived from petroleum, natural gas, or a
biologically-based source, such as corn or other plant sources, which is
provided to a customer at the point of sale.  Plastic Single-Use Carryout
Bag includes compostable and biodegradable bags, but does not include
Reusable Bags, Produce Bags, or Product Bags.



 



   F.   Postconsumer Recycled Material means a material that would
otherwise be destined for solid waste disposal, having completed its intended
end use and product life cycle.  Postconsumer Recycled Material does not
include materials and by-products generated from, and commonly reused within,
an original manufacturing and fabrication process.



 



   G.   Produce Bag and Product Bag mean any bag without handles used
exclusively to carry produce, meats, or other food items to the point of sale
inside a store or to prevent such food items from coming into direct contact
with other purchased items.



 



   H.   Recyclable means material that can be sorted, cleansed, and
reconstituted using available recycling collection programs for the purpose
of using the altered form in the manufacture of a new product.



 



   I.   Recyclable Paper Single-Use Carryout Bag means a Paper
Single-Use Carryout Bag that meets all of the following requirements:



 



   (1)   is one hundred percent (100%) recyclable overall and contains
a minimum of forty percent (40%) Postconsumer Recycled Material;



 



   (2)   has printed on the bag the name of the manufacturer, the
country where the bag was manufactured, and the percentage of Postconsumer
Recycled Material used in making the bag;



 



   (3)   displays the word "Recyclable" in a minimum 14-point type
size; and



 



   (4)    contains no old growth fiber.



 



   J.   Reusable Bag means a bag with handles that is specifically
designed and manufactured for multiple reuse and meets all of the following
requirements:



 



   (1)   has a minimum lifetime of 125 uses, which for purposes of this
Article means the capability of carrying a minimum of 22 pounds, 125 times
over a distance of at least 175 feet;



 



   (2)   has a minimum volume of 15 liters;



 



   (3)   is machine washable or is made of a material that can be
cleaned or disinfected;



 



   (4)   does not contain lead in an amount greater than 89 ppm, nor
contain total heavy metals (lead, hexavalent chromium, cadmium, and mercury)
in an amount greater than 99 ppm, unless lower heavy metal limits are imposed
by applicable state or federal law, in which case such standards shall apply;



 



   (5)   has printed on the bag, or on a tag that is permanently
affixed to the bag, (i) the name of the manufacturer, (ii) the country where
the bag was manufactured, (iii) a statement that the bag does not contain
lead, cadmium, or any other heavy metal in toxic amounts, (iv) the percentage
of Postconsumer Recycled Material used, if any, and (v) bag care and washing
instructions; and



 



   (6)   if made of plastic, is a minimum of at least 2.25 mils thick.



 



   K.   Store means any of the following retail establishments located
within the City of Los Angeles:



 



   (1)   a full-line, self-service retail store with gross annual sales
of two million dollars ($2,000,000.00), or more, that sells a line of dry
grocery, canned goods, or nonfood items and some perishable items;



 



   (2)   a store of at least 10,000 square feet of retail space that
generates sales or use tax pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales
and Use Tax Law (Part 1.5 (commencing with Section 7200) of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code) and that has a pharmacy licensed pursuant to
Chapter 9 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 2 of the Business and
Professions Code; or



 



   (3)   a drug store, pharmacy, supermarket, grocery store,
convenience food store, foodmart, or other entity engaged in the retail sale
of a limited line of goods that includes milk, bread, soda, and snack foods,
including those stores with a Type 20 or 21 license issued by the Department
of Alcoholic Beverage Control.



 



 



SEC. 195.02.  PROHIBITED CARRYOUT BAGS.



 



   A.   No Store shall provide to any Customer a Plastic Single-Use
Carryout Bag for the purpose of carrying away goods or other materials from
the point of sale.



 



   B.   No Store shall provide to any Customer a Paper Single-Use
Carryout Bag for the purpose of carrying away goods or other materials from
the point of sale, except as otherwise provided in this Article.



 



 



SEC. 195.03.  PERMITTED CARRYOUT BAGS.



 



   A.   All Stores shall provide or make available to a Customer only
Recyclable Paper Single-Use Carryout Bags or Reusable Bags for the purpose of
carrying away goods or other materials from the point of sale, subject to the
terms of this Article.  Nothing in this Article prohibits Customers from
using bags of any type that they bring to the Store themselves or from
carrying away goods that are not placed in a bag, in lieu of using bags
provided by the Store.



 



   B.   Beginning January 1, 2014, for all Stores defined in
Subsections K(1) and (2) of Section 195.01, and beginning July 1, 2014, for
all Stores defined in Subsection K(3) of Section 195.01, Stores may provide
to their Customers Recyclable Paper Single-Use Carryout Bags for the purpose
of carrying away goods or other materials from the point of sale, subject to
the following requirements:



 



   (1)   Customers shall be charged ten cents ($0.10) for each
Recyclable Paper Single-Use Carryout Bag provided; and



 



   (2)   Every Customer receipt must specify the number of Recyclable
Paper Single-Use Carryout Bags provided to that Customer and the total amount
charged to the Customer for those bags.



 



   C.   All monies collected by a Store pursuant to Subsection C. of
this Section will be retained by the Store and may only be used for any of
the following purposes:



 



   (1)   costs associated with complying with the requirements of this
Article;



 



   (2)   actual costs of providing Recyclable Paper Single-Use Carryout
Bags; and



 



   (3)   costs associated with a Store's educational materials or
education campaign encouraging the use of Reusable Bags.



 



   D.   All Stores must report to the Department of Public Works, on a
quarterly basis, the total number of Recyclable Paper Single-Use Carryout
Bags provided, the total amount of monies collected for providing Recyclable
Paper Single-Use Carryout Bags, if applicable, and a summary of any efforts
the Store has undertaken to promote the use of Reusable Bags by Customers in
the prior quarter.  Such reporting must be done on a form prescribed by the
Department of Public Works, and must be signed by a responsible agent or
officer of the Store confirming that the information provided on the form is
accurate and complete.  Quarterly reports must be submitted no later than
thirty (30) days following the end of the quarter for which the report is
made.



 



 



SEC. 195.04.  USE OF REUSABLE BAGS.



 



   A.   All stores shall provide Reusable Bags to Customers, either for
sale or at no charge.



 



   B.   All Stores are urged to educate Store staff to promote Reusable
Bags and to post signs encouraging Customers to use and maintain Reusable
Bags.



 



 



SEC. 195.05.  EXEMPTIONS.



 



   Stores that provide Recyclable Paper Single-Use Carryout Bags pursuant
to Section 195.03 of this Article shall provide such bags or Reusable
Carryout Bags or both, at the Store's option, free of charge to any Customer
participating either in the California Special Supplemental Food Program for
Women, Infants, and Children pursuant to Article 2 (commencing with Section
123275) of Chapter 1 of Part 2 of Division 106 of the Health and Safety Code
or in the Supplemental Food Program pursuant to Chapter 10 (commencing with
Section 15500) of Part 3 of Division 9 of the Welfare and Institutions Code.



 



 



SEC. 195.06.  ENFORCEMENT.



 



   A.   The Department of Public Works has primary responsibility for
enforcement of this Article. The Department of Public Works is authorized to
promulgate regulations and to take any and all other actions reasonable and
necessary to enforce this Article, including but not limited to,
investigating violations, issuing fines and entering the premises of any
store during business hours.



 



   B.   If the Department of Public Works determines that a violation
of this Article has occurred, it will issue a written notice to the Operator
of the Store that a violation has occurred and the potential penalties that
will apply for future violations.



 



   C.   If a Store violates any of the requirements of this Article
after a written notice has been issued pursuant to Subsection B. of this
Section for that violation, the following penalties will be imposed and shall
be payable by the Operator of the Store:



 



   (1)   A fine not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the
first violation that occurs following written notice pursuant to Subsection
B. of this Section;



 



   (2)   A fine not exceeding two hundred dollars ($200.00) for the
second violation that occurs following written notice pursuant to Subsection
B. of this Section;



 



   (3)   A fine not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) for the
third and any subsequent violation(s) that occurs following written notice
pursuant to Subsection B. of this Section.



 



   D.   A fine shall be imposed for each day a violation occurs or is
allowed to continue.



 



   E.   All fines collected pursuant to this Article shall be deposited
into the Citywide Recycling Trust Fund (CRTF) of the Department of Public
Works to assist the department with its costs of implementing and enforcing
the requirements of this Article.



 



   F.   Any Operator who receives a written notice or fine pursuant to
this section may request an administrative review of the accuracy of the
determination or the propriety of any fine issued by filing a written notice
of appeal with the Board of Public Works no later than thirty (30) days after
receipt of a written notice or fine, as applicable.  The notice of appeal
must include all facts supporting the appeal and any supporting
documentation, including copies of all photos, statements and other documents
that the appellant wishes to be considered in connection with the appeal. 
The appeal will be heard by the Board of Public Works.  The Board of Public
Works will conduct a publicly noticed hearing concerning the appeal within
forty-five (45) days from the date that the notice of appeal is filed, or on
a later date if agreed upon by the appellant and the Board of Public Works,
and will give the appellant at least ten (10) days prior written notice of
the date of the hearing.  The Board of Public Works may sustain, rescind, or
modify the written notice or fine, as applicable.  The Board of Public Works
will have the power to waive any portion of the fine in a manner consistent
with its decision.  The decision of the Board of Public Works is final and
effective on the date of the Board hearing where its decision is made.



 



 



SEC. 195.07.  SEVERABILITY.



 



   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this Article
is for any reason held to be invalid by a decision of any court of competent
jurisdiction, that decision will not affect the validity of the remaining
portions of the Article.  The Los Angeles City Council hereby declares that
it would have adopted this Article and each and every section, subsection,
sentence, clause, or phrase not declared invalid or unconstitutional without
regard to whether any portion of this Article would be subsequently declared
invalid.



 



 



SEC. 195.08.  NO CONFLICT WITH FEDERAL OR STATE LAW.



 



   Nothing in this Article is intended to create any requirement, power or
duty that is in conflict with any federal or state law.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 3
DISPOSABLE PLASTIC DRINKING STRAWS



 




(Added by Ord. No. 186,028, Eff. 4/21/19.)




 



 



Section



196.01   Definitions.



196.02   Regulation of Distribution of Disposable Plastic Straws in the
City of Los Angeles.



196.03   Exemptions.



196.04   Enforcement.



196.05   Severability.



196.06   No Conflict with Federal or State Law.



 



 



SEC. 196.01.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   The following definitions apply to this article:



 



   A.   City means the City of Los Angeles.



 



   B.   Customer means an individual, the individual's agent or
caregiver.



 



   C.   Delivery Customer means a Customer who purchases Prepared Food
or Beverages from a Food or Beverage Facility and has the Prepared Food or
Beverages delivered to him or her by the Food or Beverage Facility or by a
third party delivery service.



 



   D.   Designated Administrative Agency (DAA) means the Department of
Public Works, Bureau of Sanitation.



 



   E.   Dine-in Customer means a Customer who purchases Prepared Food
or Beverages at a Food or Beverage Facility and consumes it on the premises
of the Food or Beverage Facility.



 



   F.   Disposable Plastic Drinking Straw means a hollow tube for
sucking a liquid or semi-liquid substance that constitutes Prepared Food or
Beverages, which is designed for a single use, and made from fossil fuel
based polymers including, but not limited to, high-density polyethylene,
low-density polyethylene, polyethylene terephthalate, polystyrene,
polypropylene, polyvinyl chloride, polycarbonate that can be molded or blown
into shape while soft and then set into a rigid or slightly elastic form, and
any straw made from or labeled "bioplastic/compostable/poly-lactic acid
(PLA)".



 



   G.   Drive-through Customer means a Customer who purchases Prepared
Food or Beverages at a Food or Beverage Facility and is provided the Prepared
Food and/or Beverages without leaving his or her vehicle.



 



   H.   Food or Beverage Facility means a facility located in the City
of Los Angeles that sells or otherwise provides Prepared Food or Beverages
for consumption on or off its premises, and includes, but is not limited to,
a shop, sales outlet, restaurant, bar, pub, coffee shop, coffee stand, juice
bar, cafeteria, caterer, convenience store, liquor store, grocery store,
supermarket, delicatessen, mobile food truck, roadside stand, kiosks, carts,
or a Vendor (as defined in Section 42.13 in the Los Angeles Municipal Code or
any successor provision) or any organization, group or individual that
regularly provides Prepared Food or Beverages as part of its service.



 



   I.   Large Food or Beverage Facility means a Food or Beverage
Facility with more than 26 employees.  If the Food or Beverage Facility is
part of a Statewide or National Food or Beverage Vendor, the employee count
shall include all employees of that chain.



 



   J.   Operator means the Person in control of, or having the
responsibility for, the operation of a Food or Beverage Facility, including,
but not limited to, the owner of the Food or Beverage Facility.



 



   K.   Person means a natural person, joint venture, joint stock
company, partnership, association, club, company, corporation, business
trust, or organization, or the manager, lessee, agent, servant, office or
employee of any of them.



 



   L.   Prepared Food or Beverage means foods or beverages that are
prepared by cooking, chopping, slicing, mixing, freezing, squeezing, brewing,
boiling, steeping, pouring, or other processing and that require no further
preparation by the customer before consumption.  "Prepared Food or Beverage"
does not include raw uncooked whole fruits or vegetables which are not
chopped, squeezed, or mixed, or raw uncooked meat products.



 



   M.   Statewide or National Food or Beverage Vendor means any Food or
Beverage Facility located in Los Angeles that is part of a chain of
franchised or corporate-owned Food or Beverage Facilities located in Los
Angeles and in more than one other jurisdiction outside of Los Angeles.



 



   N.   Take-out Customer means a Customer who purchases Prepared Food
or Beverages at a Food or Beverage Facility and consumes it off the premises
of the Food or Beverage Facility.



 



 



SEC. 196.02.  REGULATION OF DISTRIBUTION OF DISPOSABLE PLASTIC STRAWS IN THE
CITY OF LOS ANGELES.



 



   A.   Beginning April 22, 2019, a Large Food or Beverage Facility
shall display on their premises advisory notices informing Customers about
the Disposable Plastic Drinking Straws Ordinance and the environmental impact
of Disposable Plastic Drinking Straws.  The advisory notices shall comply
with guidelines promulgated by the DAA.  A Large Food or Beverage Facility
shall be prohibited from having self-serve/self-service Disposable Plastic
Drinking Straw dispensers, and from providing or offering a Disposable
Plastic Drinking Straw to a Dine-in Customer or Take-out Customer, except
upon Customer request.  A Large Food or Beverage Facility shall be permitted
to ask a Drive-through Customer or Delivery Customer if he or she wants a
Disposable Plastic Drinking Straw, but shall be prohibited from providing a
Disposable Plastic Drinking Straw to a Drive-through Customer and Delivery
Customer, except upon Customer request.  A request is not limited to a
verbal request, it may be any reasonable affirmation of the Customer's intent
to procure a Disposable Plastic Drinking Straw.



 



   B.   Beginning October 1, 2019, all other Food or Beverage
Facilities shall comply with the requirements of Section 196.02 A.



 



 



SEC. 196.03.  EXEMPTIONS.



 



   A.   Licensed Health Facilities, as defined in Section 1250 of the
California Health and Safety Code, shall be exempt from the requirements of
this article.



 



 



SEC. 196.04.  ENFORCEMENT.



 



   A.   The DAA is authorized to promulgate rules and regulations for
the implementation and enforcement of this article, consistent with the
provisions herein. The DAA is authorized to take actions reasonable and
necessary to enforce this article, including, but not limited to, receiving
and responding to complaints, investigating violations, issuing fines and
entering the premises of any Food or Beverage Facility during business hours.



 



   B.   Enforcement of the requirements of this article shall commence
on October 1, 2019, or six months after the effective date of this ordinance,
whichever is later.



 



   C.   Written notice of a violation of this article shall be served,
by First Class mail, on the Operator of the Food or Beverage Facility.



 



   D.   A Food or Beverage Facility shall be subject to the following:



 



   1.   A written notice for a first and second violation.



 



   2.   An administrative fine of $25 for a third violation and each
subsequent violation.  The administrative fine of $25 shall be imposed for
each day the Food or Beverage Facility is in violation, but shall not exceed
$300 per calendar year.



 



   E.   An administrative fine shall be due and payable to the City
within 30 calendar days from the date the written notice of violation is
served.  Failure to timely pay a fine shall result in the assessment of a
late fee, assessed daily at a rate of 7 percent per annum of the outstanding
amount of the fine and late fees, if any.  The City may collect any unpaid
fine, including the late fee, by means of a civil action in accordance with
applicable law.  All fines collected pursuant to this article shall be
deposited into the Citywide Recycling Trust Fund (CRTF) of the Department of
Public Works to assist the department with its costs of implementing and
enforcing the requirements of this article.



 



   F.   An Operator who receives a written notice of violation pursuant
to this article may request an administrative review of the accuracy of the
violation determination by filing a signed, written notice of appeal with the
Director of the Bureau of Sanitation, or his/her designee, no later than 30
days from the date the notice of violation was served.  The appeal must
include all facts supporting the appeal and any supporting documentation,
including copies of all photos, statements, and other documents that the
appellant wishes to be considered in connection with the appeal. The Director
of the Bureau of Sanitation, or his/her designee, may sustain, rescind, or
modify the notice of violation and/or administrative fine, as applicable. 
The Director of the Bureau of Sanitation, or his/her designee, may waive any
portion of the administrative fine in a manner consistent with its
decision.  The accrual of fines and fees shall be stayed until the decision
of the Director of the Bureau of Sanitation, or his/her designee, is final. 
The decision of the Director of the Bureau of Sanitation, or his/her
designee, is final and effective on the date when the decision is served, by
First Class mail, on the Operator.



 



 



SEC. 196.05.  SEVERABILITY.



 



   If any provision of this article is found to be unconstitutional or
otherwise invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, that invalidity
shall not affect the remaining provisions of this article which can be
implemented without the invalid provisions, and to this end, the provisions
of this article are declared to be severable.  The City Council hereby
declares that it would have adopted this article and each provision thereof
irrespective of whether any one or more provisions are found invalid,
unconstitutional or otherwise unenforceable.



 



 



SEC. 196.06  NO CONFLICT WITH FEDERAL OR STATE LAW.



 



   Nothing in this article is intended to create any requirement, power or
duty that is in conflict with any federal or state law.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 4
CALIFORNIA ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY ACT ("CEQA") APPEALS



 




(Added by Ord. No. 186,254, Eff. 9/24/19.)




 



 



Section



197.01   CEQA Appeals.



 



 



SEC. 197.01.  CEQA APPEALS.



 



   A.   Applicability.  This section shall apply to environmental
determinations made by nonelected decisionmaking bodies or individuals,
except that this section shall not apply to actions taken by departments
established pursuant to Charter Section 600, or actions authorized by Chapter
1 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.



 



   B.   Environmental Determinations Subject to Appeal.  Pursuant to
California Public Resources Code Section 21151(c), the following actions
taken by a nonelected decisionmaking body or individual may be appealed to
City Council: (1) certification of an environmental impact report; (2)
adoption of a negative declaration or mitigated negative declaration; or (3)
a written determination that a project is not subject to CEQA (each an
"Environmental Determination"), provided that this section does not apply
when the action by the nonelected decisionmaking body or individual is made
appealable to, or is required to be reviewed by, City Council pursuant to any
other provision of law.



 



   C.   Time to File an Appeal.  Any appeal of an Environmental
Determination made by a nonelected decisionmaking body or individual ("CEQA
Appeal") shall be filed the earliest of:  (i) prior to the expiration of ten
(10) days following the filing of either a Notice of Exemption or Notice of
Determination in compliance with CEQA; or (ii) one hundred and eighty (180)
days following the Environmental Determination made by a nonelected
decisionmaking body or individual if no Notice of Exemption or Notice of
Determination is filed.



 



   D.   Place to File.  The CEQA Appeal and all supporting documents
must be filed in the Office of the City Clerk, and a complete copy filed
concurrently in the office of the nonelected decisionmaking body or
individual whose Environmental Determination is being appealed.



 



   E.   Contents of CEQA Appeal.  All CEQA Appeals shall be in writing
on a form provided by the City Clerk or, if no such form is provided, shall
contain the following:



 



   1.   A cover sheet that:



 



   (a)   Identifies the filing as a CEQA Appeal under Los Angeles
Municipal Code Section 197.01;



 



   (b)   Identifies the nonelected decision-making body or individual
whose Environmental Determination is being appealed;



 



   (c)   Identifies the Environmental Determination being appealed and
the date on which the nonelected decisionmaking body or individual made such
Environmental Determination;



 



   (d)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person filing
the CEQA Appeal (the "Appellant"); and



 



   (e)   Legal basis for the CEQA Appeal.



 



   2.   Within ten (10) days of filing the CEQA appeal, Appellant shall
submit to the City Clerk all documentary evidence, other supporting material,
and written argument that Appellant wishes to present to the City Council. 
The written argument shall specify all grounds for the CEQA Appeal,
specifying in detail why the Appellant contends that the Environmental
Determination does not comply with CEQA.



 



   F.   Notice of Council Action.  Before the City Council acts on the
CEQA Appeal, the matter shall be heard at a public meeting.  At least ten
(10) days' notice of the public meeting shall be given by mail to the
Appellant; the recipient of any approval issued in connection the challenged
Environmental Determination, if any; and any person or entity that has
requested notice pursuant to California Public Resources Code Section 21092.2.



 



   G.   Time to File Additional Documents.  Any and all additional
argument, whether in support of or in opposition to the CEQA Appeal,
including any staff report responding to the CEQA Appeal, and any additional
evidence, must be filed with the City Clerk at least five (5) days prior to
the date set for the public meeting.



 



   H.   City Council Decision.  Within seventy-five (75) days of the
filing of a CEQA Appeal, City Council shall hear and decide the matter, or
upon a determination that good cause exists, continue the matter for a
reasonable period of time.



 



   I.   Stay of Project Approval.  If a timely CEQA Appeal has been
filed, then pending resolution of the CEQA Appeal, the action by the
nonelected decisionmaking body or individual shall be stayed and no permits
may issue and no work based thereon may proceed.



 



   J.   Exhaustion of Administrative Remedies.  No person entitled to
file a CEQA Appeal pursuant to this section may initiate action in a court of
law challenging the Environmental Determination unless and until such person
files the CEQA Appeal and the City Council has taken final action on the CEQA
Appeal.



 



   K.   Severability.  If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or
phrase of this section is for any reason held to be invalid or
unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall
not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this ordinance.  The
City Council hereby declares that it would have adopted this section, and
each and every subsection, sentence, clause and phrase thereof not declared
invalid or unconstitutional, without regard to whether any portion of the
ordinance would be subsequently declared invalid or unconstitutional.



 



 



 



 


