

Los Angeles Municipal Code


CHAPTER IV
PUBLIC WELFARE



 



 



   Article



 




   1   Disorderly Conduct Places and Publications











   2   Soliciting – Sales











   3   Gambling, Fraud and Deceit











   4   Philanthropy











   4.5   Bingo











   5   Minors











   5.2   Cannabis Regulation and Enforcement











   5.2.5   Restrictions on Signs Advertising Tobacco Products











   5.4   Prohibition Against Harassment and Retaliation in Housing
Based on Immigration or Citizenship Status











   5.5   Prohibition Against Discrimination in Housing Based on Age











   5.6   Prohibition Against Discrimination Based on Student Status











   5.6.1   Protecting Affordable Housing Opportunities for Persons
Using Rental Assistance or Other Sources of Income as Payment











   5.7   Prohibition of Discrimination in Mobilehome Parks Against
Owners of Mobilehomes Based on the Age of Their Mobilehomes











   5.8   Prohibition Against Discrimination Based on a Person Suffering
From the Medical Condition AIDS, or Any Medical Signs or Symptoms Related
Thereto, or Any Perception That a Person Is Suffering from the Medical
Condition AIDS Whether Real or Imaginary











   5.9   Prohibition Against Discrimination by Clubs or Organizations
Which Are Not Distinctly Private











   5.10   Prohibition Against Harassment of Bicyclists











   6   Preservation of Protected Trees











   6.4   Restrictions on Butane Sales











   6.5   Regulation of Over-the-Counter Drugs











   6.6   Bath Salts – Sale and Use Prohibited











   6.7   Large-Capacity Magazines – Possession Prohibited











   6.7.1   Suicide Prevention Signs











   6.8   Alcoholic Beverages – Warning Signs











   6.9   Tobacco Retailer’s Permit











   7   Miscellaneous











   7.1   Residential Hotel Unit Conversion and Demolition











   7.2   Mortgage Modification Consultants











   8   Municipal Lobbying











   9.5   Municipal Ethics and Conflicts of Interest











   9.7   Campaign Financing











   11   Municipal Mass Mailings











   12   Discrimination on the Basis of Sexual Orientation











   13   Prohibition on the Manufacture, Sale, and Distribution of
Polystyrene Plastics Products











   14   Graffiti Removal and Recovery











   14.1   Eviction of Tenants from Foreclosed Residential Rental
Properties











   14.5   Temporary Prohibition of No-Fault Evictions











   15   Urgent Repair Program











   16   Civil and Human Rights Law




 




   17   Pet Ownership in Publicly-Financed Housing Developments




 



 



 



ARTICLE 1
DISORDERLY CONDUCT
PLACES AND PUBLICATIONS



 



 



Section



41.03   Lookouts for Illegal Acts.



41.14   Injury to Public Property.



41.16   Snuff – Throwing of.



41.17   Library Books – Retention After Notice.



41.18   Sidewalks, Pedestrian Subways – Loitering.



41.19   Public Assemblages – Obstructing Entrance.



41.20   Closure of Streets.



41.20.1   Special Event Application Process and Definitions.



41.21   Cutting into Gasoline Lines Prohibited.



41.22   Loitering – River Bed.



41.23   Trespass on Housing Authority Property.



41.24   Trespass on Private Property.



41.27   Intoxication.



41.29   Hand Organs on Streets.



41.30   Spite Fences.



41.31   Trees – Injury to.



41.32   Theatres – Sound Amplifiers.



41.33   Landlords – Disturbing Tenants.



41.34   Pesticides – Notice to Tenants.



41.38   Use of Certain Signs on Vehicles Prohibited.



41.39   Stowaways – Entry a Misdemeanor.



41.40   Noise Due to Construction, Excavation Work – When Prohibited.



41.41   Evading Payment of Admission Fee.



41.42   Music Reproducing Devices – Hours of Operation.



41.43.1   Door to Door Selling or Soliciting.



41.44   Miniature Golf Courses and Driving Fairways.



41.45   Unauthorized Removal, Use or Possession of Shopping Carts.



41.46   Sidewalks – Cleaning of.



41.47   Water Closets – Use of.



41.47.1   Restroom Facilities.



41.47.2   Urinating or Defecating in Public.



41.48   Restaurants – Minimum Light Intensity.



41.49   Hotel Registers and Room Rentals.



41.50   Smoking Prohibited in Designated Areas.



41.50.1   Use of Smokeless Tobacco Prohibited at Event Sites for Organized
Sporting Events.



41.51   Smoking in Elevators Prohibited.



41.52   Smoking in Buses.



41.53   Public Bath Houses.



41.54   Fishing Within One Mile of Public Sewer Outlet.



41.55   Oil – Discharge in Ocean and Beaches.



41.56   Unlawful Activities at Sporting Events, Theatricals and
Exhibitions.



41.57   Loud and Raucous Noise Prohibited.



41.58   Loud Party Second Response Fee.



41.58.1   Loud or Unruly Gatherings.



41.59   Prohibition Against Certain Forms of Aggressive Solicitation.



41.60   Hospitals; Patient Transport.



41.70   Nuisance Abatement of Motor Vehicles Used in the Commission or
Attempted Commission of an Act That Violates California Penal Code Section
266(h), or 266(i), or 374.3, or 647(b).



41.70.1   Nuisance Vehicles – Controlled Substances.



41.70.2   Nuisance Vehicles – Speed Contests and Exhibitions of Speed.



41.70.3   Nuisance Vehicles – Illegal Dumping.



41.71   Gang-Related Nuisance Vehicle Forfeiture.



41.72   Counterfeit Goods Nuisance Abatement Law.



 



 



SEC. 41.03.  LOOKOUTS FOR ILLEGAL ACTS.



 



   (a)   No person shall act as a guard or lookout for any building
premises or establishment used for gambling, prostitution, or any other form
of vice or illegal act, or where intoxicating liquors are illegally kept,
sold or purchased, or for any person soliciting, offering or engaging in
prostitution, gambling or any other form of vice, or illegal act, or any
prostitute, or any street or sidewalk.



 



   (b)   No person shall give any signal, intended to, or calculated to
warn, or give warning of the approach of any peace officer to any person in
or about such building or premises or places mentioned in the preceding
subsection.



 



   It is not necessary to show that the signal was given for any persons,
it is sufficient if it is given to a person in the places mentioned.



   People v. Hayes, CR A 1658.



 



   but see:



   People v. Mulder, CR A 2356.



 



 



SEC. 41.14.  INJURY TO PUBLIC PROPERTY.



 



   No person shall cut, break, destroy, remove, deface, tamper with, mar,
injure, disfigure, interfere with, damage, tear, remove, change or alter any:



 



   (a)   part of any building belonging to this City;



 



   (b)   drinking fountain situated on any public street or sidewalk or
any appliance used in or about such foundation;



 




   (c)   (1)   electric lamp erected or suspended on or over any
street, sidewalk or park and used in the lighting thereof, or any wire or
other apparatus immediately attached to such lamp;




 



   (2)   any lamp standard or lamp pole, nor attach thereto any banner,
pennant, streamer, flag, sign, picture, wire, rope or other attachment of any
kind for any purpose without first obtaining a permit to do so, as required
by Sec. 62.132 of this Code;



 



   (d)   parts or appurtenances of the fire alarm, telegraph system or
police signal system, lamp post, street sign post, fire alarm box, police
signal box, post, standard, or pole or any fixture or apparatus used about or
in connection with any such post, box, standard or pole;



 



   (e)   life buoy, life preserver, life boat, rope, gang or other
materials, property or apparatus owned by this City and used or intended to
be used for the purpose of saving life except when necessary for that purpose;



 



   (f)   public bridge or any portion thereof;



 



   (g)   water main, pipe, conduit, hydrant, reservoir or ditch, or to
tap the same without permission of the Board of Water and Power Commissioners;



 



   (h)   water meter or any box containing any pipe, stop-cock or
cut-off valve of the Department of Water and Power of this City or cover the
same with earth, brick, stone, mortar, debris, or building material;



 



   (i)   tree, shrub, tree stake or guard in any public street, or
affix or attach in any manner any other thing whatsoever, including any guy
wire or rope, to any tree, shrub, tree stake or guard except for the purpose
of protecting it or unless otherwise authorized by this Code;



 



   (j)   property owned by any public utility located on any street or
sidewalk;



 



   (k)   other property owned or leased by this City, the County of Los
Angeles, the State of California or the United States government or any
political subdivision or department thereof, and not specifically enumerated
in this section;



 



   (l)   public document, notice or advertisement or any private or
legal document required to be posted or exhibited in the manner and place
provided by law, or any copy of any ordinance posted in any public building
or place, or on private property when such public notice or ordinance is
required by law to be placed or posted thereon.



 



 



SEC. 41.16.  SNUFF – THROWING OF.



 



   No person shall throw, blow or otherwise scatter on any street,
sidewalk, restaurant, cafe, theatre, place of amusement or other public place
any snuff, or any substance which injuriously affects the olfactory nerves or
which causes sneezing or coughing or otherwise injuriously affects the person.



 



 



SEC. 41.17.  LIBRARY BOOKS – RETENTION AFTER NOTICE.



 



   No person shall retain any book, newspaper, magazine, pamphlet,
manuscript, or other property belonging in or to, or on deposit with the
Public Library or any branch reading room, or deposit station thereof
operated in connection therewith, for a period exceeding thirty days after
notification by the first class mail to the borrower’s address on file with
said library, given after article or other property may be kept, which notice
so mailed shall bear on its face a copy of this section.



 



 



SEC. 41.18.  SIDEWALKS, PEDESTRIAN SUBWAYS – LOITERING.



 



   (a)   No person shall stand in or upon any street, sidewalk or other
public way open for pedestrian travel or otherwise occupy any portion thereof
in such a manner as to annoy or molest any pedestrian thereon or so as to
obstruct or unreasonably interfere with the free passage of pedestrians. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 137,269, Eff. 10/21/68.)



 



   Whether or not a defendant’s acts “in any manner hindered or
obstructed the free-passage” of persons passing is clearly a question of
fact for the jury.



   People v. Firestone, CR A 518.



 



   Where free-passage along sidewalks is obstructed by persons listening
to what is said at a street-meeting, the persons conducting said meeting
cannot be convicted of a violation of this section in the absence of other
facts.



   People v. Yoneda, CR A 249.



 



   (b)   No person shall loiter in any tunnel, pedestrian subway, or on
any bridge overpass, or at or near the entrance thereto or exit therefrom, or
at or near any abutment or retaining wall adjacent to such entrance or exit,
or any retaining wall or abutment adjacent to any freeway, street or highway
open and used for vehicular traffic, or adjacent to that portion thereof used
for vehicular traffic, or on any public property in the proximity of such
bridge, overpass, or retaining wall or abutment.



 



   Sec. 41.18 has not been preempted by State Legislation encompassing
loitering offenses.



   Gleason v. Municipal Court (April 1964), 226 Cal. App. 2d-226 ACA 701.



 



   (c)   No person in or about any pedestrian subway, shall annoy or
molest another or make any remark to or concerning another to the annoyance
of such other person, and no person shall commit any nuisance in or about
such subway.



 



   (d)   (Amended by Ord. No. 137,269, Eff. 10/21/68.) No person shall
sit, lie or sleep in or upon any street, sidewalk or other public way.



 



   The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to persons sitting on
the curb portion of any sidewalk or street while attending or viewing any
parade permitted under the provisions of Section 103.111 of Article 2,
Chapter X of this Code; nor shall the provisions of this subsection apply to
persons sitting upon benches or other seating facilities provided for such
purpose by municipal authority or permitted by this Code.



 



 



SEC. 41.19.  PUBLIC ASSEMBLAGES – OBSTRUCTING ENTRANCE.



 



   No person shall sit or stand on or at the entrance of any church, hall,
theatre or other place of public assemblage in any manner so as to obstruct
such entrance.



 



 



SEC. 41.20.  CLOSURE OF STREETS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 183,135, Eff. 7/8/14.)



 



   (a)   Street Closures, Special Events Permits, and One-Stop Special
Events Permit Office.  The Director of the Bureau of Street Services has the
authority to temporarily close any local street, including collector streets,
or major or secondary highway, or lane(s) thereof, after receiving a
recommendation from the Department of Transportation, when such closing is
necessary for the safety and protection of persons using that portion of the
street or highway during the temporary closing.  The Director of the Bureau
of Street Services also shall have the authority, after receiving a
recommendation from the Department of Transportation to authorize that a
roadway remain open without any lane closures in instances where the Special
Event, as defined in Section 41.20.1(a)(9) of this code, only requires curb
side parking.  No person shall conduct, manage or Sponsor any Special Event
without a written permit that has been approved as required by this Section
or any other applicable Section of this Code.  No person shall participate
in any Special Event with the knowledge that its Sponsor has not been issued
the required permit.  No person shall knowingly conduct, join or participate
in any Special Event conducted under permit in violation of any of the terms
of the permit, or knowingly join or participate in any permitted Special
Event without the consent, and over the objection, of the permittee.  No
person shall in any manner interfere with the progress or orderly conduct of
a permitted Special Event.  The Sponsor of any event that involves the use
of, or has a direct or indirect impact on, public property or facilities, or
that can reasonably be foreseen to have such an impact on or to require a
higher level of public safety services or other municipal services, including
advance planning services, than that normally provided by the City, shall be
responsible for obtaining all required permits and for payment of the costs,
including all fees, charges and salary costs, for all such services,
including lost parking meter revenues.  The Board of Public Works shall
establish a One-Stop Special Events Permit Office in the Bureau of Street
Services for the issuance of all Special Event Permits, other than permits
for Parades and Assemblies as defined in Section 103.111(b) of this Code,
which are to be issued by the Los Angeles Police Department, and other than
as provided for entertainment industry-related Special Events such as motion
picture filming, television filming and photography in Section 41.20.1,
Subsection (d).  Except as expressly provided herein, the Bureau of Street
Services, through the One-Stop Special Events Permit Office, shall be the
permitting office for all Special Events, including Athletic Events.  The
Police Department shall remain the permitting entity for Parades and
Assemblies, as defined in Section 103.111(b) of this Code.  The provisions
of this Section and of Section 41.20.1 shall not eliminate or affect the
requirements for, or related to, permits, fees or charges for events on
property controlled by the departments of Recreation and Parks, Library,
Water and Power, Harbor and Airports, nor shall they negate any requirements
to obtain permits, as applicable, from the City's regulatory departments
(e.g., Fire Department, Police Department, Building and Safety Department),
and to pay the applicable fees and charges.  The Director of the Bureau of
Street Services has the authority to revoke a Special Events Permit for any
violation of the terms and conditions of the permit.



 



   (b)   Application for Permit.  (Amended by Ord. No. 184,020, Eff.
1/27/16.)  Applications for Special Events, including those requiring street
closures of local streets, including collector streets, and of major and
secondary highways, or lane(s) thereof, as well as those that only request
reserved curb side Special Event parking when lane closures have been
determined to be unnecessary, shall be filed with the One-Stop Special Events
Permit Office in the Bureau of Street Services at least 45 days prior to the
expected first day of the Special Event.  The Sponsor shall pay a
non-refundable administrative late fee of $312 for all applications submitted
21 days or less before a Special Event.  The Bureau of Street Services shall
establish notification procedures to immediately notify the respective
Council office, as well as:  all affected City departments and offices and
affected non-City government agencies, if known; the Los Angeles Police
Department; the appropriate Neighborhood Council, if any; and the Business
Improvement District, if any, in which a proposed event is to be held,
whenever a Special Event Permit application is submitted to the Bureau for
processing.  The respective Council office and all affected City departments
and offices shall be provided a copy of the permit application for their
review and comment.  The Council office and all affected offices and
departments shall be responsible for notifying the Bureau of Street Services
in writing or electronically of any objection to, or condition required for,
the issuance of the permit for the Special Event.  Upon issuance of a
Special Event Permit, each of those City departments and offices shall be
provided a copy of the permit issued and shall be responsible for enforcement
of the terms and conditions of the permit that are within the subject matter
jurisdiction of that department or office.  Special Event Permits shall be
issued for the dates of the event and necessary days for setup and
take-down.  Special Event Permits issued for recurring Certified Farmers'
Markets sponsored by a non-profit organization or a local government agency
(state, county or district) may be issued for all events on the days
specified for up to one year.  Special Event Permits issued for Special
Events that are recurring, may be issued for all events on the days specified
for up to one year.  In order to be eligible to obtain a permit for a
recurring Special Event, as defined in Los Angeles Municipal Code Section
41.20.1(a)(9), the recurring Special Event must occur a minimum of 12 times
during which the one year permit is valid.  Applications for Special Event
Permits may be filed directly at the One-Stop Special Events Permit Office or
may be completed and submitted on-line through the City's web-based Special
Events Permit Application.  Any changes made by the applicant to the initial
Special Event Permit Application or Site Plans for the event will require the
Sponsor to make a payment of a $100, non-refundable, processing fee. 
Decisions to deny or to condition the issuance of a Special Event Permit
which are contested by the Sponsor shall be reviewed as set forth in Section
41.20.1.  No fees under this subsection will be required with respect to the
filming of Television Pilots as set forth in Section 41.20.1.



 



   If the Special Event is designed to be held by, on behalf of, or for
any organization other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall
file a communication, in writing, from the organization authorizing the
applicant to apply for the permit on its behalf.  The Bureau of Street
Services shall take reasonable steps to verify that information.



 



   (c)   Permit Fees and Charges.  Issuance of all Special Event
Permits shall be subject to payment in advance or at the time the permit is
issued of all applicable fees and charges, including salary costs, for
required City services, equipment and materials.  A "Parking Meter Usage
Fee" will be charged when reserved curb side Special Event parking is
requested at locations with parking meters.  Except as expressly provided by
ordinance, no subsidy or waiver of any fees or charges shall be provided by
the City for City permits, equipment, materials or services for any Special
Event.  If the actual fees and charges for the event are less than the
estimated amount paid by the permittee, the permittee shall be refunded the
difference.  If the actual fees and charges for the event are greater than
the estimated amount paid by the permittee, the permittee shall be billed for
and required to pay the difference within fifteen (15) calendar days of
receipt of an invoice therefor.



 



   (d)   Conditions for Granting Permits.



 



   1.   The Board of Public Works shall approve the forms to be used by
the Bureau of Street Services for Special Event Permit applications and
Special Event Permits and shall adopt written procedures and requirements to
be applied by the Bureau of Street Services for the granting of permits,
including but not limited to the requirement of adequate barricades, lights
and warning devices to be provided and maintained during a street closure,
other traffic control measures, such as Special Event parking restriction
signs, cleaning deposit, charges for sanitary units and barricades, insurance
and other fees and charges.  In addition to any other information determined
to be required by the Board, the Special Event Permit application shall
require, as applicable, the following information:



 



   A.   The date(s) and time(s) of the event;



 



   B.   The assembly area, or event area, as applicable;



 



   C.   The start time(s);



 



   D.   The minimum and maximum speed(s) for the event, if applicable;



 



   E.   The exact route of the event, if applicable;



 



   F.   The portions of streets to be traversed by the event, if
applicable;



 



   G.   The disbanding area and disbanding time, or ending time, as
applicable;



 



   H.   The number of persons required to officiate or monitor the
event;



 



   I.   The number and types of vehicles, if any;



 



   J.   The material and maximum size and dimensions of all signs,
banners, placards, or carrying device(s) therefore;



 



   K.   The number, type, dimensions and locations of booths, stages,
structures of any kind, and equipment to be used for the event, if
applicable; and



 



   L.   The type(s) and capacity of sound amplification equipment and
systems to be used for the event, if applicable.



 



   2.   The following criteria shall be included among all the relevant
criteria used in reviewing applications for Special Event Permits:



 



   A.   Location and surrounding area at which the event is to take
place;



 



   B.   Dates, number of hours, time(s) of day, the number of days an
event will be held and the impact on the public and the community;



 



   C.   Inclusion of information on the Special Events Permit
Application as to whether the event provides a social, economic, cultural, or
educational benefit to the community;



 



   D.   Consideration of traffic in the area where, and on the days and
times when, the proposed event will be held, and the impact of the event on
residential and business access in the area;



 



   E.   Anticipated impacts of the event on activity and noise levels
in residential and business areas;



 



   F.   Availability of personnel and other resources needed from other
applicable City Departments, including but not limited to: the Police,
Building and Safety, Fire, Transportation, General Services, and Cultural
Affairs departments and from the Bureaus of Street Services, Street Lighting
and Sanitation;



 



   G.   Number of participants expected to attend the event;



 



   H.   The number and nature of other events occurring at
approximately the same time, and in the same area of the proposed event;



 



   I.   Conditions existing within the surrounding area that when
occurring in conjunction with the event or with a proposed street closure,
may create a severe hardship or an unnecessary inconvenience to the community
and the general public;



 



   J.   The history and experience of the applicant and organizer in
conducting special events of the type proposed;



 



   K.   The results of petitions, required or otherwise, circulated in
or received from residential and commercial areas impacted by the event;



 



   L.   Construction activities in the proposed area of the event;



 



   M.   Comments and other input from Neighborhood Councils and BIDs in
the areas impacted by the event; and



 



   N.   The estimated number of parking spaces where parking will need
to be prohibited during the event, or where reserved parking for the Special
Event will need to be designated, and how many of those spaces have parking
meters.



 



   3.   The Sponsor of a Special Event, including a Certified Farmers'
Market, shall obtain a Business Tax Registration Certificate, as required by
applicable law, and shall ensure that a City Business Tax Registration
Certificate is obtained by every event participant, as required by applicable
law.



 



   4.   Any unresolved issues regarding the issuance of a permit shall
be resolved as set forth in Subsection (e) of this Section.



 



   5.   Upon the request of the Bureau of Street Services with respect
to an application for a Special Event Permit, the Department of
Transportation and each of the other affected City departments shall provide
to the Bureau of Street Services a statement of the estimated fees and
charges, including salary costs, for providing traffic control services
(traffic control costs) or other services, as applicable, and a parking meter
usage fee to cover the cost of lost parking meter revenue, for the event. 
For recurring Special Events, the Department of Transportation is authorized
to determine whether temporary or permanent signs will be used.  The Bureau
of Street Services shall provide to the permittee a statement of the
estimated fees and charges, including salary costs, for all City services,
equipment and materials required for the event, including traffic control
costs.  Traffic control services consist of the preparation of the traffic
management plan, as well as clearing the event route or area of unauthorized
vehicles, posting any parking restrictions necessary for the event, diverting
traffic around the event, and directing pedestrian and vehicular traffic
along the route of the event.  The traffic control costs shall be computed
by determining the number of City personnel that will be required for traffic
control beyond that which would otherwise be required at that time,
multiplied by the number of hours for which those additional services are to
be rendered at the rate of the City's full cost of providing personnel at the
respective classifications on an hourly basis.  The parking meter usage fee
is equal to the total potential parking meter revenue for on-street parking
meter spaces, on a block operated by parking meters that are taken out of
operation to accommodate Special Event parking, calculated at the applicable
hourly meter rate and during metered hours for which the Special Event
regulations apply.  At the conclusion of the event, the actual costs for
traffic control and for other services, as applicable, for the event shall be
determined by the Department of Transportation and each of the other affected
City departments.  If the actual costs for services for the event are less
than the estimated costs paid, the permittee shall be refunded the
difference.  If the actual costs for traffic control for the event are
greater than the estimated costs paid, the permittee shall be billed for and
required to pay the additional costs within fifteen (15) calendar days of
receipt of an invoice therefor.  Unless otherwise required to insure public
safety as determined by the Department of Transportation, the permittee for a
block party Special Event shall be allowed to pick up, place and return
traffic control devices required for the event from the Bureau of Street
Services at the nearest convenient location.  The permittee for a block
party shall make a refundable deposit of an amount determined by the Bureau
of Street Services to be reasonable to insure return, and payment for any
damage to, all traffic control devices provided for the event.  Those
filming a Television Pilot shall not be required to pay the Department of
Transportation for the costs of posting and removing street signs.



 



   6.   Following approval of a Special Event Permit, but ten (10) days
prior to the start date for the event, the permittee shall provide a cleanup
deposit in an amount established in a cleanup fee schedule adopted by the
Board of Public Works.  The cleanup deposit shall be returned to the
permittee after the event if the area used for the event has been cleaned and
restored to the same condition as existed prior to the event, as determined
by a representative of the Bureau of Street Services.  If the property used
for the event has not been cleaned and restored to the condition that existed
prior to the event, the permittee shall be billed for and required to pay the
actual cost of the cleanup and restoration, and the cleanup deposit shall be
applied toward the total amount of those costs.  If there is a balance
remaining in the cleanup deposit after the cleanup and restoration costs are
paid, the balance shall be refunded to, or credited to the account of the
permittee.  If the permittee disputes the amount of the charges for cleanup
and restoration, the applicant may appeal to the Board of Public Works within
five (5) days after receipt of the bill.  The decision of the Board on such
appeals shall be final.



 



   (e)   Special Events Permit Application Evaluation.  Each
application for a Special Events Permit shall be reviewed and evaluated by
the One-Stop Special Event Permit Office, which shall make a determination to
grant the permit, to impose conditions on the permit that may be granted, or
to modify or deny the permit in accordance with this Section and Section
41.20.1.  Upon a determination that a Special Event Permit will be approved
and general liability insurance requirements have been met, a permit shall be
issued by the Bureau of Street Services within one (1) business day.  Upon
the issuance of a permit for a Special Event, the Bureau of Street Services
shall cause the posting of the date(s), time and location of the Special
Event on the internet accessible Citywide GIS map to avoid conflicting events
at the same location.  No insurance form or certificate other than those
approved by the City Risk Manager shall be acceptable, and the evaluation of
an application may be delayed until such documentation is submitted. 
General liability insurance is required and shall not be waived.  If a
determination is made to condition or to deny the permit and that
determination is contested by the applicant, the One-Stop Special Event
Permit Office shall consult, as necessary and appropriate, with the affected
Council District office, representatives of the Department of Public Works,
Bureaus of Street Services, Street Lighting, Engineering, and Sanitation, the
Police and Fire Departments, and the Departments of Building and Safety,
Transportation, General Services, and Recreation and Parks as well as the
Mayor's Office, the Chief Legislative Analyst, and the City Administrative
Officer, in an effort to resolve the matter.  The One-Stop Special Event
Permit Office shall conclude its consultation with those other departments
and offices and make a determination regarding the application within ten
(10) City business days.  If after such consultation the matter is not
resolved, the Director of the Bureau of Street Services, within two business
days, shall report on the matter in writing to the Board of Public Works and
recommend a course of action.  Copies of the Director's report shall be
provided to the applicant and to the respective Council office.  The Board
shall agendize the matter of the Special Event Permit Application at the
earliest possible time, but not more than five (5) regular meetings following
the referral by the Director, consistent with applicable notice requirements
for public meetings.  After considering the matter and all information that
the Board of Public Works deems necessary at that meeting, or at some
subsequent meeting as determined by the Board, the Board of Public Works
shall take action to grant the permit, grant the permit with conditions,
modify, or deny the permit.  Any such action by the Board shall be subject
to the provisions of Charter Section 245.



 



   (f)   Posting of Signs.  Pursuant to Section 21103 of the Vehicle
Code, the Board shall provide for the posting of signs at all entrances to
the street or streets being temporarily closed, giving notice of the local
traffic laws.  Such signs shall be reviewed and approved by the Department
of Transportation prior to posting.



 



   (g)   Indemnification Agreement.  The Board is authorized and
directed to require that each applicant for a street closure permit execute
an agreement, in a form acceptable to the City Attorney, to indemnify and
hold the City, its officers, agents and employees, harmless from any loss,
cost, expense, injury, damage or liability of any kind caused by or resulting
from the issuance of any permit for a street closure to that applicant.



 



   (h)   Required Insurance. The Board is authorized and directed to
require that each applicant for a street closure permit maintain insurance
and provide evidence of such insurance in a form acceptable to the City's
Risk Manager, protecting and indemnifying the City, its officers, agents and
employees as insureds against any loss, cost, expense, injury, damage or
liability incurred by reason of any personal injury or property damage
sustained by any person caused by or resulting from the issuance of the
permit to that applicant.



 



   (i)   Insurance Program.  The Board is authorized and directed to
procure and maintain, when such is available, a blanket policy of insurance
in an amount as said Board shall determine, protecting and indemnifying the
applicant and the City, its officers, agents, and employees as insureds
against a loss, cost, expense, injury, damage, or liability incurred by
reason of any personal injury or property damage sustained by a person or
resulting from the issuance of a permit under the section when said applicant
desires such coverage.  The premium shall be borne by the applicant
(permittee) and shall not be waived.



 



   (j)   Electronic Benefit Transfer Card Acceptance at Certified
Farmers' Markets.  The Board is authorized and directed to require that each
applicant for a Special Events Permit to hold a Certified Farmers' Market on
City property or on City streets, provide proof of Electronic Benefit
Transfer (EBT) Cards acceptance by providing a Food and Nutrition Service
(FNS) Number issued by the United States Department of Agriculture.  The
institution of this provision shall begin with the next renewal period of
each Certified Farmers' Market application.  (Added by Ord. No. 184,719,
Eff. 3/6/17.)



 



 



SEC. 41.20.1.  SPECIAL EVENT APPLICATION PROCESS AND DEFINITIONS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 180,881, Eff. 10/26/09.)



 



   (a)   Definitions.  For purposes of Sections 41.20 and 41.20.1 the
following terms and phrases shall have the meanings set forth herein:



 



   1.   Athletic Event means an event, not involving as a primary
component, Expressive Activity, as that term is defined in Section
103.111(b), in which a group of people collectively engage in a sport or form
of physical exercise including, but not limited to, jogging, bicycling,
walking, roller skating, or running, upon any public street, sidewalk, alley
or other public place, that does not comply with normal and usual traffic
regulations and controls.



 



   2.   Certified Farmers' Market shall have the same meaning as set
forth in California Code of Regulations (Title III, Division 3, Chapter 1,
Subchapter 4, Article 6.5, Direct Marketing) Section 1392.2(a) as a location
approved by the County Agricultural Commissioner of that county where
agricultural products are sold by producers or certified producers directly
to consumers.  A Certified Farmers' Market may be operated by one or more
certified producers, a non-profit organization, or a local government agency
(state, county or district).  For purposes of this Code, a Certified
Farmers' Market shall mean the direct marketing, as that term is used in the
California Code of Regulations, of agricultural products by certified
producers to consumers in accordance with the applicable provisions of the
California Code of Regulations.



 



   3.   Charitable Event means an event, or a series of related events,
involving a subject matter of interest to a significant portion of the
residents of the City of Los Angeles all net proceeds of which, if any, will
directly benefit a charitable organization that maintains its charitable
status pursuant to Internal Revenue Code Section 501(c)(3).



 



   4.   City of Los Angeles Special Event means an event, or series of
related events, involving a subject matter of interest to a significant
portion of the residents of the City of Los Angeles, that is also an event
officially sponsored and produced or managed using City employees and
resources by the City of Los Angeles, its operating departments, boards,
commissions or bureaus, and which is a Special Event and a Non-Commercial
Event.



 



   5.   Citywide Special Event means a Special Event involving a
subject matter determined to be of interest to a significant number of City
residents from three or more Council Districts, as evidenced from the active
support or past attendance at the event of residents from those Council
Districts.  The Chief Legislative Analyst shall prepare a list of Citywide
Special Events anticipated to occur during the ensuing fiscal year and submit
it to the City Council for approval.  The City Council may add or remove
events from the list in its discretion.  Events included on the list of
Citywide Special Events do not thereby automatically qualify for issuance of
a permit for the event.  In each instance, a Special Event Permit
Application, if applicable, must be filed with the Bureau of Street Services.



 



   6.   Commercial Event means an event that does not qualify as a
"non-commercial" event as defined herein.



 



   7.   Community Event means an event, or a series of related events
involving a subject matter of interest to a significant portion of the
residents of the City of Los Angeles that promotes civic pride in the City or
in a local community within the City, that is not a commercial event, all net
proceeds of which, if any, will directly benefit either a charitable or
non-profit organization.  Community Events include Block Parties that meet
these requirements.



 



   8.   Non-Commercial Event means a Special Event that is open to the
public, or in the case of block parties to all residents living within the
block party area, free of charge and without restriction, sponsored and
produced by a charitable or non-profit organization, and from which no
individual or other entity receives any proceeds, or benefits from those
proceeds either directly or indirectly, other than as compensation for goods,
equipment or services provided.  At such events, advertising, sponsorship,
and food and merchandise sales shall be permitted, provided all net proceeds,
if any, from such activities are used for the benefit of a non-profit or
charitable organization or of the charitable or non-profit sponsoring
organization.  The Sponsor(s) of Non-commercial events must comply with all
legal requirements, including all applicable requirements regarding
registering with the Police Commission for charitable solicitations. 
Non-Commercial Events include, but are not limited to, Charitable Events,
Community Events and City of Los Angeles Special Events.



 



   9.   Special Event means an event, or series of related events, of
cultural, civic, economic, social, recreational or educational nature,
including Athletic Events, sponsored by an individual or individuals, a
non-profit organization or community group, charitable organization or
for-profit organization or group, that is:  (1) held wholly or partially on
property owned or maintained by the City; or (2) held on any other property,
and that requires for its successful execution, the partial or complete
closure of streets or sidewalks or the provision and coordination of
municipal services to a degree over and above the level that the City
normally provides.  Special Events also include any other organized activity
that involves the use of, or has a direct or indirect impact on, public
property or facilities or that can reasonably be foreseen to have such an
impact on, or to require a higher level of, public safety services or other
municipal services, including advance planning services, than that normally
provided by the City. The Police Department shall remain the permitting
entity for Parades and Assemblies, as defined in Section 103.111(b) of this
Code.  The City may contract for permit application coordination services
for City-issued permits for entertainment industry-related Special Events,
such as motion picture filming, television filming and photography.  The
City's contractor, and not the One-Stop Special Events Permit Office, will
coordinate the processing of permit applications for permits the City issues
for those types of events.  In addition, the receipt, evaluation, processing
and approval of City permits for those types of events shall be the
responsibility of the City Council or of the City department or office to
which the Council, by order, resolution or ordinance has delegated, or in the
future may delegate, such authority, as provided in Sections 22.350, and
following, of the Los Angeles Administrative Code and in Section 12.22 A.13.
of this Code.



 



   10.   Sponsor means the person(s) or entity that assumes or is
charged with the responsibility for, as well as the act of, producing or
managing a Special Event.  The Sponsor may or may not be financially
responsible for the event and may or may not be responsible for conducting or
carrying out the activities of the event.  For purposes of this definition,
a person or entity that provides only financial or in-kind support for a
Special Event and has no responsibility for producing or managing the event
is not a Sponsor.  The terms "sponsors", "sponsored" and similar variations
shall be given a meaning consistent with this definition.



 



   11.   A Television Pilot is a stand-alone episode of a television
series that is used to sell the show to a distributor of episodic
television.  At the time of its creation, the pilot is meant to be the
testing ground to gauge if a series will be ordered, and is therefore a test
episode of an intended television series.  (Added by Ord. No. 182,757, Eff.
11/30/13.)



 



   (b)   Special Events Coordination.



 



   1.   All Parade and Assembly Permit Applications shall be submitted
to the Los Angeles Police Department in accordance with applicable provisions
of this Code.  The Police Department shall coordinate evaluation and review
of those applications, including any requests for Special Event Fee
Subsidies, with the One-Stop Special Events Permit Office as necessary.



 



   2.   The City may contract for permit application coordination
services for City-issued permits for entertainment industry-related Special
Events, such as motion picture filming, television filming and photography. 
The City's contractor, and not the One-Stop Special Events Permit Office,
will coordinate the processing of permit applications for permits the City
issues for those types of events.  In addition, the receipt, evaluation,
processing and approval of City permits for those types of events shall be
the responsibility of the City Council or of the City department or office to
which the Council, by order, resolution or ordinance has delegated, or in the
future may delegate, such authority, as provided in Sections 22.350, and
following, of the Los Angeles Administrative Code and in Section 12.22 A.13.
of this Code.



 



   (c)   Events at Major Sports and Entertainment Venues.  The types
and levels of municipal services provided for events at major venues,
including but not limited to, the Staples Center, Coliseum, Dodger Stadium,
Sports Arena, Hollywood Bowl, Greek Theatre and Kodak Theatre, and for major
awards shows and other similar events, shall be determined and provided
solely within the discretion of the City.  Applicable fees and charges,
including salary costs, for all such services, equipment and materials shall
not be subsidized or waived unless otherwise provided by contract.  If the
City determines, in its own discretion, that traffic control measures or
other services are not needed at particular venues or for specific events,
the City will not provide those services.  Should a venue or event Sponsor
wish to ensure that certain types and levels of services will be provided for
purposes of an event, the venue or event Sponsor will be required to
negotiate a contract with the City to clearly define the types and levels of
services requested, and to provide for payment for all services beyond the
normal level of services which the City in its sole discretion would have
provided to meet public safety and welfare needs.  The Sponsor of any event
that involves the use of, or has a direct or indirect impact on, public
property or facilities, or that can reasonably be foreseen to have such an
impact on or to require a higher level of public safety services or other
municipal services, including advance planning services, than that normally
provided by the City, shall be responsible for obtaining all required permits
and for payment of the costs, including all fees, charges and salary costs,
for all such services.



 



   (d)   Tracking Special Event Expenditures.  The Bureau of Street
Services shall track all funds expended for Special Events by all City
departments by Special Event.  All City departments that incur costs and
expenses for Special Events shall report on those costs and expenses on a
quarterly basis to the Bureau of Street Services. The Bureau of Street
Services shall report to the Board of Public Works and the City Council
regarding all such expenditures within forty-give (45) days after the end of
each calendar quarter.



 



   (e)   City Equipment Cost Recovery.  In all instances, Special
Event permittees shall pay the City for the repair or replacement costs, as
determined by the Bureau of Street Services, for traffic control devices or
equipment provided for an event and not returned within 24 hours of the
event, or returned in a damaged condition, excluding reasonable wear and
tear.  All payments for damaged or lost equipment shall be made in a manner
as determined by the Bureau of Street Services, which may, and in the case of
block parties shall, include a requirement for a refundable deposit.



 



 



SEC. 41.21.  CUTTING INTO GASOLINE LINES PROHIBITED.



   (Added by Ord. No. 152,435,* Eff. 5/30/79.)



 



   (a)   No person shall, for the purpose of obtaining gasoline, join
any line, consisting of one or more motor vehicles which are assembled at or
approaching a gasoline service station or other gasoline dispensing facility
for the apparent purpose of obtaining gasoline, except by joining said line
behind the last person or vehicle in the line. This prohibition shall not
apply to any person who is obtaining gasoline in a hand-carried container of
two (2) gallons or less and who approaches the gasoline service station or
other gasoline dispensing facility other than in or on a motor vehicle.



 



   A violation of this subsection is a misdemeanor and upon conviction is
punishable by a fine not exceeding One Thousand Dollars ($1,000)  or by
imprisonment in the county jail for not to exceed six (6) months or by both
such fine and imprisonment.  (Amended by Ord. No. 160,063, Eff. 7/28/85.)



 



   (b)   For purposes of this section, the term “gasoline” shall
include any petroleum product used as a fuel for internal combustion engines.



 



   (c)   Every person who owns, operates, manages, leases or rents a
gasoline station or other facility offering for sale, selling or otherwise
dispensing gasoline to the public shall continue to have available on such
premises, upon having received from the City an initial supply,  witness
forms,  prepared by the Chief of Police and subject to the approval of the
City Attorney, obtainable from the City, to be completed by witnesses to a
violation of this section.



 



   A violation of this subsection is an infraction punishable by a fine
not exceeding twenty dollars ($20).



 



   * This ordinance will be effective only as long as the Governor of the
State of California’s proclamation of May 8, 1979, declaring a state of
emergency in Los Angeles County because of the gasoline shortage remains in
effect.



 



 



SEC. 41.22.  LOITERING – RIVER BED.



 



   No person shall camp, lodge, make or kindle a fire, wash any clothes or
bedding, bathe, sleep, lay any bed or any blanket, quilt, straw or branches
for the purpose of resting or sleeping thereon, or remain or loiter in the
official bed of the Los Angeles River.



 



 



SEC. 41.23.  TRESPASS ON HOUSING AUTHORITY PROPERTY.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 174,977, Eff. 12/29/02.)



 



   1.   Definitions.  For purposes of this Section:



 



   (a)   Housing Authority means the Housing Authority of the City of
Los Angeles, its authorized agent or representative.



 



   (b)   Occupant means a person who is listed on a lease with the
Housing Authority for the particular Development in which the Housing
Authority or a peace officer makes contact with a Nonresident.



 



   (c)   Nonresident means a person who is not an Occupant. 
Nonresident does not include individuals who are on the Development to carry
out constitutionally protected activities or governmental duties or are
participating in programs authorized by the Housing Authority; or are on
public property owned by the City of Los Angeles within the Development.



 



   (d)   Development means any Housing Authority property used
primarily for residential purposes.



 



   (e)   Authorization means permission for a Nonresident to enter a
Development which is given either by (i) an Occupant of that Development who
is 18 years or older, identifies the authorizing party and unit number and is
specific for each entry into the Development in which the Occupant is listed
on the lease; or (ii) the Housing Authority in written form.  Authorization
from an occupant allows a Nonresident to be present only in the following
areas:  The Occupant’s unit, common areas in the building containing the
unit, access to parking for the unit, and a direct route to and from the
building where the tenant’s unit is located.  The preceding area
limitation shall not apply if, in addition to the Authorization, the
Nonresident is accompanied by an Occupant.  Authorization must be given
prior to the time the Housing Authority or peace officer makes contact with a
Nonresident.



 



   2.   Entry into Developments.  A Nonresident shall not enter or be
present upon any Development without Authorization, where signs forbidding
such entry are displayed as provided in Subsection 3. in a conspicuous and
readable manner in the Development.  (Amended by Ord. No. 175,716, Eff.
1/31/04.)



 



   3.   Posting of No Trespass Signs.  At least two signs shall be
conspicuously painted or posted on the outside of every Housing Authority
building that is subject to this regulation.  The letters and numbers on
said signs shall be in black lettering at least six inches high on a white
background stating:





NO TRESPASSING
LAMC SEC. 41.23





(Amended by Ord. No. 175,716, Eff. 1/31/04.)



 



   4.   Entry requiring Authorization from the Housing Authority.



 



   (a)   Entry into a vacant or unrented unit.  Without obtaining
prior Authorization from the Housing Authority, no person shall enter or be
present in a vacant or unrented housing unit located in the Development; and
no person shall provide access by any means, including but not limited to,
keys, keycards or combinations to a vacant or unrented housing unit located
in the Development.  Prior Authorization from the Housing Authority may be
obtained from the Development manager or designee.



 



   (b)   Entry by a Nonresident convicted of a crime committed in any
Development.  Even with Authorization from an Occupant, a Nonresident shall
not enter or be present in the Development without the Authorization of the
Housing Authority when, within the past five years, that Nonresident has been
convicted of any violation of the law involving narcotics, prostitution,
vandalism, weapons, disturbance of the peace, loitering, threat to commit a
violent act, or a violent act, in any Development.



 



   5.   (None.)



 



   6.   Violations.



 



   (a)   A violation of any of the provisions of this section shall be
a misdemeanor or an infraction.



 



   (b)   If any part or provision of this section, or the application
thereof to any person or circumstance, is held invalid, the remainder of the
section, including the application of that part or provision to other persons
or circumstances, shall not be effected thereby and shall continue in full
force and effect.  To this end, the provisions of this section are severable.



 



 



SEC. 41.24.  TRESPASS ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.



   (Added by Ord. No. 168,500, Eff. 2/4/93.)



 



   (a)   No person shall enter or be present upon any private property
or portion of private property not open to the general public without the
consent of the owner, the owner’s agent, or the person in lawful
possession, where signs forbidding entry are displayed as provided in
Subsection (f).



 



   (b)   No person shall enter upon any private property or portion of
private property, not open to the general public, who within the immediately
preceding six months was advised as follows: to leave and not return, and
that if he or she returns to the property within six months of the advisement
he or she will be subject to arrest.  This advisement must be made by the
owner, the owner’s agent, the person in lawful possession or a peace
officer at the request of the owner, owner’s agent or person in lawful
possession. The advisement shall be documented in writing by the individual
making it and shall include the name of the person advised, the date,
approximate time, address and type of property involved.  Such documentation
shall be retained for a minimum period of one year.  This subsection is not
violated if a person so advised enters the property within the designated six
month period, if he or she has been expressly authorized to do so by the
owner, the owner’s agent or a person in lawful possession.



 



   (c)   Entry requiring Express Consent of Owner.



 



   1.   No person shall enter or be present upon private property not
open to the general public without the express consent of the owner or the
owner’s agent when that person:



 



   A.   has been convicted of any violation of the law involving
narcotics, prostitution, vandalism, weapons, disturbance of the peace,
loitering, threat to commit a violent act, or a violent act, on that same
private property not open to the general public, whether or not such property
is posted in accordance with Subsection (f); and



 



   B.   has, subsequent to the conviction been told to leave and not
return to that same property, by the owner, the owner’s agent or a peace
officer at the request of the owner or the owner’s agent.



 



   2.   The request to leave must be made within six months of the date
of the conviction and shall be documented in writing by the individual making
the request. The documentation of the request shall include the name of the
person being requested to leave, the date, the approximate time, the address
and the type of property involved.



 



   3.   This subsection applies even if the person has the consent of a
person in lawful possession but does not apply to persons who have a right of
lawful possession to the subject property.  An individual who has the
consent of the person in lawful possession may not be refused entry by the
owner or the owner’s agent for a period exceeding twelve months, computed
from the date of the request.



 



   (d)   No person shall enter or be present upon any private property
or portion of private property open to the general public who within the
immediately preceding 24 hours was advised to leave and not return, and that
if he or she returns to the property within 24 hours of the advisement, he or
she will be subject to arrest.  This advisement must be made by the owner,
the owner’s agent, the person in lawful possession or a peace officer at
the request of the owner, owner’s agent or the person in lawful possession.
A request to leave  may be made only if it is rationally related to the
services performed or the facilities provided.



 



   (e)   The term “private property” shall mean any real property,
including but not limited to, buildings,  structures, yards, open spaces,
walkways, courtyards, driveways, carports, parking areas and vacant lots,
except land which is used exclusively for agricultural purposes, owned by any
person or legal entity other than property owned or lawfully possessed by any
governmental entity or agency.



 



   (f)   For purposes of Subsection (a), one sign must be printed or
posted in a conspicuous manner at every walkway and driveway entering any
enclosed property or portion thereof and at a minimum of every fifty feet
along the boundary of any unenclosed lot. This requirement is met if at least
one sign is  conspicuously printed or posted on the outside of every
structure on such property, so as to be readable from each walkway and
driveway entering such property. The sign shall state as follows:



 




THIS PROPERTY CLOSED TO THE PUBLIC
No Entry Without Permission
LAMC SEC. 41.24




 



 



   The language “THIS PROPERTY CLOSED TO THE PUBLIC No Entry Without
Permission” on said sign shall be at least two inches high.



 



   (g)   When a peace officer’s assistance in dealing with a trespass
is requested, the owner, owner’s agent, or the person in lawful possession
shall make a separate request to the peace officer on each occasion. However,
a single request for a peace officer’s assistance may be made to cover a
limited period of time not to exceed twelve months when such request is made
in writing and provides the specific dates of the authorization period.



 



   (h)   This section shall not apply in any of the following instances:



 



   (1)   when its application results in, or is coupled with, any act
prohibited by the Unruh Civil Rights Act, or any other provision of law
relating to prohibited discrimination against any person;



 



   (2)   when its application results in, or is coupled with, an act
prohibited by Section 365 of the California Penal Code, or any other
provision of law relating to the duties of innkeepers;



 



   (3)   when public officers or employees are acting within the course
and scope of their employment or in the performance of their official duties;
or



 



   (4)   when persons are engaging in activities protected by the
United States Constitution or the California Constitution or when persons are
engaging in acts which are expressly required or permitted by any provision
of law.



 



   (i)   Violation of any of the provisions of this section shall be a
misdemeanor or an infraction.



 



   (j)   If any part or provision of this section, or the application
thereof to any person or circumstance, is held invalid, the remainder of the
section, including the application of that part or provision to other persons
or circumstances, shall not be affected thereby and shall continue in full
force and effect.  To this end, the provisions of this section are severable.



 



 



SEC. 41.27.  INTOXICATION.



 



   (a)   (None)



 



   (b)   (None)



 



   (c)   No person shall drink any malt, spirituous or vinous liquor
containing more than one-half of one per cent of alcohol by volume, upon any
street, sidewalk or parkway, park, playground, Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum,
or in any railroad depot or bus station, or in any public place, or in any
place open to the patronage of the public, which premises are not licensed
for the consumption of such liquor on the premises.



 



   (d)   No person who has in his or her possession any bottle, can or
other receptacle containing any alcoholic beverage which has been opened, or
a seal broken, or the contents of which have been partially removed, shall
enter, be, or remain on the posted premises of, including the posted parking
lot immediately adjacent to, any retail package off-sale alcoholic beverage
licensee licensed pursuant to Division 9 (commencing with Section 23000) of
the Business and Professions Code of the State of California, or on any
public sidewalk immediately adjacent to the licensed and posted premises. Any
person violating any provision of this subsection shall be guilty of an
infraction. (Added by Ord. No. 158,498, Eff. 12/31/83.)



 



   (e)   All retail package off-sale alcoholic beverage licensees
licensed pursuant to Division 9 (commencing with Section 23000) of the
Business and Professions Code of the State of California shall install and
maintain signs on the licensed premises, clearly visible to the patrons of
the licensee and to persons in or on any parking lot or public sidewalk
immediately adjacent to the licensed premises, which notify all such persons
that the provisions of Subsection (d) of this section are applicable. Any
licensee violating any provision of this subsection shall be guilty of an
infraction. (Added by Ord. No. 158,498, Eff. 12/31/83.)



 



   (f)   As used in Subsections (d) and (g) of this section, “posted
premises” means those premises which are subject to licensure under any
retail package off-sale alcoholic beverage license, the parking lot
immediately adjacent to the licensed premises, and any public sidewalk
immediately adjacent to the licensed premises on which clearly visible
notices have placed pursuant to the provisions of Subsection (e) of this
section.  (Added by Ord. No. 158,498, Eff. 12/31/83.)



 



   (g)   The provisions of Subsections (d) and (e) of this section
shall not apply to a private residential parking lot which is immediately
adjacent to the posted premises.  (Added by Ord. No. 158,498, Eff. 12/31/83.)



 



   (h)   No person shall have in his or her possession, with intent to
consume any part of the contents thereof in any public place not licensed for
the consumption thereof, any bottle, can or other receptacle containing any
alcoholic beverage which has been opened, or a seal broken, or the contents
of which have been partially removed, upon any street, sidewalk or parkway,
park, playground, Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum, or any railroad depot or bus
station, or in any public place, or in any place open to the patronage of the
public, which premises are not licensed for the consumption of such alcoholic
beverage on the premises. Any person violating any provision of this
subsection shall be guilty of an infraction.  (Amended by Ord. No. 160,458,
Eff. 11/28/85.)*



 



   * Note: Section 41.27(h) was declared unconstitutional in People v.
Duran, 43 Cal. App. 4th Supp.1.



 



 



SEC. 41.29.  HAND ORGANS ON STREETS.



 



   No person shall operate or play any hand organ or hurdy-gurdy in, upon
or along any street or sidewalk.



 



 



SEC. 41.30.  SPITE FENCES.



 



   No person shall maliciously construct, erect, build, plant, cultivate
or maintain any fence or wall or any hedge or similar growth unnecessarily
exceeding six (6) feet in height, for the purpose of annoying the owners or
occupants of adjoining property.



 



   Malice must be shown to sustain a conviction of constructing or
maintaining a spite fence.



   People v. Hughes, CR A 167.



 



   (See also as to fences: Comprehensive Zoning Plan.)



 



 



SEC. 41.31.  TREES – INJURY TO.



 



   (a)   No person shall dump, pour or spill any oil, salt or salt
water or other deleterious matter upon any tree space in any street, or keep
or maintain upon any sidewalk within ten (10) feet of any such tree or tree
space on any street, any receptacle from which oil or salt water leaks or
drips, or pour oil or salt water onto any parking or concrete gutter so as to
injure any tree on any street.



 



   (b)   Trees – Piling Material On:  No person shall pile building
material or other material, about any tree, plant or shrub in a street in any
manner that will in any way injure such tree, plant or shrub.



 



 



SEC. 41.32.  THEATRES – SOUND AMPLIFIERS.



 



   No person shall use, operate or employ any sound amplifying system in
connection with or in conjunction with or as a part of the production,
staging, exhibition or projection of any show in such a manner that any
voice, tone, sound wave, musical tone or vibration emitted therefrom or
transmitted thereover or through the same is carried in tones or sounds
audible to the human ear to a point distant more than fifty (50) feet from
the property line where such show is being conducted. Provided, that where
any such show is being conducted within any enclosure or structure, the
exterior of such structure or enclosure shall be construed to mean the
property line of the premises where the same is being conducted, for the
purpose of this section.



 



 



SEC. 41.33.  LANDLORDS – DISTURBING TENANTS.



 



   No person, except a duly authorized officer pursuant to the authority
of legal process, shall interfere with the peaceful enjoyment, use,
possession or occupancy of any premises by the lawful lessee or tenant of
such premises either by threat, fraud, intimidation, coercion, duress, or by
the maintenance or toleration of a public nuisance, or by cutting off heat,
light, water, fuel or free communication by anyone by mail, telephone or
otherwise, or by restricting trade or tradesmen from or to any such tenant.



 



   People v. Beverly Oil Company, CR A 2339.



   Acts committed by co-defendant, who was president and agent of the
corporation and was found not guilty; hence conviction against defendant
principal reversed.



 



 



SEC. 41.34.  PESTICIDES – NOTICE TO TENANTS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 161,580, Eff. 9/12/86.)



 



   (a)   If pesticides are to be used on apartments, duplexes or other
multi-family dwellings, then notice shall be provided to the tenant of the
premises for which the work is to be done. The clear written notice shall
contain the following statements and information using words with common and
everyday meaning:



 



   1.   The pest to be controlled.



 



   2.   The pesticide or pesticides proposed to be used, and the active
ingredient or ingredients.



 



   3.   City law requires that you be given the following information:



 




CAUTION – PESTICIDES ARE TOXIC CHEMICALS.




 




      Structural Pest Control Operators are licensed and regulated by
the Structural Pest Control Board, and apply pesticides which are registered
and approved for use by California Department of Food and Agriculture and the
United States Environmental Protection Agency. Registration is granted when
the state finds that based on existing scientific evidence there are no
appreciable risks if proper use conditions are followed or that the risks are
outweighed by the benefits. The degree of risk depends upon the degree of
exposure, so exposure should be minimized.




 




      If within 24 hours following application you experience symptoms
similar to common seasonal illness comparable to the flu, contact your
physician or poison control center (telephone number) and your pest control
operator immediately. (This statement shall be modified to include any other
symptoms of overexposure which are not typical of influenza.)




 




      For further information, contact any of the following: Your Pest
Control Operator (telephone number); for Health Questions—the County Health
Department (telephone number); for Application Information—the County
Agricultural Commissioner (telephone number) and for Regulatory
Information—the Structural Pest Control Board (telephone number and
address).




 



   (b)   In the case of fumigation applications, the notice, as
prescribed by Subsection (a), shall be provided at least 48 hours prior to
application unless fumigation follows inspection by less than 48 hours.



 



   In the case of general pest or termite applications, the notice, as
prescribed by Subsection (a), shall be provided no later than prior to
application. In either case, the notice shall be given to the tenant in at
least one of the following ways:



 



   1.   First-class mail.



 



   2.   Posting in a conspicuous place on the real property.



 



   3.   Personal delivery.



 



   The notice shall only be required to be provided at the time of the
initial treatment if a contract for periodic service has been executed. If
the pesticide to be used is changed, another notice shall be required to be
provided in the manner previously set forth herein.



 



   (c)   The owner of the premises shall give or cause to be given the
notice as prescribed in Subsection (a) of this section.



 



   If a structural pest control operator, field representative or employee
provides a notice pursuant to California Business and Professions Code
Section 8538, then the owner is not required to provide the notice to the
tenant as prescribed by Subsection (a) of this section.



 



   (d)   Any person who violates any provision of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor.



 



 



SEC. 41.38.  USE OF CERTAIN SIGNS ON VEHICLES PROHIBITED.



 



   No person shall drive any vehicle of any kind on any public street
which has placed thereon or affixed thereto any sign, plate or other fixed
objects which contains the words “Police,” “Police Department,”
“L.A. Police Department” or “Department of Police,” or letters
“L.A.P.D. Press,” or any other words or letters or group of words or
letters of like or similar character or nature, unless such vehicle is owned
and operated by a regularly organized department of police of a body politic,
or such vehicle which though privately owned, is used by a duly authorized
officer or employee of a department of police of a body politic in the
performance of his duties.



 



 



SEC. 41.39.  STOWAWAYS – ENTRY A MISDEMEANOR.



 



   1.   Any person who enters the City of Los Angeles as a stowaway on
any ship or who lands in this city after having arrived herein as a stowaway,
whether his presence aboard was discovered prior to such entry or not; and



 



   2.   Any person who embarks as a stowaway on any ship destined for a
port outside the City of Los Angeles; and



 



   3.   Any person who harbors, conceals or who knowingly assists any
stowaway in avoiding detection upon any ship within this city; or who aids
any person in embarking or attempting to embark as a stowaway; and



 



   4.   Any person who enters this city as a stowaway on any aircraft
or who boards any such craft in this city as a stowaway, is guilty of a
misdemeanor and is punishable as provided in Section 11.00 of this Code.



 



 



SEC. 41.40.  NOISE DUE TO CONSTRUCTION, EXCAVATION WORK – WHEN PROHIBITED.



 



   (a)   No person shall, between the hours of 9:00 P.M. and 7:00 A.M.
of the following day, perform any construction or repair work of any kind
upon, or any excavating for, any building or structure, where any of the
foregoing entails the use of any power driven drill, riveting machine
excavator or any other machine, tool, device or equipment which makes loud
noises to the disturbance of persons occupying sleeping quarters in any
dwelling hotel or apartment or other place of residence. In addition, the
operation, repair or servicing of construction equipment and the job-site
delivering of construction materials in such areas shall be prohibited during
the hours herein specified. Any person who knowingly and wilfully violates
the foregoing provision shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor punishable as
elsewhere provided in this Code. (Amended by Ord. No. 158,587, Eff. 1/29/84.)



 



   (b)   The provisions of Subsection (a) shall not apply to any person
who performs the construction, repair or excavation work involved pursuant to
the express written permission of the Board of Police Commissioners through
its Executive Director.  The Executive Director, on behalf of the Board, may
grant this permission, upon application in writing, where the work proposed
to be done is in the public interest, or where hardship or injustice, or
unreasonable delay would result from its interruption during the hours
mentioned above, or where the building or structure involved is devoted or
intended to be devoted to a use immediately related to public defense.  The
provisions of this section shall not in any event apply to construction,
repair or excavation work done within any district zoned for manufacturing or
industrial uses under the provisions of Chapter I of this Code, nor to
emergency work necessitated by any flood, fire or other catastrophe. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 178,160, Eff. 2/12/07.)



 



   (c)   (Amended by Ord. No. 166,170, Eff. 9/29/90.)  No person,
other than an individual homeowner engaged in the repair or construction of
his single-family dwelling shall perform any construction or repair work of
any kind upon, or any earth grading for, any building or structure located on
land developed with residential buildings under the provisions of Chapter I
of this Code, or perform such work within 500 feet of land so occupied,
before 8:00 a.m. or after 6:00 p.m. on any Saturday or national holiday nor
at any time on any Sunday. In addition, the operation, repair or servicing of
construction equipment and the job-site delivering of construction materials
in such areas shall be prohibited on Saturdays and on Sundays during the
hours herein specified. The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to
persons engaged in the emergency repair of:



 



   1.   Any building or structure.



 



   2.   Earth supporting or endangering any building or structure.



 



   3.   Any public utility.



 



   4.   Any public way or adjacent earth.



 



   (d)   The provisions of Subsection (c) shall not apply to
construction work done on the Metro Rail Project and the tunnel-station
portions of the Los Angeles-Long Beach Rail Project between Sixth to Twelfth
Streets, provided however that this construction work shall not include the
utilization of soldier pile drilling, vibrating hammer driving, blasting, or
any construction activities that will exceed the ambient noise levels as
provided in the action of the Police Commission, pursuant to Subsection (b)
above, granting a variance for this work.  In addition, this construction
work will be subject to all the conditions of the conditional variance
granted by the Board through its Executive Director.  This section shall
have no force or effect upon completion of the construction work described
here.  (Amended by Ord. No. 178,160, Eff. 2/12/07.)



 



   (e)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to construction
work done by CALTRANS to repair the collapsed sections of the Santa Monica
Freeway within a one mile radius of the intersection of Interstate 10 and
Fairfax Avenue.  This section shall have no force and effect upon completion
of the construction work herein described.  (Added by Ord. No. 169,669, Eff.
5/13/94.)



 



   (f)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to construction
work done by the County of Los Angeles in connection with Phases 2 and 3 of
Unit 5 of the Hollyhills Storm Drain Project, including the installation of
temporary bridges and any other structures necessary to regulate or direct
traffic because of the storm drain construction.  Unit 5 construction is
within the area bounded by Beverly Boulevard, 3rd Street, La Cienega
Boulevard and San Vicente Boulevard.  Phases 2 and 3 involve several
underground concrete structures to be built in and around the intersection of
La Cienega and San Vicente Boulevards.  This section shall have no force and
effect upon completion of the construction work herein specified.  (Added by
Ord. No. 172, 091, Eff. 7/3/98.)



 



   (g)   The provisions of Subsection (c) shall not apply to
construction work undertaken from March 31, 2000 to August 20, 2000 that must
be done prior to the Democratic National Convention, provided however that
such construction work will be subject to all conditions established by the
Los Angeles Police Department Noise Enforcement Team, in  1)  the downtown
area bounded by Union Street on the west, Washington on the south, San Pedro
on the east, and 101 Freeway on the North, including but not limited to work
undertaken in compliance with construction permits issued by the Bureau of
Engineering, water line improvements/installation, sewer construction, fiber
optic installation, and street paving or is associated with the Convention
such as installation and removal of security barriers and fencing and  2) 
the Windward Plaza area of Venice Beach, between 18th Place and Horizon
Avenue from the western border of Ocean Front Walk to the beach, for the
Venice Beach Ocean Front Walk Refurbishment Project under the direction of
the City of Los Angeles Department of Recreation and Parks Department.  This
section shall have no force and effect after August 20, 2000.  (Added by
Ord. No. 173,154, Eff. 4/30/00.)



 



   (h)   The provisions of Subsection (c) shall not apply to the
construction work done by the City of Los Angeles in connection with the
portion of the Stone-Hollywood Trunk Line from Stone Canyon Reservoir service
area to the Hollywood Reservoir service area as part of the Hollywood Water
Quality Improvement Project undertaken on Pico Boulevard, including all
structures and operations necessary for construction and/or to regulate or
direct traffic due to construction activities.  This section shall have no
force and effect upon completion of the construction work herein specified. 
(Added by Ord. No. 173,746, Eff. 1/23/01.)



 



   [(i)   None.]



 



   (j)   As determined by the Executive Director of the Board, the
provisions of Subsection (c) shall not apply to major public works
construction by the City of Los Angeles and its proprietary Departments,
including all structures and operations necessary to regulate or direct
traffic due to construction activities.  The Board, through its Executive
Director, pursuant to Subsection (b) will grant a variance for this work and
construction activities will be subject to all conditions of the variance as
granted.  Concurrent with the request for a variance, the City Department
that will conduct the construction work will notify each affected Council
district office and established Neighborhood Council of projects where
proposed Sunday and/or Holiday work will occur.  (Amended by Ord. No.
178,160, Eff. 2/12/07.)



 



   (k)   Noise Variance Application Fee.  Any application to the Board
for a noise variance under Subsection (b) shall be accompanied by payment of
an application fee of $360.00. (Amended by Ord. No. 185,605, Eff. 7/8/18.)



 



 



SEC. 41.41.  EVADING PAYMENT OF ADMISSION FEE.



 



   No person, with intent gratuitously to avail himself of the
entertainment or recreation furnished or the privileges conferred therein,
shall enter any theatre, stadium, athletic club, ball park, golf course, golf
club, tennis club, beach club, bathing beach or other place of amusement,
entertainment or recreation for admission to which an admission fee or
membership fee is charged, without first paying such admission fee or
membership fee; provided, however, that any person who is a bona fide guest
of a member of any club may enter such club in accordance with the rules
thereof; and provided further that any person may enter any place which is
within the purview of this section with the consent of the owner or manager
thereof; and provided further that this section shall not be deemed to apply
to the entry into any such place by a law enforcement officer acting within
the scope and course of his official duties.



 



 



SEC. 41.42.  MUSIC REPRODUCING DEVICES – HOURS OF OPERATION.



 



   No owner, manager or other person having charge of any place of public
resort where any phonographic, loud speaker or other electrically or
mechanically operated device for the reproduction or emission of music is
played for hire, shall allow the playing or operation of such device therein,
between the hours of 2:00 o’clock A.M. and 5:00 o’clock A.M. of any
day.  (Added by Ord. No. 111,348, Eff. 7/4/58.)



 



 



SEC. 41.43.  SELLING GOODS NEAR PRIVATE PARKS.



   (Repealed by Ord. No. 185,900, Eff. 12/6/18.)



 



 



SEC. 41.43.1.  DOOR TO DOOR SELLING OR SOLICITING.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 181,642, Eff. 5/31/11.)



 



   No person shall solicit, sell or offer to sell, demonstrate or take
orders for the sale of goods, wares or any form of merchandise, by entering
upon the premises of another for such purpose except in compliance with the
provisions of this Section.



 



   (a)   "Solicitation".  As used in this Section, shall mean to sell
or offer to sell, demonstrate or take orders for the sale of goods, wares or
any form of merchandise or services.



 



   (b)   No person shall enter upon the premises of another for the
purpose of solicitation between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. of the
following day.



 



   (c)   Any person over the age of 16 who engages in door-to-door
solicitations shall carry a form of photo identification and must present
such photo identification upon request of any person being solicited, any
peace officer or other person charged with enforcement of the laws pertaining
to such solicitations.  The photo identification must include the person's
date of birth and be issued by a governmental agency or educational
institution.  Acceptable identification includes a state driver's license,
state identification card, school identification card, or any government
issued identification card.



 



   (d)    Any person engaged in door-to-door solicitations shall
present the original or a copy of the Business Tax Registration Certificate 
required under Los Angeles Municipal Code Section 21.06 upon request of any
person being solicited, any peace officer, or other person charged with
enforcement of the laws pertaining to such solicitations.



 



   (e)   The provisions of this Section shall not apply to vendors or
solicitors who have previously been invited or requested to appear at such
premises by the owner or lawful occupant thereof, or to persons making
charitable solicitations in accordance with Article 4 of Chapter IV of the
Los Angeles Municipal Code.



 



 



SEC. 41.44.  MINIATURE GOLF COURSES AND DRIVING FAIRWAYS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 111,348, Eff. 7/4/58.)



 



   (a)   Hours of Play.  No person owning, operating, managing or
conducting a miniature golf course or driving fairway shall allow any person
to play or practice upon such miniature golf course between the hours of 2:00
o’clock A.M. and 6:00 o’clock A.M. of any day.



 



   (b)   Hours for Use of Mechanical Devices. No person owning,
operating, managing or conducting a miniature golf course or driving fairway
shall allow any work or labor with instruments or mechanical devices which
are propelled by electric, steam or automotive power, to be performed upon
such miniature golf course or driving fairway between the hours of 12:30
o’clock A.M. and 7:00 o’clock A.M. of any day.



 



   (c)   Noise Signs.  Persons owning, operating, managing or
conducting a miniature golf course shall place in a conspicuous place on said
golf course, at least four signs upon which are written in legible English,
in letters at least two inches in height, words or phrases requesting patrons
to refrain from loud talking and unnecessary noise at all times while on the
golf course. Such signs shall be placed where they can easily be seen by the
patrons.



 



   (d)   Illumination.



 



   1.   The playing field of a miniature golf course or driving fairway
shall not be illuminated between the hours of 2:00 o’clock A.M. and 6:00
o’clock A.M. of any day, except with such illumination as may be necessary
only for the proper care and cleaning of such places.



 



   2.   The illumination of the playing field of any miniature golf
course or driving fairway shall be such that no direct rays from the
reflector or source of illumination shall fall upon any portion of any
building used for living or sleeping quarters not under the ownership or
control of the owner or operator of such golf course.



 



   3.   Where electric lamps are used there shall be installed a
reflector of a type that shall not permit any portion of the lamp to project
beyond the plane of the opening of the reflector, if the golf course or
driving fairway is located less than 400 feet from any structure used for
dwelling purposes.



 



   4.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to festoons or
similar lights, streamers or assemblies used for advertising or attracting
attention to such golf courses, provided that the lamps used therein do not
exceed 25 watts each and are extinguished between the hours of 11:00
o’clock P.M. and 7:00 o’clock A.M. of the following day.



 



   (e)   Sound Devices. No person shall use, operate or employ any
sound amplifying system, radio or sound producing machine, device or
instrument or permit any music of any kind to be played in or upon any
miniature golf course or driving fairway between the hours of 10:00 o’clock
P.M. of any day and 7:00 o’clock A.M. of the succeeding day.



 



 



SEC. 41.45.  UNAUTHORIZED REMOVAL, USE OR POSSESSION OF SHOPPING CARTS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 129,180, Eff. 1/30/65.)



 



   (a)   Removal.  No person shall remove any shopping cart, shopping
basket or other similar device from the premises or parking area of any
business establishment if such shopping cart, basket or device has
permanently affixed to it a sign identifying it as belonging to such business
establishment and a notification to the effect that such cart, basket or
device is not to be removed from the owner’s premises.



 



   The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to removal by the
owner or his agent or an employee of the business, nor to removal by a
customer of the business possessing the written consent of its owner manager
or authorized agent.



 



   (b)   Abandonment. No person shall abandon or leave any such
shopping cart, shopping basket or other similar device which has been removed
from the owner’s premises upon any public street, alley, sidewalk, parkway
or other public place, nor upon any private property except that of the owner
of such cart, basket or device.



 



   (c)   Possession. No person shall have in his possession any
shopping cart, shopping basket or other similar device which has been removed
from the owners premises and which has permanently affixed to it a sign
identifying it as belonging to a business establishment and notification to
the effect that such cart, basket or device is not to be removed from the
owners premises.



 



   The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to possession by the
owner or his agent or an employee of the business nor to possession by a
customer of the business possessing the written consent of its owner, manager
or authorized agent.



 



   (d)   Use.  No person shall use any shopping cart, shopping basket
or other similar device for any purpose other than that originally intended
by such business without the owner’s written consent.



 



   (e)   Alteration.  No person shall alter, convert or tamper with
any shopping cart, shopping basket or other similar device or remove any part
thereof without the owner’s written consent.



 



   (f)   Notice.  Each business establishment owning such shopping
cart, shopping basket or other similar device shall place at each of its
exits a sign notifying its customers and the general public of the aforesaid
prohibitions. Such notification shall be placed in such a position and be of
sufficient size and legibility so as to insure that persons leaving such
places of business shall be fully informed of the prohibitory provisions
contained in this section.



 



   (g)   Fine.  Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Code to
the contrary the violation of any of the provisions or the failure to comply
with any of the mandatory requirements of this section shall be punishable
only by a fine of not more than $50.00.



 



 



SEC. 41.46.  SIDEWALKS – CLEANING OF.



   (Added by Ord. No. 127,508, Eff. 6/29/64.)



 



   No person shall fail, refuse or neglect to keep the sidewalk in front
of his house, place of business or premises in a clean and wholesome
condition.



 



 



SEC. 41.47.  WATER CLOSETS – USE OF.



   (Added by Ord. No. 127,508, Eff. 6/29/64.)



 



   No person owning, controlling or having charge of any bathroom or water
closet room shall permit any person to use such rooms for any purpose other
than toilet purposes.



 



 



SEC. 41.47.1.  RESTROOM FACILITIES.



   (Added by Ord. No. 163,811, Eff. 8/19/88.)



 



   A.   For public accommodations or facilities: If restroom facilities
are made available for the public, clients, or employees, no person owning,
controlling, or having charge of such accommodation or facility shall
prohibit or prevent the use of such restroom facilities by a person with a
physical handicap, regardless of whether that person is a customer, client,
employee, or paid entrant to the accommodation or facility. Employee
restrooms need not be made available if there are other restroom facilities
available on the premises unless employee restroom facilities have been
constructed or altered to accommodate the physically handicapped and such
facilities are not available elsewhere on the premises.



 



   B.   The following definitions are applicable to this section:



 



   1.   A person with a physical handicap includes:



 



   a)   an individual who has an impairment, either permanent or
temporary in nature, as follows:



 



   1)   Impairments that affect ambulation due to cerebral palsy,
poliomyelitis, spinal cord injury, amputation, arthritis, cardiac and
pulmonary conditions and other conditions or diseases which reduce mobility,
including aging;



 



   2)   Impairments that require the use of crutches, canes,
wheelchairs, braces, walkers, or other ambulatory assistive devices.



 



   3)   Total blindness or impairments affecting sight to the extent
that the individual functioning in public areas may be insecure or exposed to
danger; and



 



   4)   Deafness or hearing impairments that may expose an individual
to danger or insecurity.



 



   b)   an individual who requests the use of the restroom facilities
and states that because of a physical infirmity he or she requires immediate
access to restroom facilities.



 



   2.   Public accommodation or facility means a building, structure,
facility, complex, or improved area that is used by the general public and
shall include those accommodations and facilities listed in Sections 19955
and 19955.5 of the Health and Safety Code.



 



   C.   Nothing in this section requires the making of structural
alterations, repairs, remodels, modifications, or additions not otherwise
required by applicable local, state and/or federal law.



 



 



SEC. 41.47.2.  URINATING OR DEFECATING IN PUBLIC.



   (Added by Ord. No. 175,626, Eff. 12/16/03.)



 



   No person shall urinate or defecate in or upon any public street,
sidewalk, alley, plaza, beach, park, public building or other publicly
maintained facility or place, or in any place open to the public or exposed
to public view, except when using a urinal, toilet or commode located in a
restroom, or when using a portable or temporary toilet or other facility
designed for the sanitary disposal of human waste and which is enclosed from
public view.



 



 



SEC. 41.48.  RESTAURANTS – MINIMUM LIGHT INTENSITY.



   (Added by Ord. No. 127,508, Eff. 6/29/64.)



 



   All restaurants, eating establishments, rooms or portions of rooms in
which food, beverages or drinks are sold, offered for sale or given away, and
every portion of such places available for use of the patrons thereof, shall
be well-lighted on a plane of 36 inches from the floor, with a minimum light
intensity of not less than one-foot-candle.



 



 



SEC. 41.49.  HOTEL REGISTERS AND ROOM RENTALS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 179,533, Eff. 3/8/08.)



 



   1.   Definitions.  For purposes of this section:



 



   Guest means a person who exercises occupancy or is entitled to
occupancy in a hotel by reason of concession, permit, right of access,
license or other agreement.



 



   Hotel means any public or private space or structure, including but not
limited to, any inn, hostelry, tourist home, motel, lodging house or motel
rooming house offering space for sleeping or overnight accommodations in
exchange for rent and for a period of less than 30 days.  Hotel includes the
parking lot and other common areas of the hotel.  Hotel does not include
living accommodations provided at any governmental or nonprofit institution
in connection with the functions of that institution.



 



   Housing Voucher means a voucher, certificate or coupon for lodging
issued individually or jointly by any of the following, or an agency or
authority of any one or more of the following:  (1) the federal government;
(2) the State of California or another state; (3) a county; (4) a
municipality; or (5) a non-profit entity that issues vouchers, certificates
or coupons for lodging to homeless individuals or families.



 



   Identification document means a document that contains the name, date
of birth, description and picture of a person, issued by the federal
government, the State of California, another state, a county or municipal
government subdivision or one of their agencies, including but not limited
to:  a motor vehicle operator’s license, an identification card, or an
identification card issued to a member of the Armed Forces.  Identification
document also includes a passport issued by a foreign government or a
consular identification card, issued by a foreign government to any of its
citizens and nationals, which has been approved by the City of Los Angeles as
valid identification.



 



   Occupancy means the use or possession, or the right to the use or
possession, of any room in any hotel.



 



   Operator means the person who is either the proprietor of the hotel or
any other person who has the right to rent rooms within the hotel, whether in
the capacity of owner, manager, lessee, mortgagee in possession, licensee,
employee or in any other capacity.



 



   Record means written documentation of information about a guest.  A
record may be maintained electronically, in a book or on cards.



 



   Rent means the consideration charged, whether or not received, for the
occupancy of a room in a hotel valued in money, whether to be received in
money, goods, labor or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits and
property and services of any kind or nature.



 



   Reservation means a request to hold a room for a potential guest that
includes the following information and is documented in writing:  (i) The
potential guest’s name and contact information; and (ii) the date and time
when the contact was made.



 



   Room means any portion of a hotel, which is designed or intended for
occupancy by a person for temporary lodging or sleeping purposes.



 



   Walk-in guest means any guest who did not make a reservation for a room
prior to the time that he or she seeks to check in at the hotel.



 



   2.   Hotel Record Information.



 



   (a)   Every operator of a hotel shall keep a record in which the
following information shall be entered legibly, either in electronic, ink or
typewritten form prior to the room being furnished or rented to a guest:



 



   (1)   As provided by the guest in response to an inquiry or by other
means:



 



   (i)   The name and address of each guest and the total number of
guests;



 



   (ii)   The make, type and license number of the guest’s vehicle if
the vehicle will be parked on hotel premises that are under the control of
the Operator or hotel management;



 



   (iii)   Identification information as required by Subsection 4 (a)
and (b) of this section.



 



   (2)   The day, month, year and time of arrival of each guest;



 



   (3)   The number or other identifying symbol of location of the room
rented or assigned each guest;



 



   (4)   The date that each guest is scheduled to depart;



 



   (5)   The rate charged and amount collected for rental of the room
assigned to each guest;



 



   (6)   The method of payment for the room; and



 



   (7)   The full name of the person checking in the guest.



 



   (b)   For a guest checking in via an electronic registration kiosk
at the hotel, instead of the information required by Subsection 2.(a), the
hotel shall maintain the name, reservation information and credit card
information provided by the guest, as well as the identifying symbol of the
kiosk where the guest checked in and the room number assigned to the guest.



 



   3.   Maintenance of Hotel Record.  Every operator of a hotel shall
comply with the following requirements for maintaining the hotel record:



 



   (a)   The record shall be kept on the hotel premises in the guest
reception or guest check-in area or in an office adjacent to that area.  The
record shall be maintained at that location on the hotel premises for a
period of 90 days from and after the date of the last entry in the record. 
An officer of the Los Angeles Police Department may request an operator
consent to inspect the record as part of the Department's public safety
responsibilities.  (Amended by Ord. No. 184,711, Eff. 3/10/17.)



 



   (b)   No person shall alter, deface or erase the record so as to
make the information recorded in it illegible or unintelligible, or hinder,
obstruct or interfere with any inspection of the record under this section.



 



   (c)   Any record maintained in the form of a book shall be
permanently bound, each page shall be sequentially numbered and the book
shall be the minimum size of eight by ten inches.  No page shall be removed
from the book.  Any record maintained in the form of cards shall be on cards
that are the minimum size of two and one-half inches by four inches and
numbered consecutively and used in sequence.  Any card numbered within the
sequence of utilized cards shall be preserved as part of the record even if
it is not used for a room rental.  The numbers shall be printed or otherwise
indelibly affixed to the cards.  If maintained electronically, the record
shall be printable.



 



   (d)   Nothing in this section absolves the operator from maintaining
the record for longer than 90 days in order to comply with any other
provision of law, including the obligation to maintain and produce records
for the purpose of paying a transient occupancy tax.



 



   4.   Renting of Hotel Rooms.  The operator of a hotel shall not
rent a room except in compliance with the following conditions.



 



   (a)   A guest who pays all or part of the rent for a room in cash at
the time of checking in, and a walk- in guest, shall be required to present
an identification document or a housing voucher at the time of checking into
the hotel.



 



   (b)   A room shall not be rented hourly or for fewer than 12 hours
unless an identification document is obtained from the guest when he or she
checks into the hotel.



 



   (c)   The number and expiration date of the identification document
obtained under Subsections 4.(a) or (b) shall be recorded and maintained by
the operator in the record for at least 90 days or if a guest is paying with
a housing voucher obtained under Subsection 4.(a), a copy of the housing
voucher shall be maintained with the record for at least 90 days.



 



   5.   Training of employees.  The owner or proprietor of a hotel
business shall take all reasonable steps, including but not limited to,
providing training regarding this section to ensure that the person who
checks a person into the hotel complies with the provisions of this
section.  A person who has not been trained shall not be assigned to check
persons into the hotel.



 



   6.   Guest obligations.



 



   (a)   No person shall give any assumed, false or fictitious name, or
any other name other than his or her true name when checking into a hotel.



 



   (b)   No person shall present to any hotel identification that is
any way false, altered or counterfeit or belongs to another person.



 



   (c)   Subsection 6. shall not apply to law enforcement personnel
engaged in an investigation.



 



 



SEC. 41.50.  SMOKING PROHIBITED IN DESIGNATED AREAS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 183,819, Eff. 9/30/15.)



 



   A.   Definitions. As used in this section:



 



   1.   "Bar" shall mean a business that sells or offers for sale
alcoholic beverages pursuant to a license from the Department of Alcoholic
Beverage Control (ABC), limits entry to patrons 18 and older and where food
service, if any, is only incidental to the sale of alcoholic beverages. A bar
shall not include a business with an ABC license type 41 or type 47, both of
which are issued to restaurants and require substantial sales of meals for
consumption on the premises.



 



   2.   "Smoke" shall mean the gases, particles or vapors released into
the air as a result of combustion, electrical ignition or vaporization,
including from an electronic smoking device, when the purpose of the
combustion, electrical ignition or vaporization is human inhalation of the
gases, particles or vapors. Smoke does not mean the combustion of material
solely for olfactory purposes that does not contain any tobacco or nicotine
or the emissions from a product specifically approved by the United States
Food and Drug Administration for use in mitigating, treating or preventing
disease.



 



   3.   "Smoking" shall mean engaging in an act that generates smoke,
such as possessing a lighted pipe, a lighted hookah pipe, a lighted cigar, a
lighted cigarette, or an operating electronic smoking device.



 



   4.   "Electronic Smoking Device" shall mean an electronic or
battery-operated device that delivers vapors for inhalation. This term shall
include every variation and type of such devices whether they are
manufactured, distributed, marketed or sold as an electronic cigarette, an
electronic cigar, an electronic cigarillo, an electronic pipe, an electronic
hookah or any other product name or descriptor.



 



   5.   "Outdoor Dining Area" shall mean:



 



   a.   An outdoor area made available to the general public that is
dedicated, designed, established or regularly used as a place for the
consumption of food or drinks and all non-enclosed areas within 10 feet
thereof. An outdoor dining area shall not include an area that is contiguous
to one of the following:



 



   (i)   a bar; or



 



   (ii)   a restaurant, business or non-commercial building that is
completely closed to the general public for a private event.



 



   b.   An outdoor area comprised of a 40-foot radius of a business,
such as a food kiosk, food cart or mobile food truck, that regularly sells or
provides food or drinks but has no area dedicated by the business as a place
for the consumption of food or drinks that are regularly sold or provided by
that business.



 



   B.   Prohibitions.



 



   1.   Smoking, as defined in Section 41.50 A.3., shall be prohibited
in all places where the smoking of tobacco is prohibited by local, state or
federal law. The use of an electronic smoking device is permissible:



 



   a.   in a business establishment in which the exclusive purpose of
the business is the sale or use of electronic smoking devices, provided that
the business does not sell or allow the consumption of alcoholic beverages or
food on the premises and does not permit any person under the age of 18 years
of age to be present or enter the premises at any time, unless accompanied by
the person's parent or legal guardian; and



 



   b.   at a theatrical production site, if the use of an electronic
smoking device is an integral part of the story in the theatrical production.



 



   2.   Smoking, as defined in Section 41.50 A.3., shall also be
prohibited in the following places:



 



   a.   Any portion of a building owned or leased by the City of Los
Angeles;



 



   b.   City permitted farmer's markets as defined in Section 12.24
X.6.; and



 



   c.   Outdoor dining areas.



 



   (i)   A violation of this section shall also be found when any
person authorized to manage or control an outdoor dining area knowingly
permits smoking in violation of this section.



 



   C.   No-Smoking Signs.



 



   1.   Any business or person having the authority to manage and
control any area designated as a no-smoking area shall post or cause to be
posted "No Smoking" signs in conspicuous locations within the designated
no-smoking areas. All such signs shall clearly and conspicuously recite the
phrase "No Smoking" and use the international no-smoking symbol. The signs
shall be posted not less than five feet, nor more than eight feet above floor
level and shall be of sufficient number and location to ensure that any
person in the designated no-smoking area shall see at least one of the signs.
For outdoor dining areas, the following provisions shall also be followed:



 



   a.   Any business with an outdoor dining area as defined in Section
41.50 A.5.a., shall post no-smoking signs of sufficient number to ensure that
the no-smoking prohibition is clearly visible and readable to patrons in the
outdoor dining area and to persons passing outdoors within 10 feet of the
outdoor dining area. The no-smoking signs shall state in size 14 font or
larger, "No smoking in this outdoor dining area or within 10 feet of this
outdoor dining area."



 



   b.   Any business with an outdoor dining area as defined in Section
41.50 A.5.b., such as a food kiosk, food cart or mobile food truck, shall
post a no-smoking sign located near the cashier that is clearly visible and
readable to its customers. The no-smoking sign shall state in size 14 font or
larger, "No smoking within 40 feet of this business."



 



   2.   It shall be unlawful to willfully mutilate or destroy any signs
required by this section.



 



 



41.50.1.  USE OF SMOKELESS TOBACCO PROHIBITED AT EVENT SITES FOR ORGANIZED
SPORTING EVENTS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 184,053, Eff. 3/9/16.)



 



   A.   Definitions.



 



   1.   "Event Site for Organized Sporting Events" shall mean the
entire physical area of a site, such as a stadium or arena, where organized
sporting events occur.  The entire physical area includes all open,
semi-open and enclosed spaces and structures including, but not limited to,
playing fields, dugouts, bullpens, training rooms, locker rooms, team bench
areas, spectator seating areas, pedestrian walkways, bathrooms, dining areas,
vendor areas, offices and recreational areas.  An event site for organized
sporting events does not include City parks defined in Section 63.44 A. of
this Code and regulated by Section 63.44 B. of this Code.



 



   2.   "Organized Sporting Events" shall mean games of or athletic
competitions related to baseball, softball, football, basketball, hockey,
track and field, field hockey, lacrosse or soccer; or any event involving a
game or other athletic competition organized by a league or association of
persons, including but not limited to, professional, amateur, adult
recreational, youth recreational and school sponsored leagues.



 



   3.   "Smokeless tobacco" shall mean any product containing cut,
ground, powdered or leaf tobacco that is intended to be placed in the oral or
nasal cavity, including but not limited to snuff, chewing tobacco, dipping
tobacco, dissolvable tobacco products and snus.



 



   B.   Prohibitions.



 



   1.   The use of smokeless tobacco shall be prohibited at all times
at event sites for organized sporting events.



 



   C.   Signage Requirement.



 



   1.   Persons or entities having the authority to manage and control
and those managing and controlling an event site for organized sporting
events shall post or cause to be posted and prominently displayed at every
entrance, a conspicuous sign clearly communicating that the use of smokeless
tobacco is prohibited. Such signs shall also be posted in all dugouts,
bullpens, training rooms and locker rooms.



 



   D.   Penalty.  Violation of any provision of this section is an
infraction.



 



 



SEC. 41.50.5.  SIGNAGE REGULATIONS FOR PLACES SUBJECT TO REGULATION PURSUANT
TO LABOR CODE SECTION 6404.5.



   (Repealed by Ord. No. 183,819, Eff. 9/30/15.)



 



 



SEC. 41.51.  SMOKING IN ELEVATORS PROHIBITED.



 



   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to light, ignite or
otherwise set fire to, or smoke, carry, throw or deposit any lighted cigar,
cigarette or other smoldering or smoke-producing substance within any public
or private elevator open to use by the general public. (Added by Ord. No.
146,792, Eff. 1/12/75.)



 



   (b)   Every person having the authority to manage and control
premises wherein elevator service is provided for use by the general public
shall post “NO SMOKING” signs in all such elevators. Such signs shall be
clearly visible and readable. Such signs shall cite Section 41.51 of the
Municipal Code and state that persons smoking in elevators are subject to a
fine. (Added by Ord. No. 146,792, Eff. 1/12/75.)



 



   (c)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code, violation of
this section is an infraction.  (Added by Ord. No. 153,590, Eff. 5/11/80.)



 



 



SEC. 41.52.  SMOKING IN BUSES.



 



   No person shall smoke or possess any burning cigarette, cigar or pipe
while on any motor bus or other vehicle operated for the purpose of
transporting persons for hire within the City of Los Angeles along a regular
route, and picking up or discharging such passengers in the city streets. 
(Added by Ord. No. 127,508, Eff. 6/29/64.)



 



   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Code, violation of this
section is an infraction.  (Added by Ord. No. 153,590, Eff. 5/11/80.)



 



 



SEC. 41.53.  PUBLIC BATH HOUSES.



   (Added by Ord. No. 127,508, Eff. 6/29/64.)



 



   No person shall occupy, use or bathe in any tub or tank in any public
bath house at the time such tub or tank is being occupied, used or bathed in
by any other person, or occupy, use or bathe in any such tub or tank if the
bathing water has been used by any other person.



 



   (b)   No person maintaining a public bath house shall cause or
permit more than one person to occupy, use or bathe in any tub at the same
time, or cause or permit any person to occupy, use or bathe in any such tub
until the same is emptied of the water used by another person.



 



   (c)   Separate sections or rooms with full partitions shall be
provided in public bath houses for the different sexes, or separate periods
of time shall be designated for bathing by the different sexes.



 



 



SEC. 41.54.  FISHING WITHIN ONE MILE OF PUBLIC SEWER OUTLET.



   (Added by Ord. No. 127,508, Eff. 6/29/64.)



 



   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to catch or take by means
of any line, hook, seine, net or by any other means or device, any fish in or
from any water within one mile from the outlet or point of discharge of any
public sewer.



 



   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer, or expose
for sale, in the City of Los Angeles any fish caught in or taken from any
water within a distance of one mile from the outlet or point of discharge of
any public sewer.



 



 



SEC. 41.55.  OIL – DISCHARGE IN OCEAN AND BEACHES.



   (Added by Ord. No. 127,508, Eff. 6/29/64.)



 



   No person shall discharge from any boat, vessel, ship or barge any
ballast water, bilge water or waste water containing, or contaminated with,
any crude petroleum, refined petroleum, engine oil, fuel oil or oily
by-products within the City, unless such ballast water, bilge water or waste
water is discharged into suitable and adequate settling basins, tanks or
other receptacles.



 



 



SEC. 41.56.  UNLAWFUL ACTIVITIES AT SPORTING EVENTS, THEATRICALS AND
EXHIBITIONS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 134,080, Eff. 3/14/67.)



 



   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person at any stadium,
auditorium, sports arena, playing field, theater, race track, skating rink,
fair, or other place where sporting events, theatricals, or exhibitions are
held:



 



   (1)   to leave the area or areas set aside for spectators and enter
upon the grounds, field, stage, floor, or any other area set apart for the
participants, performers, officials, attendants or service personnel, unless
authorized so to do by an usher or by an authorized representative of the
sponsor of the event or;



 



   (2)   to commit any act which delays the event or interferes with
the participants, performers, officials, attendants, service personnel or
spectators at any such event or;



 



   (3)   to intentionally throw, discharge, launch or spill any solid
or liquid substance or object, or otherwise intentionally cause such
substance or object to be thrown, discharged, launched, spilled or to become
airborne, unless such person is a duly authorized participant, performer,
official, attendant, service personnel or peace officer acting within the
course and scope of such person’s employment or duty. (Amended by Ord. No.
160,223, Eff. 8/2/85.)



 



   (b)   No person shall enter any place or area for which a ticket,
pass or admission charge is required;



 



   (1)   without having in his possession a valid ticket or pass and
presenting such ticket or pass to an usher or authorized representative of
the sponsor of the event when requested so to do or;



 



   (2)   without first having paid the price of admission, unless
otherwise duly authorized to enter such place or area or;



 



   (3)   by fraudulently evading or attempting to evade the payment of
the price of admission thereto.



 



   (c)   No person entering any place or area described in Subsection
(b), other than the holder of a valid ticket or pass designating the seat or
space reserved or assigned, shall occupy any reserved or assigned seat or
space. No person shall refuse to vacate a seat or space not assigned or
reserved by the ticket or pass he holds when requested to do so by the holder
of the ticket or pass for said seat or space, by an usher, or by an
authorized representative of the sponsor of the event.



 



 



SEC. 41.57.  LOUD AND RAUCOUS NOISE PROHIBITED.



   (Added by Ord. No. 140,731, Eff. 8/24/70.)



 



   (a)   It is unlawful for any person to cause, allow or permit the
emission or transmission of any loud or raucous noise from any sound making
or sound amplifying device in his possession or under his control.



 



   (1)   upon any private property, or



 



   (2)   upon any public street alley, sidewalk or thoroughfare, or



 



   (3)   in or upon any public park or other public place or property.



 



   (b)   The words “loud and raucous noise” as used herein shall
mean any sound or any recording thereof when amplified or increased by any
electrical, mechanical, or other device to such volume, intensity or carrying
power as to unreasonably interfere with the peace and quiet of other persons
within or upon any one or more of such places or areas, or as to unreasonably
annoy, disturb, impair or endanger the comfort, repose, health, or safety of
other persons within or upon any one or more of such places or areas.



 



   The word “unreasonably” as used herein shall include but not be
limited to, consideration of the hour, place, nature, and circumstances of
the emission or transmission of any such loud and raucous noise.



 



 



SEC. 41.58.  LOUD PARTY SECOND RESPONSE FEE.



   (Title and Section amended by Ord. No. 167,133, Eff. 9/1/91.)



 



   (a)   Definitions.



 



   Unless the context or subject matter otherwise requires, terms defined
herein shall have the following meaning when used in this section:



 



   1.   Board.  The Board of Police Commissioners.



 



   2.   Office of Finance.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,298, Eff.
6/30/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  The Office of Finance of the City of Los Angeles.



 



   3.   Department.  The Los Angeles Police Department.



 



   4.   First Response Notice.  A notice issued by a police officer
pursuant to this section advising a Responsible Person that a Loud Party is
taking place and that the disturbance must cease.



 



   5.   Loud Party.  Any party, gathering or event where a police
officer at the scene determines that there is a threat to the public peace,
health, safety or general welfare.



 



   6.   Responsible Person.  The person or persons who own, lease,
reside or is in charge of the premises where the Loud Party, takes place; or
the person or persons who organized the Loud Party.  If the Responsible
Person is a minor, then the parents or guardians will also be considered a
Responsible Party and be jointly and severally liable for the Second Response
Service Fee imposed by this section.



 



   7.   Second Response Notice.  A notice issued by a police officer
pursuant to this section assessing a Second Response Services Fee for a
second, or subsequent, response to a Loud Party.



 



   8.   Second Response Service Fee.  A fee imposed pursuant to this
section to recover Special Security Costs.



 



   9.   Special Security Assignment.  The assignment of Department
personnel and  equipment during a second, or subsequent, response to a Loud
Party after the issuing of a First Response Notice.



 



   10.   Special Security Costs.  Costs of services provided by the
Department associated with a Special Security Assignment which may include
personnel and equipment costs, damage to City property and injuries to City
personnel.



 



   (b)   Authorization to Assess a Second Response Service Fee.



 



   Whenever a Loud Party occurs, a police officer may issue a First
Response Notice to a Responsible Person that the disturbance must cease.  A
second, or subsequent, response by a police officer, upon the issuing of a
Second Response Notice, may result in the imposition of a Second Response
Service Fee to recover Special Security Costs.



 



   (c)   Duties of Board.



 



   l.   The Board shall determine a Second Response Service Fee
schedule, subject to approval by the City Council by order or resolution,
which shall be based upon the existing Special Security Costs incurred by the
Department.



 



   2.   The Board shall revise the Second Response Service Fee, subject
to approval by the City Council by order of resolution, whenever Special
Security Cost data developed by the Department requires adjustment in the
Second Response Service Fee.



 



   3.   No fee imposed pursuant to this section is authorized until the
Board has approved the Department’s implementation procedures, notices, and
appeals procedures



 



   (d)   Duties of the Department.



 



   l.   The Department shall develop written procedures to provide for
training and the uniform implementation of the Loud Party Second Response Fee
Ordinance.



 



   2.   The Department shall develop a First Response Notice, a Second
Response Notice, and any other form or document necessary to carry out the
purposes of this section.



 



   3.   The Department shall develop a post Second Response Notice
administrative appeal hearing procedure to determine whether the Second
Response Service Fee was assessed to the proper Responsible Person or was
properly issued.  The hearing shall be held in the Division where the Second
Response Notice was issued.



 



   (e)   Duties of the Office of Finance.  (Amended by Ord. No.
173,298, Eff. 6/30/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)



 



   1.   The Office of Finance shall bill the Second Response Service
Fee as reported by the Department.  The bill shall be due and payable to the
Office of Finance within fifteen days of the billing date.



 



   2.   If the Office of Finance determines for any billing that a
discrepancy exists between the service fee paid and the amount billed which
results in an underpayment or overpayment in an amount of three dollars or
less, the Office of Finance may accept and record the billing as paid in full
without other notification to the person billed.



 



   3.   If the Office of Finance determines that any amount of the
service fee billed hereunder cannot be collected or that efforts to collect
would be disproportionately costly in relation to the probable outcome of the
collection efforts, the Office of Finance may prepare a report setting forth
the findings and reasons therefor and request that the Board of Review
authorize the removal of any unpaid amount from the active accounts
receivable of the Department pursuant to Section 11.04 of this Code.  Upon
unanimous approval of the Board of Review, the Office of Finance may remove
from the active accounts receivable any service fee owing.  If the Board of
Review does not unanimously approve the findings, the matter shall be
returned to the Office of Finance.  Any removal, however, shall not preclude
the Office of Finance from collecting or attempting to collect any such sum
that later proves to be collectible as provided by Section 11.04.



 



   4.   At least monthly the Office of Finance shall report to the
Department the outstanding accounts receivable, collections and service
fee(s) written off.



 



 



SEC. 41.58.1.  LOUD OR UNRULY GATHERINGS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,451, Eff. 4/15/18.)



 



   (a)   Definitions.



 



   1.   "Citation" means an Administrative Citation issued pursuant to
Article 1.2 of Chapter 1 of this Code, unless otherwise specified.



 



   2.   "Enforcement Officer" shall have the same meaning as in Section
11.2.02 of this Code.



 



   3.   "Loud or Unruly Conduct", as used in this section, includes any
of the following conduct if in violation of any provision of this Code or
State law:



 



   A.   Loud noise;



 



   B.   Obstruction of a street or public right-of-way, including a
sidewalk;



 



   C.   Public intoxication or drinking in public;



 



   D.   The service of alcoholic beverages to minors;



 



   E.   Possession and/or consumption of alcohol by minors;



 



   F.   Assault, battery, fights, domestic violence or other
disturbances of the peace;



 



   G.   The sale or service of alcoholic beverages without a required
State license;



 



   H.   Vandalism or destruction of property;



 



   I.   Litter;



 



   J.   Urinating or defecating in public; or



 



   K.   Trespassing.



 



   4.   "Loud or Unruly Gathering" means a gathering of persons at any
Residence where Loud or Unruly Conduct occurs at the Residence or within 500
feet of the Residence, and which threatens or interferes with the public
health, safety or welfare, or the comfortable enjoyment of life and property.



 



   5.   "Minor" means any person under 21 years of age.



 



   6.   "Owner" means any person who owns the Residence where a Loud or
Unruly Gathering occurs.



 



   7.   "Person" means an individual or any firm, association,
organization, partnership, trust, business, corporation, company or entity.



 



   8.   "Residence" means any "residential building," as that term is
defined in Section 12.03 of this Code, and includes any garage, carport,
walkway, yard, patio, deck, or other structure or area on the lot on which
the residential building is located.



 



   9.   "Responsible Party" means:



 



   A.   Any person who rents, leases or otherwise is in charge of the
Residence where a Loud or Unruly Gathering occurs; or



 



   B.   Any person who organizes or sponsors a Loud or Unruly Gathering
at a Residence.



 



   (b)   Loud or Unruly Gatherings Prohibited.  Loud or Unruly
Gatherings are prohibited and shall constitute a public nuisance subjecting
the Owner and/or Responsible Party to fines and/or penalties under this
section.  The City may abate a Loud or Unruly Gathering by all available
means, including, but not limited to, an order of a peace officer requiring
persons at the Loud or Unruly Gathering to leave the Residence, the issuance
of a Citation, and/or the arrest of any person committing a criminal
violation under this section or any other applicable State or local law.



 



   (c)   Posting of Notice Regarding a Loud or Unruly Gathering.  An
Enforcement Officer responding to a Loud or Unruly Gathering shall post or
attach, on the front entrance of the Residence at which the Loud or Unruly
Gathering occurs, a notice meeting the following requirements:



 



   1.   The notice shall state, at a minimum:



 



   A.   The name and agency of the Enforcement Officer who responded to
the Loud or Unruly Gathering;



 



   B.   The address of the Residence and the date of the Loud or Unruly
Gathering, along with a description of the Loud or Unruly conduct observed;



 



   C.   That Loud or Unruly Gatherings may result in the imposition of
fines and/or penalties against any Responsible Party and/or Owner; and



 



   D.   It is unlawful to alter, tamper with or deface the notice, or
remove it prior to 30 days from the date of the posting.



 



   2.   The notice shall be a minimum of 8 1/2" x 11" in size, have
black letters on contrasting background white or colored paper, and be made
of durable laminated or other weather resistant material.



 



   (d)   Removal of Posted Notice Prohibited.



 



   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to alter, tamper with or
deface a posted notice described in Subdivision (c), or remove it prior to 30
days from the date of the posting.



 



   2.   If a posted notice is altered, tampered with, defaced, or
removed prior to 30 days from the date of posting, the notice shall be
replaced and a new 30-day posting period shall commence on the date of
replacement.



 



   (e)   Notice to Owner.  A copy of the notice posted pursuant to
Subdivision (c) of this section shall be served on the Owner by personal
service or by depositing in the mail for delivery by the United States Postal
Service, in a sealed envelope, postage prepaid, addressed to the Owner shown
on the County's last equalized property tax assessment roll.



 



   (f)   Citation Issued to Owner Absent During the Loud or Unruly
Gathering.  An Owner not present during the Loud or Unruly Gathering may be
issued a Citation for any subsequent violation of Subsection (b) after
personal service of the notice in Subsection (e) or, if the notice is only
mailed, ten (10) calendar days after the mailing of the notice to the Owner
pursuant to Subsection (e).  The Citation to the Owner not present during
the Loud or Unruly Gathering may be issued by personal service or by
depositing in the mail for delivery by the United States Postal Service, in a
sealed envelope, postage prepaid, addressed to the Owner shown on the
County's last equalized property tax assessment roll.



 



   (g)   Citation.  An Enforcement Officer may issue a Citation to the
Owner and/or Responsible Party for a violation of Subsection (b) or (d) of
this section.



 



   (h)   Fines and Penalties for Violations.



 



   1.   An Owner and/or Responsible Party issued a Citation in
violation of Subsection (b) of this section shall be subject to the following
fines:



 



   A.   An administrative fine of $100 for a first violation;



 



   B.   An administrative fine of $500 for a second violation;



 



   C.   An administrative fine of $1,000 for a third violation;



 



   D.   An administrative fine of $2,000 for a fourth violation;



 



   E.   An administrative fine of $4,000 for a fifth violation; and



 



   F.    An administrative fine of $8,000 for a sixth violation and
$8,000 for each subsequent violation.



 



   G.   A violation occurring after a period of 12 consecutive months
of no violations shall be considered a first violation.



 



   A Responsible Party and/or Owner shall be subject to these escalating
administrative fines for subsequent Loud or Unruly Gatherings even if at
different Residences associated with the Responsible Party and/or owned by
the Owner.



 



   2.   Fine for Removal of Posted Notice.  Any person in violation of
Subsection (d) of this section may be issued a Citation subject to an
administrative fine of $500.



 



   (i)   Administrative Process Applicable to Citations.  Unless
otherwise specified herein, all Citations issued for violations of this
section shall be subject to the provisions set forth in Article 1.2 of
Chapter 1 of this Code, including, but not limited to, the administrative
hearing and appeal process and the City's authority to use any civil remedy
available to collect any unpaid administrative fine.



 



   (j)   Criminal and Other Remedies Available.  Any violation of
Subsection (b) or (d) of this section may be prosecuted as a misdemeanor. 
In cases where the City Attorney elects to criminally prosecute a violation,
the defendant shall be subject to all applicable penalties authorized by
Section 11.00(m) of this Code, and not the administrative fines authorized by
this section.



 



   (k)   Severability.  If any provision of this section is found to
be unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent
jurisdiction, that invalidity shall not affect the remaining provisions of
this section which can be implemented without the invalidated provisions, and
to this end, the provisions of this section are declared to be severable.



 



 



SEC. 41.59.  PROHIBITION AGAINST CERTAIN FORMS OF AGGRESSIVE SOLICITATION.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,705, Eff. 1/27/01.)



 



   (a)   Definitions.  For purposes of this section:



 



   (1)   “Solicit, ask or beg” shall include using the spoken,
written, or printed word, or bodily gestures, signs or other means with the
purpose of obtaining an immediate donation of money or other thing of value
or soliciting the sale of goods or services.



 



   (2)   “Public place” shall mean a place to which the public or a
substantial group of persons has access, and includes, but is not limited to,
any street, highway, sidewalk, parking lot, plaza, transportation facility,
school, place of amusement, park, playground, and any doorway, entrance, 
hallway, lobby and other portion of any business establishment, an apartment
house or hotel not constituting a room or apartment designed for actual
residence.



 



   (b)   Aggressive Solicitation prohibited.



 



   (1)   No person shall solicit, ask or beg in an aggressive manner in
any public place.



 



   (2)   “Aggressive manner” shall mean any of the following:



 



   (A)   Approaching or speaking to a person, or following a person
before, during or after soliciting, asking or begging, if that conduct is
intended or is likely to cause a reasonable person to



 



   (i)   fear bodily harm to oneself or to another, damage to or loss
of property, or



 



   (ii)   otherwise be intimidated into giving money or other thing of
value;



 



   (B)   Intentionally touching or causing physical contact with
another person or an occupied vehicle without that person’s consent in the
course of soliciting, asking or begging;



 



   (C)   Intentionally blocking or interfering with the safe or free
passage of a pedestrian or vehicle by any means, including unreasonably
causing a pedestrian or vehicle operator to take evasive action to avoid
physical contact;



 



   (D)   Using violent or threatening gestures toward a person
solicited either before, during, or after soliciting, asking or begging;



 



   (E)   Persisting in closely following or approaching a person, after
the person solicited has been solicited and informed the solicitor by words
or conduct that such person does not want to be solicited or does not want to
give money or any other thing of value to the solicitor; or



 



   (F)   Using profane, offensive or abusive language which is
inherently likely to provoke an immediate violent reaction, either before,
during, or after solicitation.



 



   (c)   All solicitation prohibited at specified locations.



 



   (1)   Banks and ATMs.  No person shall solicit, ask or beg within
15 feet of any entrance or exit of any bank, savings and loan association,
credit union, or check cashing business during its business hours or within
15 feet of any automated teller machine during the time it is available for
customers’ use.  Provided, however, that when an automated teller machine
is located within an automated teller machine facility, such distance shall
be measured from the entrance or exit of the automated teller machine
facility.  Provided further that no person shall solicit, ask or beg within
an automated teller machine facility where a reasonable person would or
should know that he or she does not have the permission to do so from the
owner or other person lawfully in possession of such facility.  Nothing in
this paragraph shall be construed to prohibit the lawful vending of goods and
services within such areas.



 



   (A)   Definitions.  For purposes of this section:



 



   (i)   “Bank” means any member bank of the Federal Reserve
System, and any bank, banking association, trust company, savings bank, or
other banking institution organized or operated under the laws of the United
States, and any bank the deposits of which are insured by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation.



 



   (ii)   “Savings and loan association” means any federal savings
and loan association and any “insured institution” as defined in Section
401 of the National Housing Act, as amended, and any federal credit union as
defined in Section 2 of the Federal Credit Union Act.



 



   (iii)   “Credit union” means any federal credit union and any
state-chartered credit union the accounts of which are insured by the
Administrator of the National Credit Union Administration.



 



   (iv)   “Check cashing business” means any person duly licensed
as a check seller, bill payer, or prorater pursuant to Division 3 of the
California Financial Code, commencing with section 12000.



 



   (v)   “Automated teller machine” shall mean any electronic
information processing device which accepts or dispenses cash in connection
with a credit, deposit, or convenience account.



 



   (vi)   “Automated teller machine facility” shall mean the area
comprised of one or more automated teller machines, and any adjacent space
which is made available to banking customers after regular banking hours.



 



   (B)   Exemptions.  The provisions of Subdivision (c)(1) shall not
apply to any unenclosed automated teller machine located within any building,
structure or space whose primary purpose or function is unrelated to banking
activities, including but not limited to supermarkets, airports and school
buildings, provided that such automated teller machine shall be available for
use only during the regular hours of operation of the building, structure or
space in which such machine is located.



 



   (2)   Parking lots.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,813, Eff. 12/10/13.)



 



   (A)   Parking lots.  No person shall solicit, ask or beg in any
public parking lot or structure any time after dark.  “After dark” means
any time from one-half hour after sunset to one-half hour before sunrise.



 



   (B)   Exemptions.  Subdivision (c)(2) shall not apply to any of the
following:



 



   (i)   to solicitations related to business which is being conducted
on the subject premises by the owner or lawful tenants;



 



   (ii)   to solicitations related to the lawful towing of a vehicle; or



 



   (iii)   to solicitations related to emergency repairs requested by
the operator or other occupant of a vehicle.



 



   (3)   Public transportation vehicles.



 



   (A)   “Public transportation vehicle” shall mean any vehicle,
including a trailer bus, designed, used or maintained for carrying 10 or more
persons, including the driver; or a passenger vehicle designed for carrying
fewer than 10 persons, including the driver, and used to carry passengers for
hire.



 



   (B)   Any person who solicits, asks or begs in any public
transportation vehicle is guilty of a violation of this section.



 



   (d)   Penalty.  A violation of this section is punishable as a
misdemeanor or infraction, chargeable at the City Attorney’s discretion.



 



   (e)   Severability.  The provisions of this ordinance are declared
to be separate and severable.  The invalidity of any clause, sentence,
paragraph, subdivision, section or portion of this ordinance, or the
invalidity of the application thereof to any person or circumstance shall not
affect the validity of the remainder of this ordinance, or the validity of
its application to other persons or circumstances.



 



   (f)   Non-exclusivity.  Nothing in this chapter shall limit or
preclude the enforcement of other applicable laws.



 



 



SEC. 41.60.  HOSPITALS; PATIENT TRANSPORT.



   (Added by Ord. No. 179,913, Eff. 6/30/08.)



 



   (a)   Definitions.  As used in this section:



 



   (1)   “Health Facility” means any “health facility” as
defined in Section 1250 of the California Health and Safety Code.



 



   (2)   “Patient’s Residence” means the home of the patient, the
fixed and regular nighttime residence or domicile of the patient, or, in the
case of a patient reasonably perceived to be homeless, the location the
patient gives as his or her principal place of dwelling.



 



   (3)   “Homeless Patient” means an individual who lacks a fixed
and regular nighttime residence, or who has a primary nighttime residence
that is a supervised publicly or privately operated shelter designed to
provide temporary living accommodations, or who is residing in a public or
private place that was not designed to provide temporary living
accommodations or to be used as a sleeping accommodation for human beings.



 



   (4)   “Written Consent” means knowingly, intelligently and
voluntarily given written consent, signed by the patient or the patient’s
legal representative.



 



   (b)   Prohibited Activity.  A health facility may not transport or
cause a patient to be transported to a location other than the patient’s
residence without written consent, except when the patient is transferred to
another health facility following bona fide procedures in accordance with
another provision of law.



 



   (c)   Violations.  A violation of this section is a misdemeanor
punishable by a fine not to exceed $1,000, a term of probation not to exceed
three years, or both.



 



   (d)   Punishment Cumulative.  The punishment provided for in this
section is cumulative to any punishment, penalty, or other relief available
under any other law.



 



   (e)   Inapplicability.  This section shall not apply to:



 



   (1)   Patients in the care and custody of a California state
hospital operated and administered by the State Department of Mental Health,
who are civilly or criminally committed and subject to transfer to the State
Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation, the Forensic Conditional
Release Program, or a court for further proceedings.



 



   (2)   Patients who are in the custody or otherwise under the
jurisdiction of the State Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation,
including the Division of Juvenile Justice, the Los Angeles County Sheriff,
or the Los Angeles Police Department.



 



 



SEC. 41.70.  NUISANCE ABATEMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLES USED IN THE COMMISSION OR
ATTEMPTED COMMISSION OF AN ACT THAT VIOLATES CALIFORNIA PENAL CODE SECTION
266(h), OR 266(i), OR 374.3, OR 647(b).



   (Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 182,459, Eff. 3/1/13.)



 



   The City declares that a motor vehicle is a public nuisance subject to
seizure and impoundment for a period of up to 30 days when the motor vehicle
is used in the commission or attempted commission of an act that violates
Penal Code Section 266(h), or 266(i), or 374.3(h), or 647(b), if the owner or
operator of the vehicle has had a prior conviction for the same offense
within the past three years.  The vehicle only may be impounded pursuant to
a valid arrest of the driver for a violation of one of the Penal Code
sections listed above.



 



   (a)   Within two working days after impoundment, the impounding
agency shall send a notice by certified mail, return receipt requested, to
the legal owner of the vehicle, at the address obtained from the California
Department of Motor Vehicles, informing the owner that the vehicle has been
impounded.  The notice shall also include notice of the opportunity for a
post storage hearing to determine the validity of the storage or to determine
mitigating circumstances establishing that the vehicle should be released.
The impounding agency shall be prohibited from charging for more than five
days storage if it fails to notify the legal owner within two working days
after the impoundment when the legal owner redeems the impounded vehicle. 
The impounding agency shall maintain a published telephone number that
provides information 24 hours a day regarding the impoundment of vehicles and
the rights of a legal owner and a registered owner to request a hearing. 
The notice shall include all of the following information:



 



   (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the agency
providing the notice.



 



   (2)   The location of the place of storage and description of the
vehicle, that shall include, if available, the model or make, the
manufacturer, the license plate number, and the mileage.



 



   (3)   The authority and purpose for the removal of the vehicle.



 



   (4)   A statement that, in order to receive a post storage hearing,
the owners, or their agents, shall request the hearing in person, writing, or
by telephone within ten days of the date appearing on the notice.



 



   (b)   The post storage hearing shall be conducted within 48 hours of
the request, excluding weekends and holidays.  The public agency may
authorize one of its own officers or employees to conduct the hearing if that
hearing officer is not the same person who directed the seizure of the
vehicle.



 



   (c)   Failure of the legal and the registered owners, or their
agents, to request or to attend a scheduled hearing shall satisfy the post
storage hearing requirement.



 



   (d)   The agency employing the person who directed the storage shall
be responsible for the costs incurred for towing and storage if it is
determined in the post storage hearing that reasonable grounds for the
storage are not established.



 



   (e)   Any period during which a vehicle is subjected to storage
under this Section shall be included as part of the period of impoundment.



 



   (f)   The impounding agency shall release the vehicle to the
registered owner or his or her agent prior to the end of the impoundment
period under any of the following circumstances:



 



   (1)   The driver of the impounded vehicle was arrested without
probable cause.



 



   (2)   The vehicle is a stolen vehicle.



 



   (3)   The vehicle is subject to bailment and was driven by an
unlicensed employee of a business establishment, including a parking service
or repair garage.



 



   (4)   The driver of the vehicle is not the sole registered owner of
the vehicle and the vehicle is being released to another registered owner of
the vehicle who agrees not to allow the driver to use the vehicle until after
the end of the impoundment period.



 



   (5)   The registered owner of the vehicle was neither the driver nor
a passenger of the vehicle at the time of the alleged violation or was
unaware that the driver was using the vehicle to engage in activities subject
to Section 266(h) or 266(i), or Subdivision (b) of Section 647 of the
California Penal Code.



 



   (6)   A spouse, registered domestic partner, or other affected third
party objects to the impoundment of the vehicle on the grounds that it would
create a hardship if the subject vehicle is the sole vehicle in a
household.  The hearing officer shall release the vehicle where the hardship
to a spouse, registered domestic partner, or other affected third party
created by the impoundment of the subject vehicle, or the length of the
impoundment, outweigh the seriousness and the severity of the act in which
the vehicle was used.



 



   (g)   Notwithstanding any provision of law, if a motor vehicle is
released prior to the conclusion of the impoundment period because the driver
was arrested without probable cause, neither the arrested person nor the
registered owner of the motor vehicle shall be responsible for the towing and
storage charges.



 



   (h)   Except as provided in Subdivision (g), the registered owner or
his or her agent shall be responsible for all towing and storage charges
related to the impoundment.



 



   (i)   A vehicle removed and seized under an ordinance adopted
pursuant to this Section shall be released to the legal owner of the vehicle
or the legal owner's agent prior to the end of the impoundment period if both
of the following conditions are met:



 



   (1)   The legal owner is a motor vehicle dealer, bank, credit union,
acceptance corporation, or other licensed financial institution legally
operating in this state, or is another person who is not the registered owner
and holds a security interest in the vehicle.



 



   (2)   The legal owner or the legal owner's agent pays all towing and
storage fees related to the seizure and impoundment of the vehicle.



 



   (j)   Towing and storage fee requirements:



 



   (1)   No lien sale processing fees shall be charged to the legal
owner who redeems the vehicle prior to the 15th day of the impoundment
period.  Neither the impounding authority nor any person having possession
of the vehicle shall collect from the legal owner as described in paragraph
(1) of Subdivision (i), or the legal owner's agent, any administrative
charges imposed pursuant to California Vehicle Code Section 22850.5, unless
the legal owner voluntarily requested a post storage hearing.



 



   (2)   A person operating or in charge of a storage facility where
vehicles are stored pursuant to this Section shall accept a valid bank credit
card or cash for payment of towing, storage, and related fees by a legal or
registered owner or the owner's agent claiming the vehicle.  A credit card
or debit card shall be in the name of the person presenting the card.  For
purposes of this Section, "credit card" is as defined in Subdivision (a) of
Section 1747.02 of the California Civil Code.  Credit card does not include
a credit card issued by a retail seller.



 



   (3)   A person operating or in charge of a storage facility
described in paragraph (2) who violates paragraph (2) shall be civilly liable
to the owner of the vehicle or the person who tendered the fees for four
times the amount of the towing, storage, and related fees not to exceed five
hundred dollars ($500).



 



   (4)   A person operating or in charge of the storage facility
described in paragraph (2) shall have sufficient funds on the premises of the
primary storage facility during normal business hours to accommodate, and
make change for, a reasonable monetary transaction.



 



   (5)   Credit charges for towing and storage services shall comply
with Section 1748.1 of the California Civil Code.  Law enforcement agencies
may include the costs of providing for payment by credit when making
agreements with towing companies on rates.



 



   (6)   A failure by a storage facility to comply with any applicable
conditions set forth in this Subdivision shall not affect the right of the
legal owner or the legal owner's agent to retrieve the vehicle if all
conditions required of the legal owner or legal owner's agent under this
Subdivision are satisfied.



 



   (k)   Requirements for release of a vehicle subject to assignment or
repossession:



 



   (1)   The legal owner or the legal owner's agent shall present to
the law enforcement agency, impounding agency, person in possession of the
vehicle, or any person acting on behalf of those agencies, a copy of the
assignment, as defined in Subdivision (b) of Section 7500.1 of the California
Business and Professions Code, a release from the one responsible
governmental agency, only if required by the agency, a government-issued
photographic identification card, and any one of the following as determined
by the legal owner or the legal owner's agent:  a certificate of
repossession for the vehicle, a security agreement for the vehicle, or title,
whether or not paperless or electronic, showing proof of legal ownership for
the vehicle.  Any documents presented may be originals, photocopies, or
facsimile copies, or may be transmitted electronically.  The law enforcement
agency, impounding agency, or other governmental agency, or any person acting
on behalf of those agencies, shall not require any documents to be
notarized.  The law enforcement agency, impounding agency, or any person
acting on behalf of those agencies may require the agent of the legal owner
to produce a photocopy or facsimile copy of its repossession agency license
or registration issued pursuant to Chapter 11 (commencing with Section 7500)
of Division 3 of the California Business and Professions Code, or to
demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the law enforcement agency, impounding
agency, or any person acting on behalf of those agencies that the agent is
exempt from licensure pursuant to Section 7500.2 or 7500.3 of the California
Business and Professions Code.



 



   (2)   Administrative costs authorized under Subdivision (a) of
Section 22850.5 of the California Vehicle Code shall not be charged to the
legal owner of the type specified in paragraph (1) of Subdivision (i) who
redeems the vehicle unless the legal owner voluntarily requests a post
storage hearing.  The City shall not require a legal owner or a legal
owner's agent to request a post storage hearing as a requirement for release
of the vehicle to the legal owner or the legal owner's agent.  The law
enforcement agency, impounding agency, or other governmental agency, or any
person acting on behalf of those agencies, shall not require any documents
other than those specified in this Paragraph.  The legal owner or the legal
owner's agent shall be given a copy of any documents he or she is required to
sign, except for a vehicle evidentiary hold log book.  The law enforcement
agency, impounding agency, or any person acting on behalf of those agencies,
or any person in possession of the vehicle, may photocopy and retain the
copies of any documents presented by the legal owner or legal owner's
agent.  The legal owner shall indemnify and hold harmless a storage facility
from any claims arising out of the release of the vehicle to the legal owner
or the legal owner's agent and from any damage to the vehicle after its
release, including the reasonable costs associated with defending any such
claims.



 



   (l)   A legal owner, who meets the requirements for release of a
vehicle pursuant to Subdivision (i), or the legal owner's agent, shall not be
required to request a post storage hearing as a requirement for release of
the vehicle to the legal owner or the legal owner's agent.



 



   (m)   Time period for release of the vehicle:



 



   (1)   A legal owner, who meets the requirements for release of a
vehicle pursuant to Subdivision (i), or the legal owner's agent, shall not
release the vehicle to the registered owner of the vehicle or an agent of the
registered owner, unless the registered owner is a rental car agency, until
after the termination of the impoundment period.



 



   (2)   Prior to relinquishing the vehicle, the legal owner may
require the registered owner to pay all towing and storage charges related to
the seizure and impoundment.



 



   (n)   Time period for release of the vehicle to a rental car agency:



 



   (1)   A vehicle removed and seized pursuant to an ordinance adopted
pursuant to this Section shall be released to a rental car agency prior to
the end of the impoundment period if the agency is either the legal owner or
registered owner of the vehicle and the agency pays all towing and storage
fees related to the seizure and impoundment of the vehicle.



 



   (2)   The owner of a rental vehicle that was seized under an
ordinance adopted pursuant to this Section may continue to rent the vehicle
upon recovery of the vehicle.  However, the rental car agency shall not rent
another vehicle to the driver of the vehicle that was seized until the
impoundment period has expired.



 



   (3)   The rental car agency may require the person to whom the
vehicle was rented to pay all towing and storage charges related to the
seizure and impoundment.



 



   (o)   Severability.  If any subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase
of this Section is for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by a
court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity
of the remaining portions of this Ordinance.  The City Council hereby
declares that it would have adopted this Section, and each and every
subsection, sentence, clause and phrase thereof not declared invalid or
unconstitutional, without regard to whether any portion of the ordinance
would be subsequently declared invalid or unconstitutional.



 



 



SEC. 41.70.1.  NUISANCE VEHICLES – CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES.



   (Added by Ord. No. 175,573, Eff. 11/24/03.)



 



   A.   Definitions.



 



   “Controlled substance” means a drug, substance or immediate
precursor that is listed in any schedule in California Health and Safety Code
Sections 11054, 11055, 11056, 11057 or 11058.



 



   “Driver” means any person who drives or is in physical control of a
vehicle.



 



   “Vehicle” means any transportation device which requires the driver
to have in his or her immediate possession a valid driver’s license for the
appropriate class of vehicle being driven.



 



   B.   Abatement of Nuisance Vehicle by Seizure and Forfeiture.



 



   1.   Any vehicle used to illegally acquire or attempt to illegally
acquire any controlled substance is declared a nuisance and the vehicle shall
be enjoined and abated as provided in this section.



 



   2.   Any person or his or her servant, agent, or employee who owns,
leases, conducts or maintains any vehicle used for any of the purposes or
acts set forth in this section is responsible for creating a public nuisance.



 



   C.   Title to Vest in the City.  All right, title and interest in
any vehicle described in Subsection B. shall vest in the City upon commission
of the act giving rise to the nuisance under this section.



 



   D.   Seizure of Vehicle.



 



   1.   A peace officer may seize a vehicle subject to forfeiture under
this section upon the issuance of an order by a court having jurisdiction of
the vehicle.  Seizure without court order may be made in any of the
following circumstances:



 



   (a)   The seizure is incident to an arrest or search under a search
warrant;



 



   (b)   There is probable cause to believe the vehicle was used in
violation of this section.



 



   2.   A peace officer seizing a vehicle under this section shall
complete a receipt in accordance with Penal Code Section 1412 and deliver it
to the person from whose possession the vehicle was seized.



 



   3.   An immediate investigation shall be made by the public agency
making the seizure as to any potential claimant to a seized vehicle whose
right, title, interest, or lien is of record in the Department of Motor
Vehicles of this or any other state or appropriate federal agency. The public
agency shall send a notice of seizure within two business days of the
vehicle’s seizure, to all potential claimants whose right, title, interest
or lien did not arise subsequent to the date and time of seizure of the
vehicle, if that person or entity was not previously given a notice of
seizure.



 



   4.   The public agency seizing the vehicle shall provide any
potential claimants discovered as a result of the investigation set out in
D.3. with the opportunity for a post-seizure hearing to determine the
validity of the seizure. The post-seizure hearing shall be conducted within
two business days of the request for the hearing.  The public agency may
authorize its own officer or employee to conduct the hearing if the hearing
officer is not the same person who directed the seizure of the vehicle.
Failure of the potential claimant to request or attend a scheduled hearing
within the appropriate time frame shall satisfy the post-seizure requirement.



 



   (a)   The notice of seizure shall include the following:



 



   (i)   the name, address and telephone number of the agency providing
the notice;



 



   (ii)   the authority and reason for the seizure;



 



   (iii)   a statement that in order to receive their post-seizure
hearing, the potential claimant shall request the hearing in person, in
writing, or by telephone within ten calendar days of the date of the notice;
and



 



   (iv)   the time in which a claim of interest in the vehicle seized
or subject to forfeiture is required to be filed.



 



   5.   A vehicle seized pursuant to this section, where appropriate
may be held as evidence in any proceeding brought by the City Attorney or
District Attorney.



 



   E.   Forfeiture and Notice of Intended Forfeiture of Vehicle.



 



   1.   The City Attorney may, pursuant to this section, order the
forfeiture of vehicles seized under this section.



 



   2.   If the City Attorney determines that the factual circumstances
warrant  forfeiture of the vehicle described in Subsection B., the City
Attorney shall serve a notice of intended forfeiture upon any person who has
an interest in the seized vehicle.  The notice shall be served as soon as
practicable, but in any event within 30 calendar days of the seizure of the
vehicle subject to forfeiture.



 



   3.   The notice of intended forfeiture shall be served as follows:



 



   (a)   By personal delivery or certified mail, return receipt
requested, upon any person who has an interest in the seized vehicle as
determined pursuant to Subsection D.3.



 



   (b)   In the event that the person entitled to service refuses to
accept certified return receipt mail or cannot be personally served, service
may be made by substituted service.  Substituted service may be accomplished
by any one of the following methods:



 



   (i)   By leaving a copy during usual business hours at the
recipient’s business with the person who is apparently in charge, and by
thereafter mailing by first class mail a copy to the recipient where the copy
was left;



 



   (ii)   By leaving a copy at the recipient’s dwelling or usual
place of abode, in the presence of a competent member of the household and
thereafter mailing by first class mail a copy to the recipient at the address
where the copy was left.



 



   (c)   If the person entitled to service lives out of state and will
not accept certified return receipt mail, then service may be made by first
class mail.



 



   (d)   If the person entitled to notice cannot be located, or service
cannot be effected as set forth in this subsection, service may be made by
publication in a Los Angeles newspaper of general circulation.  Service
shall be deemed sufficient when it is accomplished pursuant to Government
Code Section 6063.



 



   F.   Claim Opposing Forfeiture and Court Proceedings.



 



   1.   A person claiming an interest in the vehicle seized pursuant to
Subsection B. must within ten calendar days from the date of the notice of
intended forfeiture or within 30 calendar days from the date of first
publication of the notice of intended forfeiture, file with the Superior
Court of the county in which the vehicle was seized, a Claim Opposing
Forfeiture, verified in accordance with Section 446 of the Code of Civil 
Procedure, stating his, her or its interest in the vehicle.  An endorsed
copy of the claim shall be served upon the City Attorney within ten calendar
days of the filing of the claim.



 



   2.   If a verified claim is filed in accordance with this section,
the forfeiture proceeding shall be set for hearing within 30 calendar days
from the date the claim is filed with the court. The City Attorney shall file
a petition for forfeiture with the court within ten calendar days of service
of the claim upon the City Attorney. A copy of the petition shall be served
upon the claimant.



 



   3.   The hearing shall be before the Superior Court of Los Angeles
County.  The provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure shall apply to
proceedings under this section unless otherwise inconsistent with the
provisions or procedures set forth in this section.  However, in proceedings
under this section, there shall be no joinder of actions, coordination of
actions, except for forfeiture proceedings, or cross-complaints, and the
issues shall be limited strictly to the questions related to this section.
Trial shall be by court or jury.



 



   4.   With respect to vehicles described in Subsection B. for which
forfeiture is sought and as to which forfeiture is contested, the City
Attorney shall have the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence
that the vehicle was used as set forth in  Subsection B.



 



   5.   Upon proof that the vehicle was used for any of the purposes
set forth in Subsection B., the court shall declare the vehicle a nuisance
and order that the vehicle be forfeited, sold, and the proceeds distributed
as set forth in Subsection G.  The court may make a different distribution
of the proceeds, if the court finds that the claimant did not know that the
vehicle was used for a purpose that constitutes a violation of this section



 



   6.   If no claims are timely filed, the City Attorney shall prepare
a written declaration of forfeiture of the vehicle to the City.  A written
declaration of forfeiture signed by the City Attorney under this section
shall be deemed to provide good and sufficient title to the forfeited
vehicle.  The proceeds from the disposal of the vehicle declared forfeited
by the City Attorney shall be distributed in accordance with Subsection G. 
The City Attorney ordering forfeiture pursuant to this section shall provide
a copy of the declaration of forfeiture to any person who received notice of
the forfeiture proceedings.



 



   G.   Disposal of Vehicle and Distribution of Proceeds.



 



   1.   In all cases where vehicles seized pursuant to this section are
forfeited to the City, the vehicles shall be sold, or if cash is paid as
settlement in lieu of forfeiture of the vehicle, the proceeds of sale or
settlement shall be distributed and appropriated as follows:



 



   (a)   To pay costs associated with the towing, storage and release
of any vehicle seized under this section.



 



   (b)    To pay costs associated with the sale of the vehicle.



 



   (c)   To the lien holder of the vehicle, if any, up to the amount of
his, her or its interest in the vehicle.



 



   2.   The remaining funds shall be distributed as follows:



 



   (a)   To the City Attorney for all expenditures other than personnel
costs, made or incurred by the Office in connection with the enforcement of
this section, including but not limited to, costs for equipment,
investigation, supplies, litigation, insurance and liability resulting from
enforcement of this section and costs of publication of the notices set forth
in Subsection E.



 



   (b)   To local law enforcement for all expenditures other than
personnel costs, made or incurred by the Department in connection with
enforcement of this section, including but not limited to, costs for
equipment, investigation and supplies related to enforcement of this section.



 



   (c)   To the general fund.



   



   3.   For budgeting purposes, funds attributable to this ordinance
shall not be considered anticipated revenue into the general fund.



 



   H.   Stolen Vehicles.  A vehicle that has been reported stolen,
prior to a seizure under this section shall not be subject to forfeiture
unless the identity of the registered owner cannot be reasonably ascertained
or the registered owner fails to redeem the vehicle within 60 days of the
seizure.  The registered owner of the vehicle may claim the vehicle upon
payment of tow, storage and release charges, provided the vehicle is not
subject to any holds for traffic or parking violations and the vehicle
registration is current.



 



   I.   Recovery of Monetary Loss.  Nothing in this section shall
preclude an owner of a vehicle who suffers a monetary loss from the
forfeiture of a vehicle under this section from recovering the amount of the
actual monetary loss from the person who committed the act giving rise to
forfeiture under this section.



 



 



SEC. 41.70.2.  NUISANCE VEHICLES – SPEED CONTESTS AND EXHIBITIONS OF SPEED.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 175,848, Eff. 4/24/04.)



 



   A.   Definitions.



 



   Driver means any person who drives a motor vehicle.



 



   Exhibition of speed means a willful act of showing off or displaying a
dangerous or imprudent speed in a vehicle on a highway where the presence of
another person is known to the driver or may reasonably be anticipated by him
or her.  In order to constitute an exhibition of speed under this section,
there must be spectators present at the event.



 



   Highway means a way or place of whatever nature, which is used by the
public for vehicular travel. It does not include a facility which is
specifically designed and legally maintained for the purposes of speed
contests or exhibitions of speed.



 



   Speed contest means a contest where a vehicle is raced on a highway
against another vehicle, a clock, or other timing device.  In order to
constitute a speed contest under this section, at least two vehicles must be
assembled or spectators must be present at the event.  An event where the
time to cover a prescribed route of more than 20 miles is measured, but where
the vehicle does not exceed the speed limit is not a  speed contest.



 



   Vehicle means any transportation device that requires the driver to
have in his or her immediate possession a valid driver’s license for the
appropriate class of vehicle being driven and which transportation device is
equipped with a motor.



 



   B.   Abatement of Nuisance Vehicle by Seizure and Forfeiture.



 



   1.   Any vehicle used in a speed contest is declared a nuisance and
the vehicle shall be enjoined and abated as provided in this section.



 



   2.   Any vehicle used in an exhibition of speed is declared a
nuisance and the vehicle shall be enjoined and abated as provided in this
section.



 



   3.   Any person or his or her servant, agent, or employee who owns,
leases, conducts or maintains any vehicle used for any of the purposes or
acts set forth in this section is responsible for creating a public nuisance.



 



   C.   Title to Vest in the City.  All rights, title and interest in
any vehicle described in Subsection B. shall vest in the City upon commission
of the act giving rise to the nuisance under this section.



 



   D.   Seizure of Vehicle.



 



   1.   A peace officer may seize a vehicle subject to forfeiture under
this section upon the issuance of an order by a court having jurisdiction of
the vehicle.  Seizure without court order may be made in any of the
following circumstances:



 



   (a)   The seizure is incident to an arrest or search under a search
warrant;



 



   (b)   There is probable cause to believe the vehicle was used in
violation of this section.



 



   2.   A peace officer seizing a vehicle under this section shall
complete a receipt in accordance with Penal Code Section 1412 and deliver it
to the person from whose possession the vehicle was seized.



 



   3.   An immediate investigation shall be made by the public agency
making the seizure as to any potential claimant to a vehicle whose right,
title, interest, or lien is of record in the Department of Motor Vehicles of
this or any other state or appropriate federal agency.  If the public agency
finds that any person, other than the registered owner, is the legal owner,
and the ownership did not arise subsequent to the date and time of arrest or
seizure of the vehicle or notification of the forfeiture proceedings, it
shall, within two business days of the vehicle’ s seizure, send a notice of
seizure to the legal owner at his or her address appearing on the records of
the Department of Motor Vehicles of this or any other state or any
appropriate federal agency.



 



   4.   The public agency seizing the vehicle shall provide any
potential claimants discovered as a result of the investigation set out in
D.3. with the opportunity for a post-seizure hearing to determine the
validity of the seizure. The post-seizure hearing shall be conducted within
two business days of the request.  The public agency may authorize its own
officer or employee to conduct the hearing if the hearing officer is not the
same person who directed the seizure of the vehicle. Failure of either the
registered or legal owner, or his or her agent, to request or attend a
scheduled hearing within the appropriate time frame shall satisfy the
post-seizure requirement.



 



   The notice of seizure shall include the following:



 



   (i)   the name, address and telephone number of the agency providing
the notice;



 



   (ii)   the authority and reason for the seizure;



 



   (iii)   a statement that in order to receive their post seizure
hearing, the owners, or their agents, shall request the hearing in person, in
writing, or by telephone within ten calendar days of the date of the notice;
and



 



   (iv)   the time in which a claim of interest in the vehicle seized
or subject to forfeiture is required to be filed.



 



   (v)   A vehicle seized pursuant to this section, where appropriate,
may be held as evidence in any proceeding brought by the City Attorney or
District Attorney.



 



   E.   Forfeiture and Notice of Intended Forfeiture of Vehicle.



 



   1.   The City Attorney may, pursuant to this section, order the
forfeiture of vehicles seized under this section.



 



   2.   If the City Attorney determines that the factual circumstances
warrant forfeiture of the vehicle described in Subsection B., the City
Attorney shall serve a notice of intended forfeiture upon any person who has
an interest in the seized vehicle.  The notice shall be served as soon as
practicable, but in any event within 30 calendar days of the seizure of the
vehicle subject to forfeiture.



 



   3.   The notice of intended forfeiture shall be served as follows:



 



   (a)   The notice of intended forfeiture shall be served by personal
delivery or certified mail, return receipt requested, upon any person who has
an interest in the seized vehicle as determined pursuant to Subsection D.3.



 



   (b)   In the event that the person entitled to service refuses to
accept certified return receipt mail or cannot be personally served, service
may be made by substituted service.  Substituted service may be accomplished
by any one of the following methods:



 



   (i)   By leaving a copy during usual business hours at the
recipient’s business with the person who is apparently in charge, and by
thereafter mailing by first class mail a copy to the recipient where the copy
was left;



 



   (ii)   By leaving a copy at the recipient’s dwelling or usual
place of abode, in the presence of a competent member of the household and
thereafter mailing by first class mail a copy to the recipient at the address
where the copy was left.



 



   (c)   If the person entitled to service lives out of state and will
not accept certified return receipt mail, then service may be made by first
class mail.



 



   (d)   If the person entitled to notice cannot be located, or service
cannot be made as set forth in this subsection, service may be made by
publication in a Los Angeles newspaper of general circulation.  Service
shall be deemed sufficient when it is accomplished pursuant to Government
Code Section 6063.



 



   F.   Claim Opposing Forfeiture and Court Proceedings.



 



   1.   A person claiming an interest in the vehicle seized pursuant to
Subsection B. must within ten calendar days from the date of the notice of
intended forfeiture or within 30 calendar days from the date of first
publication of the notice of intended forfeiture, file with the Superior
Court of the county in which the vehicle was seized, a Claim Opposing
Forfeiture, verified in accordance with Section 446 of the Code of Civil
Procedure, stating his or her interest in the vehicle.  An endorsed copy of
the claim shall be served upon the City Attorney within ten calendar days of
the filing of the claim.



 



   2.   If a verified claim is filed in accordance with this section,
the forfeiture proceeding shall be set for hearing within 30 calendar days
from the date the claim is filed with the court. The City Attorney shall file
a petition for forfeiture with the court within ten calendar days of service
of the claim upon the City Attorney.  A copy of the petition shall be served
upon the claimant.



 



   3.   The hearing shall be before the Superior Court of Los Angeles
County.  The provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure shall apply to
proceedings under this section unless otherwise inconsistent with the
provisions or procedures set forth in this section.  However, in proceedings
under this section, there shall be no joinder or coordination of actions,
except for forfeiture proceedings, or cross-complaints, and the issues shall
be limited strictly to the questions related to this section. Trial shall be
by court or jury.



 



   4.   With respect to vehicles described in Subsection B. for which
forfeiture is sought and as to which forfeiture is contested, the City
Attorney shall have the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence
that the vehicle was used as set forth in Subsection B.



 



   5.   Upon proof that the vehicle was used for any of the purposes
set forth in Subsection B., the court shall declare the vehicle a nuisance
and order that the vehicle be forfeited and the proceeds upon sale
distributed as set forth in Subsection G.  The court may make a different
distribution of the proceeds, if the court finds that the claimant did not
know that the vehicle was used for a purpose that constitutes a violation of
this section.



 



   6.   If no claims are timely filed, the City Attorney shall prepare
a written declaration of forfeiture of the vehicle to the City.  A written
declaration of forfeiture signed by the City Attorney under this section
shall be deemed to provide good and sufficient title to the forfeited
vehicle.  The proceeds from the disposal of the vehicle declared forfeited
by the City Attorney shall be distributed in accordance with Subsection G. 
The City Attorney ordering forfeiture pursuant to this section shall provide
a copy of the declaration of forfeiture to any person who received notice of
the forfeiture proceedings.



 



   G.   Disposal of Vehicle and Distribution of Proceeds.



 



   1.   In all cases where vehicles seized pursuant to this section are
forfeited to the City, the vehicles shall be sold or destroyed.  The
proceeds of sale shall be distributed and appropriated as follows:



 



   (a)   To pay costs associated with the towing, storage and release
of any vehicle seized under this section;



 



   (b)   To pay costs associated with the sale of the vehicle; and



 



   (c)   To the lien holder of the vehicle, if any, up to the amount of
his, her or its interest in the vehicle.



 



   2.   The remaining funds shall be distributed as follows:



 



   (a)   To the City Attorney for all expenditures other than personnel
costs, made or incurred by the Office in connection with the enforcement of
this section, including but not limited to, costs for equipment,
investigation, supplies, litigation, insurance and liability resulting from
enforcement of this section and costs of publication of the notices set forth
in Subsection E.



 



   (b)   To local law enforcement for all expenditures other than
personnel costs, made or incurred by the Department in connection with
enforcement of this section, including but not limited to, costs for
equipment, investigation and supplies related to enforcement of this section.



 



   (c)   To the general fund.



 



   3.   A vehicle may be destroyed only if the condition of the vehicle
warrants destruction and there are no lien holders or claimants who did not
know that the vehicle was used for a purpose that constitutes a violation of
this section.



 



   4.   A forfeited vehicle shall not be sold to the person who was the
driver of the vehicle at the time the vehicle was seized.



 



   5.   In lieu of forfeiture, a settlement may be negotiated, in which
case the proceeds of the settlement shall be distributed and appropriated as
follows:



 



   (a)   To the City Attorney for all expenditures other than personnel
costs, made or incurred by the Office in connection with the enforcement of
this section, including but not limited to, costs for equipment,
investigation, supplies, litigation, insurance and liability resulting from
enforcement of this section and costs of publication of the notices set forth
in Subsection E.



 



   (b)   To local law enforcement for all expenditures other than
personnel costs, made or incurred by the Department in connection with
enforcement of this section, including but not limited to, costs for
equipment, investigation and supplies related to enforcement of this section.



 



   (c)   To the general fund.



 



   6.   For budgeting purposes, funds attributable to this ordinance
shall not be considered anticipated revenue into the general fund.



 



   H.   Stolen Vehicles.  A vehicle that has been reported stolen,
prior to a seizure under this section shall not be subject to forfeiture
unless the identity of the registered owner cannot be reasonably ascertained
or the registered owner fails to redeem the vehicle within 60 days of the
seizure.  The registered owner of the vehicle may claim the vehicle upon
payment of tow, storage and release charges, provided the vehicle is not
subject to any holds for traffic or parking violations and the vehicle
registration is current.



 



   I.   Recovery of Monetary Loss.  Nothing in this section shall
preclude an owner of a vehicle who suffers a monetary loss from the
forfeiture of a vehicle under this section from recovering the amount of the
actual monetary loss from the person who committed the act giving rise to
forfeiture under this section.















SEC. 41.70.3.  NUISANCE VEHICLES – ILLEGAL DUMPING.



   (Added by Ord. No. 175,575, Eff. 11/29/03.)



 



   A.   Definitions.



 



   “Authorized public officer” means a public officer authorized under
Los Angeles Municipal Code Section 61.07(a).



 



   “Bulky item” means any discarded furniture, home or industrial
appliance or abandoned vehicle or a part of an abandoned vehicle.



 



   “Driver” means any person who drives a motor vehicle.



 



   “Hazardous waste” means any waste as defined in California Health
and Safety Code Section 25117.



 



   “Illegal dumping” means the wilful throwing, dropping, placing or
depositing of a bulky item, hazardous waste or solid waste on public or
private property not designated for that dumping or disposal  purpose.
“Illegal dumping” does not include the discarding, dropping, or
scattering of small quantities of waste matter ordinarily carried on or about
the person, including, but not limited to, beverage containers and closures,
packaging, wrappers, wastepaper, newspapers, and magazines and including
waste matter that  escapes or is allowed to escape from a container,
receptacle, or package.



 



   “Solid waste” means all putrescible and non-putrescible solid,
semisolid and liquid wastes, including garbage, trash, refuse, paper,
rubbish, ashes, industrial wastes, demolition and construction wastes,
dewatered, treated or chemically fixed sewage sludge, which is not hazardous
waste, manure, vegetable or animal solid and semisolid wastes, and other
discarded solid and semisolid wastes.  Solid waste does not include
hazardous waste.



 



   “Vehicle” means any transportation device that requires the driver
to have in his or her immediate possession a valid driver’s license for the
appropriate class of vehicle being driven and which transportation device is
equipped with a motor.



 



   B.   Abatement of Nuisance Vehicle by Seizure and Forfeiture.



 



   1.   Any vehicle used for the purpose of illegal dumping is a
nuisance and the vehicle shall be enjoined and abated as provided in this
section.



 



   2.   Any vehicle used to transport any bulky item, any hazardous
waste or solid  waste for the purpose of illegal dumping is a nuisance and
the vehicle shall be enjoined and abated as provided in this section.



 



   3.   Any person or his or her servant, agent, or employee who owns,
leases, conducts or maintains any vehicle used for any of the purposes or
acts set forth in this section is responsible for creating a public nuisance.



 



   C.   Title to Vest in the City.  All rights, title and interest in
any vehicle described in Subsection B. shall vest in the City upon commission
of the act giving rise to the nuisance under this section.



 



   D.   Seizure of Vehicle.



 



   1.   A peace officer or authorized public officer may seize a
vehicle subject to forfeiture under this section upon the issuance of an
order by a court having jurisdiction of the vehicle.  Seizure without court
order may be made in any of the following circumstances:



 



   (a)   The seizure is incident to an arrest or search under a search
warrant;



 



   (b)   There is probable cause to believe the vehicle was used in
violation of this section.



 



   2.   A peace officer or authorized public officer seizing a vehicle
under this section shall complete a receipt in accordance with Penal Code
Section 1412 and deliver it to the person from whose possession the vehicle
was seized.



 



   3.   An immediate investigation shall be made by the public agency
making the seizure as to any potential claimant to a seized vehicle whose
right, title, interest, or lien is of record in the Department of Motor
Vehicles of this or any other state or appropriate federal agency. The public
agency shall send a notice of seizure within two business days of the
vehicle’s seizure, to all potential claimants whose right, title, interest
or lien did not arise subsequent to the date and time of seizure of the
vehicle, if that person or entity was not previously given a notice of
seizure.



 



   4.   The public agency seizing the vehicle shall provide any
potential claimants discovered as a result of the investigation set out in
D.3. with the opportunity for a post-seizure hearing to determine the
validity of the seizure. The post-seizure hearing shall be conducted within
two business days of the request for the hearing.  The public agency may
authorize its own officer or employee to conduct the hearing if the hearing
officer is not the same person who directed the seizure of the vehicle.
Failure of the potential claimant to request or attend a scheduled hearing
within the appropriate time frame shall satisfy the post-seizure requirement.



 



   (a)   The notice of seizure shall include the following:



 



   (i)   the name, address and telephone number of the agency providing
the notice;



 



   (ii)   the authority and reason for the seizure;



 



   (iii)   a statement that in order to receive their post-seizure
hearing, the potential claimant shall request the hearing in person, in
writing, or by telephone within ten calendar days of the date of the notice;
and



 



   (iv)   the time in which a claim of interest in the vehicle seized
or subject to forfeiture is required to be filed.



 



   5.   A vehicle seized pursuant to this section, where appropriate
may be held as evidence in any proceeding brought by the City Attorney or
District Attorney.



 



   E.   Forfeiture and Notice of Intended Forfeiture of Vehicle.



 



   1.   The City Attorney may, pursuant to this section, order the
forfeiture of vehicles seized under this section.



 



   2.   If the City Attorney determines that the factual circumstances
warrant  forfeiture of the vehicle described in Subsection B., the City
Attorney shall serve a notice of intended forfeiture upon any person who has
an interest in the seized vehicle.  The notice shall be served as soon as
practicable, but in any event within 30 calendar days of the seizure of the
vehicle subject to forfeiture.



 



   3.   The notice of intended forfeiture shall be served as follows:



 



   (a)   By personal delivery or certified mail, return receipt
requested, upon any person who has an interest in the seized vehicle as
determined pursuant to Subsection D.3.



 



   (b)   In the event that the person entitled to service refuses to
accept certified return receipt mail or cannot be personally served, service
may be made by substituted service.  Substituted service may be accomplished
by any one of the following methods:



 



   (i)   By leaving a copy during usual business hours at the
recipient’s business with the person who is apparently in charge, and by
thereafter mailing by first class mail a copy to the recipient where the copy
was left;



 



   (ii)   By leaving a copy at the recipient’s dwelling or usual
place of abode, in the presence of a competent member of the household and
thereafter mailing by first class mail a copy to the recipient at the address
where the copy was left.



 



   (c)   If the person entitled to service lives out of state and will
not accept certified return receipt mail, then service may be made by first
class mail.



 



   (d)   If the person entitled to notice cannot be located, or service
cannot be effected as set forth in this subsection, service may be made by
publication in a Los Angeles newspaper of general circulation.  Service
shall be deemed sufficient when it is accomplished pursuant to Government
Code Section 6063.



 



   F.   Claim Opposing Forfeiture and Court Proceedings.



 



   1.   A person claiming an interest in the vehicle seized pursuant to
Subsection B. must within ten calendar days from the date of the notice of
intended forfeiture or within 30 calendar days from the date of first
publication of the notice of intended forfeiture, file with the Superior
Court of the county in which the vehicle was seized, a Claim Opposing
Forfeiture, verified in accordance with Section 446 of the Code of Civil 
Procedure, stating his, her or its interest in the vehicle.  An endorsed
copy of the claim shall be served upon the City Attorney within ten calendar
days of the filing of the claim.



 



   2.   If a verified claim is filed in accordance with this section,
the forfeiture proceeding shall be set for hearing within 30 calendar days
from the date the claim is filed with the court. The City Attorney shall file
a petition for forfeiture with the court within ten calendar days of service
of the claim upon the City Attorney. A copy of the petition shall be served
upon the claimant.



 



   3.   The hearing shall be before the Superior Court of Los Angeles
County.  The provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure shall apply to
proceedings under this section unless otherwise inconsistent with the
provisions or procedures set forth in this section.  However, in proceedings
under this section, there shall be no joinder of actions, coordination of
actions, except for forfeiture proceedings, or cross-complaints, and the
issues shall be limited strictly to the questions related to this section.
Trial shall be by court or jury.



 



   4.   With respect to vehicles described in Subsection B. for which
forfeiture is sought and as to which forfeiture is contested, the City
Attorney shall have the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence
that the vehicle was used as set forth in  Subsection B.



 



   5.   Upon proof that the vehicle was used for any of the purposes
set forth in Subsection B., the court shall declare the vehicle a nuisance
and order that the vehicle be forfeited, sold, and the proceeds distributed
as set forth in Subsection G.  The court may make a different distribution
of the proceeds, if the court finds that the claimant did not know that the
vehicle was used for a purpose that constitutes a violation of this section



 



   6.   If no claims are timely filed, the City Attorney shall prepare
a written declaration of forfeiture of the vehicle to the City.  A written
declaration of forfeiture signed by the City Attorney under this section
shall be deemed to provide good and sufficient title to the forfeited
vehicle.  The proceeds from the disposal of the vehicle declared forfeited
by the City Attorney shall be distributed in accordance with Subsection G. 
The City Attorney ordering forfeiture pursuant to this section shall provide
a copy of the declaration of forfeiture to any person who received notice of
the forfeiture proceedings.



 



   G.   Disposal of Vehicle and Distribution of Proceeds.



 



   1.   In all cases where vehicles seized pursuant to this section are
forfeited to the City, the vehicles shall be sold, or if cash is paid as
settlement in lieu of forfeiture of the vehicle, the proceeds of sale or
settlement shall be distributed and appropriated as follows:



 



   (a)   To pay costs associated with the towing, storage and release
of any vehicle seized under this section.



 



   (b)   To pay costs associated with the sale of the vehicle.



 



   (c)   To the lien holder of the vehicle, if any, up to the amount of
his, her or its interest in the vehicle.



 



   2.   The remaining funds shall be distributed as follows:



 



   (a)   To the City Attorney for all expenditures other than personnel
costs, made or incurred by the Office in connection with the enforcement of
this section, including but not limited to, costs for equipment,
investigation, supplies, litigation, insurance and liability resulting from
enforcement of this section and costs of publication of the notices set forth
in Subsection E.



 



   (b)   To local law enforcement for all expenditures other than
personnel costs, made or incurred by the Department in connection with
enforcement of this section, including but not limited to, costs for
equipment, investigation and supplies related to enforcement of this section.



 



   (c)   To the general fund.



   



   3.   For budgeting purposes, funds attributable to this ordinance
shall not be considered anticipated revenue into the general fund.



 



   H.   Stolen Vehicles.  A vehicle that has been reported stolen,
prior to a seizure under this section shall not be subject to forfeiture
unless the identity of the registered owner cannot be reasonably ascertained
or the registered owner fails to redeem the vehicle within 60 days of the
seizure.  The registered owner of the vehicle may claim the vehicle upon
payment of tow, storage and release charges, provided the vehicle is not
subject to any holds for traffic or parking violations and the vehicle
registration is current.



 



   I.   Recovery of Monetary Loss.  Nothing in this section shall
preclude an owner of a vehicle who suffers a monetary loss from the
forfeiture of a vehicle under this section from recovering the amount of the
actual monetary loss from the person who committed the act giving rise to
forfeiture under this section.



 



 



SEC. 41.71.  GANG-RELATED NUISANCE VEHICLE FORFEITURE.



   (Added by Ord. No. 180,465, Eff. 2/8/09.)



 



   (a)   Definitions.  As used in this section:



 



   (1)   "Gang Injunction" means a court order, in the form of a
preliminary or permanent injunction, issued against an identified criminal
street gang as an unincorporated association or organization, the provisions
of which seek to enjoin the gang's nuisance activities in a delineated
geographic area known as the "Safety Zone".



 



   (2)   "Gang Member" means a member of a "criminal street gang" as
that term is defined in Penal Code section 186.22, subdivision (t).



 



   (3)   "Legal Owner" means the "legal owner" of a vehicle as defined
in Vehicle Code section 370.



 



   (4)   "Registered Owner" means the "registered owner" of a vehicle
as defined in Vehicle Code section 505.



 



   (5)   "Safety Zone" means a geographic area delineated in any gang
injunction within which a gang's nuisance activities are to be enjoined.



 



   (6)   "Vehicle" means any transportation device that would require a
driver of the vehicle to have in his or her immediate possession a valid
driver's license for the appropriate class of vehicle.



 



   (b)   Circumstances in Which Vehicle Becomes Nuisance Subject to
Seizure and Forfeiture.  A vehicle used in any of the following
circumstances is a nuisance that shall be enjoined and abated as provided in
this section:



 



   (1)   Any vehicle used within the City by one or more gang members
for the purpose of the commission of any of the offenses listed in Penal Code
section 186.22, subdivision (e), except for the offenses listed in
subdivision (e)(4) (relating to the sale, transportation and manufacture of
controlled substances).



 



   (2)   Any vehicle used within a Safety Zone in which a gang member
who is subject to and has notice of the Gang Injunction is:



 



   (A)   Present with another known gang member in violation of the
Gang Injunction; or



 



   (B)   Present and in actual or constructive possession of graffiti
tools in violation of the Gang Injunction; or



 



   (C)   Present and transporting, concealing, or storing a firearm or
any ammunition, the possession of which would be a violation of the Gang
Injunction.



 



   (c)   Title to Vest in the City.  All right, title and interest in
any vehicle used in any of the circumstances described in subsection (b)
shall vest in the City upon commission of the act giving rise to the nuisance.



 



   (d)   Seizure of Vehicle.



 



   (1)   A peace officer may seize a vehicle for forfeiture upon the
issuance of an order by a court having jurisdiction of the vehicle.



 



   (2)   A peace officer may seize a vehicle for forfeiture without a
court order when:



 



   (A)   The seizure is incident to an arrest or a search conducted
pursuant to a search warrant; or



 



   (B)   There is probable cause to believe that the vehicle is being
used in any of the circumstances described in subsection (b).



 



   (3)   A peace officer seizing a vehicle under this section shall
complete a vehicle report and deliver it to the person from whose possession
the vehicle was seized.



 



   (e)   Post-Seizure Investigation and Notice to Registered and Legal
Owners.



 



   (1)   Upon seizure of a vehicle under this section, the seizing
agency shall immediately conduct an investigation as to any registered owner
and any legal owner of record with the Department of Motor Vehicles of this
or any other state or appropriate federal agency.



 



   (2)   If the agency finds that any person is the registered or legal
owner, and that such ownership or interest did not arise subsequent to the
date and time of seizure of the vehicle or notification of the forfeiture
proceedings, the agency shall send the following to each such person at his,
her, or its address, as it appears in the records of the Department of Motor
Vehicles of this or any other state or any appropriate federal agency, within
three (3) business days of the vehicle's seizure:



 



   (A)   A Notice of Seizure, which shall include the name, address and
telephone number of the agency providing the notice as well as the authority
and reason for the seizure; and



 



   (B)   Information about the availability of a post-seizure hearing,
which shall include a statement that in order to receive a post-seizure
hearing, the owner, or his or her attorney or agent, must request the hearing
in person, or in writing, or by telephone within ten (10) calendar days of
the date of the Notice; and



 



   (C)   Information about how to file a claim, which shall include the
time in which a claim of interest in the vehicle seized or subject to
forfeiture is required to be filed; and



 



   (D)   A claim form.



 



   (f)   Post-Seizure Hearing.



 



   (1)   When requested, the post-seizure hearing shall be. conducted
within three (3) business days of the seizing agency's receipt of the request
for such a hearing.  The agency may authorize its own officer or employee to
conduct the hearing as long as the hearing officer is not the same person who
seized or directed the seizure of the vehicle.  The hearing also may be
conducted by a City Attorney hearing officer designated to conduct such
hearings.



 



   (2)   The vehicle shall be retained upon a determination of probable
cause that the vehicle was used in one or more of the circumstances described
in subsection (b).



 



   (3)   Failure of either the registered owner or legal owner, or his
or her attorney or agent, to request or attend a scheduled post-seizure
hearing within the appropriate time frame shall satisfy any post-seizure
hearing requirement.



 



   (4)   Notwithstanding a determination of probable cause, the hearing
officer has the authority and discretion to direct return of the vehicle to
the registered owner pending further action under this section, upon payment
of towing, storage and release charges, if the hearing officer is satisfied,
considering all reliable and available information, that:



 



   (A)   The registered owner is not a gang member; and



 



   (B)   The registered owner was not operating or present in or around
the vehicle at the time of the violation resulting in its seizure; and



 



   (C)   The registered owner did not authorize or negligently permit
the vehicle to be used in one or more of the circumstances described in
subsection (b); and



 



   (D)   The vehicle was not previously seized, impounded, or
reportedly used in furtherance of any criminal activity while in the
possession or control of the registered owner; and



 



   (E)   The registered owner relies upon the vehicle for legitimate
transportation purposes.



 



   (g)   Notice to Interested Persons of Intended Forfeiture of Vehicle.



 



   (1)   If the City Attorney determines that the factual circumstances
described in subsection (b) warrant forfeiture of the vehicle, the City
Attorney shall serve a Notice of Intended Forfeiture upon any person who has
an interest in the seized vehicle as determined pursuant to subsection (e).
The Notice shall be served as soon as practicable, but in any event within
thirty (30) calendar days of the seizure of the vehicle subject to forfeiture.



 



   (2)   The Notice of Intended Forfeiture shall be served by personal
delivery, or by certified mail return receipt requested, to the address on
record with the Department of Motor Vehicles, or any other address a person
entitled to receive service under subsection (e) designates in writing to the
City Attorney.



 



   (3)   In the event that a person entitled to service under this
section cannot be personally served, or the certified return receipt is not
received by the City Attorney within ten (10) business days of mailing,
substitute service may be accomplished by either of the following methods:



 



   (A)   By leaving a copy of the Notice at the address on record with
the Department of Motor Vehicles and any other address a person entitled to
receive service under subsection (e) designates in writing to the City
Attorney, and by mailing a copy to the recipient at the address where the
copy was left and any other address designated in writing to the City
Attorney; or



 



   (B)   By first class mail, if the person entitled to service resides
out of state.



 



   (4)   Service of the Notice of Intended Forfeiture shall be deemed
complete if the recipient acknowledges receipt of the Notice verbally or in
writing, or the certified return receipt is received by the City Attorney, or
upon completion of personal or substitute service.



 



   (h)   Filing of Claims Opposing Forfeiture and Court Proceedings
Thereon.



 



   (1)   A person claiming an interest in a vehicle seized pursuant to
subsection (d) must, within ten (10) calendar days from the date of personal
service or mailing of the Notice of the Intended Forfeiture, file with the
Superior Court of the County of Los Angeles a Claim Opposing Forfeiture,
verified in accordance with Code of Civil Procedure section 446.  The Claim
shall describe the person's interest in the vehicle.  A copy of the Claim
shall be served upon the City Attorney.



 



   (2)   If a verified Claim is filed in accordance with this section,
the forfeiture proceeding shall be set for hearing within thirty (30)
calendar days from the date the Claim is filed with the court.



 



   (3)   The City Attorney shall file a Petition for Forfeiture within
ten (10) calendar days of being served with the Claim.  The Petition for
Forfeiture shall identify the vehicle to be forfeited, state the date and
place of the seizure, describe the factual and legal basis for the
forfeiture, and state the estimated value of the vehicle.



 



   (4)   All discovery shall be completed on or before the fifth
calendar day before the hearing date, which date may be extended in the
court's discretion.



 



   (5)   The hearing shall be before the Superior Court of the County
of Los Angeles.  The provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure shall apply
to such proceedings unless otherwise inconsistent with the provisions or,
procedures set forth in this section.  A proceeding under this subsection is
a summary proceeding and there shall be no joinder of actions, coordination
of actions, or cross-complaints.  The issues to be determined shall be
limited strictly to those related to this section.  Trial shall be by court
or jury.



 



   (i)   Contested Forfeiture of Vehicle.



 



   (1)   Where forfeiture pursuant to this section is contested, the
City Attorney shall have the burden of proving by a preponderance of the
evidence that the vehicle was used in one or more of the circumstances
described in subsection (b).



 



   (2)   Upon proof that the vehicle was used in any of the
circumstances described in subsection (b), the court shall:



 



   (A)   Declare the vehicle a nuisance; and



 



   (B)   Order that the vehicle be forfeited and sold, and that the
proceeds from the sale be distributed in accordance with subsection (n); or



 



   (C)   If the vehicle was returned to the registered owner pursuant
to subsection (f)(4), that it be seized, forfeited and sold, and that the
proceeds from the sale be distributed in accordance with subsection (n).



 



   (j)   Return to Innocent Owner.  Notwithstanding that a vehicle
seized under this section may have been used in one or more of the
circumstances described in subsection (b), the vehicle shall not be subject
to forfeiture and shall be returned to the registered owner, upon payment of
towing, storage and release charges, if the registered owner establishes by a
preponderance of the evidence that all of the following circumstances exist:



 



   (1)   The registered owner was not operating or present in or around
the vehicle at the time of the violation resulting in its seizure; and



 



   (2)   The registered owner did not know that the vehicle was to be
used in one or more of the circumstances described in subsection (b); and



 



   (3)   The registered owner was not negligent in allowing the vehicle
to be used in one or more of the circumstances described in subsection (b).



 



   (k)   Detention In Lieu of Forfeiture.



 



   (1)   Notwithstanding that a vehicle seized under this section may
have been used in one or more of the circumstances described in subsection
(b), the court may, in lieu of forfeiture, order that the vehicle be detained
for a period of not less than thirty (30) days and not more than
one-hundred-twenty (120) days, if the court finds by a preponderance of the
evidence that:



 



   (A)   The vehicle is the only vehicle available to members of the
registered owner's household; and



 



   (B)   Forfeiture of the vehicle would cause significant hardship to
a household member who relies upon the vehicle for transportation for
legitimate purposes; and



 



   (C)   If released to the registered owner, the vehicle is unlikely
to be used in further violation of this section in the future.



 



   (2)   If the court orders the vehicle detained pursuant to this
subsection, the registered owner may reclaim the vehicle upon expiration of
the detention period and payment of tow, storage and release charges.



 



   (l)   Stolen Vehicles.  A vehicle that has been reported stolen
prior to its seizure under this section shall not be subject to forfeiture
under this section, unless the identity of the registered owner cannot be
reasonably ascertained, or the registered owner fails to redeem the vehicle
within sixty (60) days of the seizure.  The registered owner of the vehicle
may claim the vehicle, upon payment of tow, storage and release charges,
provided the vehicle is not subject to any holds for traffic or parking
violations and the vehicle registration is current.



 



   (m)   Uncontested Forfeiture of Vehicle.



 



   (1)   Where forfeiture pursuant to this section is not contested,
the City Attorney shall have the authority to declare the vehicle forfeited
under this section.



 



   (2)   If no Claims are timely filed, the City Attorney shall prepare
a written Declaration of Forfeiture of the vehicle to the City.  A written
Declaration of Forfeiture signed by the City Attorney or his duly authorized
designee shall be deemed to vest good and sufficient title to the forfeited
vehicle in the City.  The proceeds from the disposal of the vehicle declared
forfeited by the City Attorney shall be distributed in accordance with
subsection (n)(1).  The City Attorney shall mail or otherwise provide a copy
of the Declaration of Forfeiture to any person who received notice of the
forfeiture proceedings pursuant to this section.



 



   (n)   Disposal of Vehicle and Distribution of Proceeds.



 



   (1)   In any case in which a vehicle seized pursuant to this section
is forfeited to the City, the vehicle shall be sold, unless a settlement is
reached with the registered owner of the vehicle.  All proceeds from the
sale, or if cash is paid as settlement in lieu of forfeiture of the vehicle,
shall be distributed and appropriated in the order of priority listed below:



 



   (A)   To pay costs associated with the towing, storage and release
of the vehicle; and then



 



   (B)   To pay costs associated with the sale of the vehicle; and then



 



   (C)   To the legal owner of the vehicle, if any, up to the amount of
the legal owner's interest in the vehicle; and then



 



   (D)   To the City's general fund.



 



   (2)   In a contested forfeiture proceeding pursuant to subsection
(i), the court may make a different distribution of the proceeds in the
interest of justice, including a distribution to a person or entity other
than a registered or legal owner of the vehicle who can prove by clear and
convincing evidence an interest in the vehicle, up to the amount of that
person's provable interest, but only if such person or entity has provided
the court with proof of his, her, or its claimed interest before the court
makes a final disposition regarding the vehicle.



 



   (3)   For budgeting purposes, funds attributable to this ordinance
shall not be considered anticipated revenue to the general fund.



 



   (o)   Recovery of Monetary Loss.  Nothing in this section shall
preclude a vehicle owner or lienholder who suffers a monetary loss from the
forfeiture of a vehicle under this section from recovering the amount of the
actual monetary loss from the person or persons who committed the act giving
rise to the forfeiture.



 



 



SEC. 41.72.  COUNTERFEIT GOODS NUISANCE ABATEMENT LAW.



   (Added by Ord. No. 180,724, Eff. 7/16/09.)



 



   (A)   Definitions.  As used in this section:



 



   1.   "City" means the City of Los Angeles.



 



   2.   "Property" means any real property located in the City of Los
Angeles, including all buildings, structures and other improvements thereon.



 



   (B)   Nuisance.



 



   1.   Definition of Nuisance.  A Property used for the purpose of
knowingly manufacturing, selling, or possessing for sale any of the following
is a public nuisance which may be restrained, enjoined, abated, and prevented
pursuant to the provisions of this Section.



 



   (a)   Any counterfeit of a mark, or goods containing any counterfeit
of a mark, registered with the California Secretary of State or registered on
the Principal Register of the United States Patent and Trademark office; or



 



   (b)    Any recording or audiovisual work where the cover, box,
jacket, or label fails to accurately disclose the information regarding the
manufacturer and the author, artist, performer, producer, programmer, or
group, as proscribed by California Penal Code section 653w.



 



   2.   Maintaining Nuisance.  No person shall knowingly conduct,
permit or maintain the nuisance defined in Subsection B.1. of this Section on
any Property.  Each day such nuisance continues to exist shall be a new and
separate offense.



 



   3.   Action to Abate Nuisance.  The City Attorney may bring and
maintain a civil action in the name of the City of Los Angeles in the
superior court to abate and prevent a public nuisance as defined in
Subsection B.1. of this Section and to restrain and enjoin the person or
persons conducting, maintaining or permitting the public nuisance from
further conducting, maintaining, or permitting such public nuisance.



 



   4.   Notice of Nuisance. If the Property owner is not the person
conducting, maintaining or permitting the nuisance, at least 30 days before
an action is filed against a Property owner, the Property owner shall be
notified that the Property is being used in violation of subsection B.1. 
This requirement is satisfied if the City Attorney sends a notice by
certified or registered mail with return receipt requested to the Property
owner.



 



   5.   In Rem Jurisdiction.  The City Attorney may name as a
defendant, in any action brought under this Section, the Property where the
public nuisance is being conducted, or maintained or permitted, by describing
it by the assessor's parcel number and street address.  The City Attorney
shall cause a summons to be affixed to the principal door or entrance of the
Property, or other visible, conspicuous place thereon, and thereafter mails
the summons by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, to the
owner of the Property as reflected on public records on file with the Los
Angeles County Recorder.



 



   (C)   Pre-Judgment Remedies.



 



   1.   Temporary Restraining Order or Injunction.  If the existence
of the nuisance in the action is shown to the satisfaction of the court,
either by verified complaint or affidavit, the court may allow a temporary
restraining order or injunction to abate and prevent the continuance or
recurrence of the nuisance.



 



   2.   Closure.



 



   (a)   The City Attorney may seek a temporary restraining order or
preliminary injunction to close all or part of the Property pending trial
when a prior order or injunction has not resulted in abatement of the
nuisance.  The duration of the order shall be in the court's discretion but
in no event shall the closure exceed one year.  The City Attorney may seek
an order further directing that the property owner or person in control of
the Property is to padlock the Property and provide the keys to the Los
Angeles Police Department or the Department of Building and Safety upon a
request by that department.



 



   (b)   The City Attorney may seek a pre-judgment closure order
directing that if the Property is not closed as ordered by the court, the
Department of Building and Safety may close it and board and secure it.  The
order further may direct the Police Department and the victim of the activity
referenced in B.1.(a) or (b) or its agent, to enter the property in order to
prepare a report regarding personal property situated at the Property.  The
report may consist of photographs of the personal Property.



 



   (c)   The City Attorney shall send the pre-judgment closure order to
the Property owner and the person in control of the Property.  If the
Property owner or the person in control of the Property fails to comply, the
Department of Building and Safety may, when requested by the Los Angeles
Police Department, barricade, padlock, fence or secure the Property by
whatever means necessary to secure compliance.



 



   (d)   When the Department of Building and Safety closes a Property
pursuant to this section, the Department shall post a warning placard or sign
in a conspicuous place near the entrance.  A warning placard or sign posted
pursuant to this section shall not be removed, defaced, covered or hidden
from view in any manner.  The placard or sign shall read substantially as
follows:



 




PROPERTY VACATED BY COURT ORDER
DO NOT ENTER











IT IS A MISDEMEANOR TO ENTER, TO REMAIN, TO OCCUPY OR BE PRESENT UNLAWFULLY
IN OR ON THIS PROPERTY.
IT IS A MISDEMEANOR TO REMOVE, DEFACE, COVER OR HIDE THIS PLACARD.




 



   3.   Defendant's Remedies.



 



   (a)   If the Property owner files a bond in an amount equal to the
full assessed value of the Property ordered to be closed and submits proof to
the court that the nuisance has been abated and will not be created,
maintained, or permitted for such period of time as the Property has been
directed to be closed, the court may vacate the pre-judgment closure order. 
Proof that the nuisance will not be created, maintained, or permitted in the
future, shall include, but not be limited to, a written statement setting
forth the proactive steps the owner will take to ensure that no such nuisance
shall recur on the Property.  The provisions of Section 995.010 et seq. of
the Code of Civil Procedure shall apply to any bond posted under this
subsection.



 



   (b)   The City Attorney shall request that any order vacating a
pre-judgment closure order include a provision authorizing the Police
Department to periodically and without notice, inspect the Property that is
the subject of an action pursuant to this section during the pendency of the
action, for the purpose of ascertaining whether or not the public nuisance
has recurred on the Property.



 



   (D)   Judgment.



 



   1.   Permanent Injunction.  If the existence of the nuisance in the
action is established to the satisfaction of the court, the court may enter a
judgment which includes a permanent injunction enjoining the nuisance.



 



   2.   Closure.



 



   (a)   The City Attorney may seek a permanent injunction that
includes closure of all or part of the Property.  The duration of the order
shall be in the court's discretion but in no event shall the closure aspect
of the order exceed one year.  The order may further direct that the
Property owner or person in control of the Property is to padlock the
Property and provide the keys to the Police Department or the Department of
Building and Safety upon a request by that department.



 



   (b)   The closure order may direct that if the Property is not
closed as ordered by the court, the Department of Building and Safety may
close it and board and secure it.  The order may further direct the Police
Department to enter the Property in order to prepare a report regarding
personal property situated at the Property.  The report may consist of
photographs of the personal property.



 



   (c)   The City Attorney shall send the closure order to the Property
owner and the person in control of the Property.  If the Property owner or
the person in control of the Property fails to comply, the Department of
Building and Safety may, when requested by the Los Angeles Police Department,
barricade, padlock, fence or secure the Property by whatever means necessary
to secure compliance.



 



   (d)   When the Department of Building and Safety closes a Property
pursuant to this section, the Department shall post a warning placard or sign
in a conspicuous place near the entrance.  A warning placard or sign posted
pursuant to this section shall not be removed, defaced, covered or hidden
from view in any manner.  The placard or sign shall read substantially as
follows:



 




PROPERTY VACATED BY COURT ORDER
DO NOT ENTER











IT IS A MISDEMEANOR TO ENTER, TO REMAIN, TO OCCUPY OR BE PRESENT UNLAWFULLY
IN OR ON THIS PROPERTY.
IT IS A MISDEMEANOR TO REMOVE, DEFACE, COVER OR HIDE THIS PLACARD.




 



   3.   Defendant's Remedies.



 



   (a)   If the owner files a bond in the amount equal to the full
assessed value of the property ordered to be closed and submits proof to the
court that the nuisance has been abated and will not be created, maintained,
or permitted for such period of time as the Property has been directed to be
closed, the court may vacate the closure order.  Proof that the nuisance
will not be created, maintained, or permitted in the future, shall include,
but not be limited to, a written statement setting forth the proactive steps
the owner will take to ensure that no such nuisance shall recur on the
Property.  The provisions of Section 995.010 et seq. of the Code of Civil
Procedure shall apply to any bond posted under this subsection.



 



   (b)   The City Attorney may seek an order that includes a provision
authorizing the Police Department to periodically and without notice, inspect
the Property that is the subject of an action pursuant to this section, for
the purpose of ascertaining whether or not the public nuisance has recurred
on the Property.



 



   4.   Sale of Chattels.  The City Attorney may seek an order of
abatement directing the seizure and removal from the Property of all fixtures
and moveable property used in the creation and/or maintenance of the public
nuisance and directing the sale by the sheriff of such personal property in
the manner provided for the sale of chattels under execution.  For removing
and selling the fixtures and moveable property, the sheriff's office shall be
entitled to charge and receive the same fees as he or she would for levying
upon and selling like property upon execution.  The net proceeds of any such
sale, after the sheriff's expenses have been paid, shall be used to first
defray all the lawful expenses incurred by the City, including, but not
limited to, fees and costs of the removal and sale, allowances and costs of
keeping the Property closed, and costs of the City's action.  The balance,
if any, shall be paid to the owner of the chattels.



 



   5.   Civil Penalty.  If a defendant has conducted, maintained or
permitted a public nuisance as defined in this section, the civil penalty
shall not to exceed $1,000 for each counterfeit of a mark registered with the
California Secretary of State or registered on the Principal Register of the
United States Patent and Trademark office, or for any recording or
audiovisual work where the cover, box, jacket, or label fails to accurately
disclose the information regarding the manufacturer and the author, artist,
performer, producer, programmer, or group, as proscribed by California Penal
Codes section 653w, that is knowingly manufactured, sold, or possessed for
sale on the Property. Upon recovery, such penalties shall be paid to the City
of Los Angeles.



 



   In assessing the amount of the civil penalty under this section, the
court may consider any one or more of the relevant circumstances presented by
any of the parties to the action, including, but not limited to, the
following: the nature and seriousness of the misconduct, the number of
violations, the persistence of the misconduct, the length of time over which
the misconduct occurred, and the defendant's assets, liabilities, and net
worth.



 



   (E)   Costs of Abatement.  In any action to abate a nuisance
pursuant to this Section, the owner of the Property upon which the nuisance
is found to exist shall be liable for all costs of abatement incurred by the
City, including but not limited to, administrative costs and all costs
incurred in the physical abatement of the nuisance.  In addition to the
penalties herein provided, upon entry of a second or subsequent judgment
pursuant to this section that issues within a two-year period, the court may
order the owner to pay treble the costs of abatement.



 



   (F)   Violations.



 



   1.   Violation of Order or Injunction.  A violation or disobedience
of any provision of an order or injunction issued pursuant to this section is
a misdemeanor.



 



   2.   Failure to Comply with Closure Order.  A Property owner or
person in control of the Property who fails to comply with any pre-judgment
closure order or closure order shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.



 



   3.   Defacement or Removal of Placard or Sign.  Any person who
defaces, covers, hides, or removes any placard or sign posted pursuant to
subsection C.2.(d) or D.2.(d) of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.



 



   4.   Entry Onto or Occupation of Closed Property.  Any person who
enters, remains, occupies or is present in a Property that has been posted
pursuant to subsection C.2.(d) or D.2.(d) of this section shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor.  This prohibition shall not apply to public officers or
public employees acting in the performance of their official duties. 
Notwithstanding any other provision of the Los Angeles Municipal Code to the
contrary, a police officer with the Los Angeles Police Department shall have
the authority to enter any building posted by the Department pursuant to this
division, and arrest anyone entering the posted Property without
authorization.



 



   (G)   Nonexclusive Remedies.  The remedies provided in this section
are cumulative and non-exclusive and they shall not exclude the City's use of
any other remedy provided by law for the protection of the health, safety and
welfare of the people of the City of Los Angeles.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 2
SOLICITING – SALES



 




(Title Amended by Ord. No. 145,691, Eff. 5/2/74.)




 



 



Section



42.00   Regulation of Soliciting and Sales in Streets.



42.00.1   Sales from Ice Cream Trucks.



42.01   Street – Sidewalk – Pedestrians  Building Setback.



42.02   Street – Sidewalk – Adjacent Property – Soliciting Trade.



42.03   Selling of Tickets of Admission to Places of Public Assemblage in
Public Places and Places Open to the Public Prohibited – Exceptions.



42.04   Street – Sidewalk – Soliciting Patronage.



42.05   Street – Sidewalk – Soliciting Patronage Transportation.



42.06   Railroad – Stage Depot – Soliciting Patronage.



42.07   Common Carrier – Soliciting Patronage on.



42.08   Street – Sidewalk – Soliciting Patronage Prohibited in Area.



42.09   Soliciting Patronage – Manner of.



42.10   Solicitors of Patronage – Interference With.



42.11   Hotel – Loitering.



42.11.1   Depots – Stations – Airports – Loitering about Prohibited.



42.12   Alms – Soliciting in Buildings.



42.13   Sidewalk and Park Vending Program.



42.14   Soliciting – Use of City Name.



42.14.1   Soliciting on City Property.



42.15   Vending and Excessive Noise on Beaches Prohibited.



42.19   Magazine Subscriptions – Sales for Future Delivery – Where
Solicitation Prohibited.



42.20   Food and Drink Establishments – Annoyance of Customers Forbidden.



 



 



SEC. 42.00.  REGULATION OF SOLICITING AND SALES IN STREETS.



 



   (a)   In this section, unless the context or subject matter
otherwise requires:  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,813, Eff. 12/10/13.)



 



   "Business" shall mean any enterprise, profession or trade conducted or
engaged in with the object of gain, benefit or advantage, whether direct or
indirect, to any person.  The term shall include operations of subsidiary or
independent entities conducted for the benefit of others whether or not at
any profit to themselves, nonprofit businesses and trade associations.



 



   "Donation" shall mean a gift; a voluntary act which is not required and
does not require anything in return.



 



   "Food" shall mean any type of edible substance or beverage.



 



   "Goods or Merchandise" shall mean any items that are not Food.



 



   "Handcrafts" shall mean objects made either by hand or with the help of
devices used to shape or produce the objects through such methods as weaving,
carving, stitching, sewing, lacing, and beading, including objects such as
jewelry, pottery, silver work, leather goods and trinkets.  Most handcrafts
have more than nominal utility apart from any communicative value they
possess.  Most commonly, handcrafts do not communicate a message, idea or
concept to others, and are often mass produced or produced with limited
variation.  Handcrafts do not include visual arts.



 



   "News racks" shall mean any self-service or coin-operated box,
container, storage unit or other dispenser installed, used, or maintained for
the display and sale of newspapers, news periodicals or other news
publications.



 



   "Newsstand" shall mean any stand, shelter, case, cabinet, box or other
structure installed, used, or maintained for the display, sale or storage of
newspapers, news periodicals or other news publications which is attended by
the owner or his employee while making sales therefrom.



 



   "Parkway" shall mean that area between the edge of the roadway and the
adjacent property line excluding that area occupied by the sidewalks. 
Parkway shall also include any area within a roadway which is not open to
vehicular travel.



 



   "Perform, Performing, Performance or Performances" shall mean to engage
in any of the following activities in the street:  playing musical
instruments; singing; dancing; acting; pantomiming; puppeteering; juggling;
reciting; engaging in magic; creating visual art in its entirety; presenting
or enacting a play, work of music, work of art, physical or mental feat, or
other constitutionally protected entertainment or form of expression.  The
terms Perform, Performing, Performance or Performances shall not include:



 



   (i)   The provision of personal services such as massage or hair
weaving, cutting or styling;



 



   (ii)   The completion or other partial creation of visual art;



 



   (iii)   The creation of visual art which is mass produced or
produced with limited variation; or



 



   (iv)   The creation of handcrafts.



 



   "Performer" shall mean a person who performs.  Performer includes the
employers, employees and agents of a performer.  Indicia of being a
performer include, but are not limited to, setting up performance equipment,
staging or orienting the performance towards the public, performing in the
same location for an extended period of time, performing in public over
multiple days, seeking voluntary contributions through the passing around of
a hat or leaving open an instrument case or other receptacle, and soliciting
donations after a performance.



 



   "Person or Persons" shall mean one or more natural persons,
individuals, groups, businesses, business trusts, companies, corporations,
joint ventures, joint stock companies, partnership, entities, associations,
clubs or organizations composed of two or more individuals (or manager,
lessee, agent, servant, officer or employee of any of them), whether engaged
in business, nonprofit or any other activity.



 



   "Roadway" shall mean that portion of a street improved, designed, or
ordinarily used for vehicular travel.



 



   "Sidewalk" shall mean any surface in the public right-of-way provided
for the exclusive use of pedestrians.



 



   "Street" shall mean all that area dedicated to public use for public
street purposes and shall include, but not be limited to, roadways, parkways,
alleys and sidewalks.



 



   "Ticket" shall mean a ticket, license, voucher, coupon or any other
indicia of a transaction granting admission or permission to enter or access
an activity, an event, a tour or a place of business.



 



   "Vend or Vending" shall mean to sell or barter food, goods, merchandise
or services, or to require someone to pay a fee or to set, negotiate, or
establish a fee before providing food, goods, merchandise or services, even
if characterized by the vendor as a donation.



 



   "Vendor" shall mean a person who vends.  Vendor includes the
employers, employees, and agents of a vendor.



 



   (b)   First Amendment Protected Vending.  Sections 42.13 A. through
42.13 C. and E. of this Code do not apply to First Amendment protected
vending as set forth below:  (Amended by Ord. No. 185,900, Eff. 12/6/18.)



 



   (1)   Persons can engage in traditional expressive speech and
petitioning activities, and can Vend the following expressive items: 
newspapers, leaflets, pamphlets, bumper stickers, patches and/or buttons.



 



   (2)   Persons can Vend the following items, which have been created,
written or composed by the Vendor:  books, audio, video or other recordings
of their Performances, paintings, photographs, prints, sculptures or any
other item that is inherently communicative and is of nominal value or
utility apart from its communication.  Although an item may have some
expressive purpose, it will be deemed to have more than nominal utility apart
from its communication if it has a common and dominant non-expressive
purpose.  Examples of items that have more than nominal utility apart from
their communication and thus are subject to the Vending ban under the
provision of this section include, but are not limited to, the following: 
housewares, appliances, articles of clothing, sunglasses, auto parts, oils,
incense, perfume, crystals, lotions, candles, jewelry, toys, and stuffed
animals.



 



   (3)   Performers can Perform.



 



   (4)   Any Vendor conducting lawful Vending under Subsections (b)(1)
and (b)(2), above, must comply with applicable tax and licensing requirements.



 



   (5)   Penalty.  Any violation of this Subsection (b) shall be
punishable pursuant to Section 42.13 D. of this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No.
185,900, Eff. 12/6/18.)



 



   (c)   Street Sales of Tickets in Conjunction with Operation of a
Business Prohibited.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,813, Eff. 12/10/13.)  Except
as otherwise allowed by law, no Person upon any Street shall sell, exchange
or provide Tickets in connection with the operation of a Business.



 



   (d)   Reserved.  (Deleted by Ord. No. 182,813, Eff. 12/10/13.)



 



   (e)   Streets News Venders.  (Amended by Ord. No. 145,691, Eff.
5/2/74.)



 



   (1)   No person shall sell or offer for sale any newspaper,
magazine, periodical, news publication or other printed matter while upon the
roadway of any street within the City of Los Angeles provided, however, that
persons engaged in selling or offering for sale or disposing of newspapers,
news periodicals or other news publications may sell, offer for sale, solicit
the purchase of and advertise the same upon any portion of the sidewalk or
parkway, subject to Subsections (f), (g), (h) and (j) of this section where
applicable.



 



   (2)   No person, under the age of 10 years, shall sell or offer for
sale any newspaper, magazine, periodical, news publication or other printed
matter while upon any portion of a street. This subsection shall not prohibit
persons, except as otherwise prohibited by law, from soliciting the sale of
or delivery of newspapers, magazines, periodicals, news publications and
other printed matter to residences or places of business fronting upon a
street.



 



   (f)   Streets – News Racks.  (Amended by Ord. No. 176,339, Eff.
1/19/05.)



 



   (1)   Definitions:  The following words, terms and phrases, when
used in the following subsections shall have the meaning ascribed to them in
this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different
meaning:



 



   (A)   "Equivalent newsrack" means any newsrack that is of the same
size and dimensions of the specified newsrack.



 



   (B)   If "demand warrants" or "warranted demand" means the measured
stack height needed to meet the newspaper publisher's or distributor's peak
daily distribution at the requested newsrack location, as proven to the Board
by the newspaper publisher or distributor, exceeds (14) inches.



 



   (C)   "Individual newsrack" means and includes a newsrack designed
with a single enclosed compartment to accommodate at any one time the
display, sale, or free distribution of like copies of a single newspaper or
other publication, or which has more than one (1) compartment and complies
with the dimensions of an individual newsrack as provided in Subsection
(7)(B).



 



   (D)   "Newsrack" or "News Rack" means any unstaffed, self-service,
free, or coin-operated box, container, storage unit or other dispenser
located in or upon, or projecting onto, or over, any part of the public
right-of-way, and which is installed, used or maintained for the display,
sale, or free distribution of newspapers and other publications.



 



   (E)   "Modular newsrack" means a newsrack which is designed with
separate enclosed compartments to accommodate at any one time the display,
sale or free distribution of multiple distinct and separate newspapers or
other publications, and which exceeds the dimensions of an individual
newsrack as provided in Subsection (7)(B).



 



   (F)   "Modular newsrack provider" means the person or other legal
entity that is authorized under Subsection (4)(A)(7) to place and maintain
modular newsracks upon the public right-of-way.



 



   (G)   "Publisher" means the person or other legal entity selling,
displaying, or distributing free newspapers or other publications in a
newsrack.



 



   (H)   "News-Stand/Kiosk" means any stand, shelter, or other
structure installed, used, or maintained for the display, sale or storage of
newspapers, news periodicals or other news publications.



 



   (I)   "Public right-of-way" means any public street, sidewalk,
parkway, alley or other location owned or otherwise controlled by the City
for the benefit of the general public.



 



   (J)   "Block face" means the sidewalk on one side of a street,
between one intersection and the immediately adjacent intersection.



 



   (2)   Purpose and Criteria:  The purpose of the following
Subsections is to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare of
the citizens and visitors to the City through the regulation of placement,
type, appearance, and maintenance of newsracks on public rights-of-way so as
to:



 



   (A)   Provide for pedestrian and driver safety and convenience.



 



   (B)   Restrict unreasonable interference with the flow of pedestrian
or vehicular traffic, including, but not limited to, ingress into and egress
from any residence or place of business, or from the street to the sidewalk,
or from the sidewalk to the street by persons exiting or entering parked or
standing vehicles.



 



   (C)   Provide for the safety of the general public and property
during emergency conditions.



 



   (D)   Provide reasonable access for the use and maintenance of
poles, posts, traffic signs and/or signals, hydrants, mailboxes, and access
to locations used for public transportation purposes.



 



   (E)   Allow for the placement and maintenance of modular newsracks
in the modular newsrack areas, as determined by the City Council, to be
placed in locations throughout the city which afford easy, convenient service
to pedestrians, but do not obstruct or interfere with access to abutting
properties, and which do not impede or endanger pedestrian, bicycle, or
vehicular traffic.



 



   (F)   Relocate and/or replace or remove newsracks which result in
visual blight and/or are not installed according to this code on the public
rights-of-way or which block or interfere with the aesthetics of store window
displays, adjacent businesses, landscaping, street furniture, public or
private, and other improvements as well as to allow the removal of abandoned
newsracks.



 



   (G)   Maintain and protect the values of surrounding properties, and
ensure that the aesthetics and historical attributes of adjacent businesses
are not compromised by the unregulated placement of newsracks in the public
right-of-way.



 



   (H)   Reduce unnecessary exposure of the public to personal injury
or property damage.



 



   (I)   Maintain and preserve freedom of the press to distribute
periodicals and newspapers.



 



   (J)   Reduce visual blight and improve the aesthetic appearance of
the City's streets and sidewalks for the merchants, citizens and visitors to
the City by coordinating the uniform color of all newsracks with the color of
the City's extensive multi-million dollar street furniture program; and in
Specific Plan Areas, Streetscape Plan Areas or other Special Planning
Districts, which have a standard streetscape color, to allow for a uniform
newsrack color from a limited palate of colors in order to coordinate the
color of newsracks with their streetscape.



 



   (3)   Compliance Phase In:



 



   (A)   The provisions of this subdivision shall apply to all
newsracks, whether installed and maintained prior to or after the effective
date of this ordinance which in whole or in part rests upon, in, or over any
dedicated sidewalk, right-of-way or parkway.  Those newsracks installed
prior to the effective date of this revised ordinance shall be brought into
compliance with the all provisions of this code, except uniform color, as
this revised ordinance is implemented by Street Services, area by area,
within the City.  In no event shall compliance be later than 12 months after
the effective date hereof, except that, if the City's implementation schedule
takes longer than 12 months, then compliance by the publishers shall follow
the City's implementation schedule.  If a publisher chooses not to come into
compliance with the uniform color requirement of this ordinance at the time
it obtains a valid permit and legally places its newsracks as required by the
City's implementation schedule, then compliance with the uniform color
requirement must be accomplished no later than 24 months after the effective
date of this ordinance.  However, Publishers experiencing financial
hardship, solely due to compliance with LAMC § 42.00 (f) as it applies to
uniform color, may request the Board to approve one 12-month extension
allowing them a total of 36 months to come into full compliance with the
uniform color requirement of the Newsrack Ordinance, if evidence of financial
hardship is proven to the satisfaction of the Board.  Any newsrack not
brought into compliance within the aforementioned time period shall be deemed
to be in violation of LAMC § 42.00 (f).



 



   (4)   Permit Required:  No person shall install or maintain any
newsrack upon any public right-of-way without first applying for and
receiving a permit from the City's Board of Public Works, herein after
referred to as "Board".  A permit will not be issued unless the application
is completed in full, the requested installation meets all the appropriate
placement criteria as set forth below, and the application is accompanied by
the appropriate permit fee for the type of newsrack, single, pedestal, or
modular, for each individual newsrack installation requested.  Any permit
granted pursuant to the provisions of this code shall only be valid as to the
specific location specified in the permit application.  Where application is
made for the installation of two or more single newsracks, a separate permit
shall be required for each individual newsrack.  Upon this revised ordinance
taking legal effect in the City of Los Angeles, any owner of a newsrack
currently existing on any City right-of-way must apply for a permit pursuant
to this ordinance within the time specified by the Board of Public Works in
its Rules and Regulations for the implementation of this ordinance.  Any
newsrack which is not the subject of a valid permit application as required
by the City's implementation Rules and Regulations will be deemed to be in
violation of 42.00 (f) of this code and subject to removal from the
right-of-way as set forth herein.



 



   (A)   Permit Application.  Permit applications shall be in writing
and on forms as provided by the Board.  The permit application shall include
the following information:



 



   (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the applicant who
is the owner and/or principal responsible for the newsrack.



 



   (2)   The name, address, and telephone number of a responsible
person whom the City may notify or contact at any time concerning the
applicant's newsrack(s).



 



   (3)   The specified number of newsracks and the detailed proposed
location for each one, shown on a drawing of the location, or GIS/Address
based program provided by applicant which is compatible with the City's GIS
program and which indicates all existing buildings, existing newsracks at the
location and general vicinity, and all other possible obstructions within 20
feet of the proposed location of the newsrack.



 



   (4)   Names of newspaper(s) or periodical(s) to be placed in each
newsrack.  One or more newspapers or periodicals may be dispensed from a
single newsrack if the newsrack is manufactured for this purpose.



 



   (5)   Type or brand of newsrack, including an illustration and
description of the newsrack and mount, if other than a single pedestal, size
of base plate and whether the newsrack will have a coin-box attachment, or
equivalent.



 



   (6)   A sworn statement under penalty of perjury, executed by an
officer, director, or authorized agent of the applicant, agreeing that the
applicant shall not sell, assign, or transfer by any method, the permit for
the newsrack location to any other publisher, distributor, entity or
individual.



 



   (7)   The Board, with Council approval, may designate areas of the
City where only modular newsracks may be installed and maintained by a City
vendor such as the City Hall Historical District, (the east block face on
Spring Street between Temple Street and 1st Street, the south block face of
Temple Street between Spring Street and Main Street, the west block face of
Main Street between Temple Street and 1st Street, and the north block face of
1st Street between Spring Street and Main Street).  No application for an
individual newsrack permit may be submitted in a modular newsrack area. Upon
the effective date of this ordinance, the total number of compartments in
modular newsracks in any designated modular newsrack area, shall be
substantially equivalent to the highest total number of individual newsracks
known to have been legally maintained on the public right-of-way in the
modular newsrack areas at any one time during the year preceding the
introduction of this amended ordinance but in no event more than the total
number of newsracks allowed by subparagraph (F)(4) below.



 



   (8)   Such other information as, from time to time, may be required
by the Board.



 



   (B)   Expiration - Renewal.  Unless earlier revoked, newsrack
permits issued pursuant to the provisions of this code shall expire on the
30th day of August following the date upon which each such permit is
granted.  Such permits may thereafter be renewed annually upon the payment
of the fee hereinafter prescribed.  Applications for renewal shall be made
at least 30 days prior to the expiration of any permit issued, and must be
accompanied by a permit renewal fee as set forth in Subsection (4)(C),
below.  Application for permit renewal and payment must be either presented
in person to the Bureau of Street Services, via the Internet (if available),
or mailed via certified mail, postmarked no later than 30 days prior to the
date of permit expiration.  Failure to renew an existing newsrack permit
before its expiration will require the payment of a late renewal penalty as
set forth in Subsection (4)(C), below, or the loss of the placement of the
said rack at the subject location.



 



   (C)   Fees.  The Board shall establish all fees, in accordance with
the level of enforcement deemed appropriate by the Council, and shall only be
used to defray the total expenses of operation of the newsrack program
including: permitting, inspection, administration, and enforcement, required
by this Ordinance as set forth in the preceding and following sections of
this code.  The Initial Permit Fee, the Renewal Permit Fee, the Site
Inspection Fee, the Site Re-Inspection Fee, Late Renewal Penalty Fee, Impound
Fees, and the Bar Code Decal Replacement Fee shall be determined and adopted
from time to time by the Board.



 



   (D)   Insurance.



 



   (1)   Requirement-Content.  As a condition of the City granting any
person or persons one or more permits to maintain a newsrack or newsracks in
the public right-of-way, any such permittee shall be required to maintain a
policy of general liability insurance, naming the City of Los Angeles, the
Board of Public Works and its employees, agents etc. as "Additional Insureds"
for the specific purpose of indemnifying and holding harmless the City of Los
Angeles, its officers, boards, employees, etc. from and against any and all
losses, costs, damages, expenses, or liability, whatsoever, which may result
from or arise out of the granting of a permit, and/or the installation and/or
the maintenance of any newsrack or newsracks for which the permittee shall be
responsible for paying any and all losses or damages that may be sustained by
any person or persons as a result of, or which may be caused by or arise out
of the installation and/or maintenance of the permitted newsrack or
newsracks.  The policy of insurance shall be maintained in its original
amount by the permittee at permittee's expense at all times during the period
for which the permittee holds a valid permit or permits.  Should said policy
be called upon to satisfy any liability for damages covered by said policy,
the policy must be of such a nature that the original amount of coverage is
restored after any payment of damages by the policy.  In the event that two
or more permits are issued to one permittee, the permittee shall only be
required to maintain a single policy of insurance covering all such permits
held by the permittee in the amount set forth below for the number of
newsracks maintained by the permittee.



 



   (2)   Required Limits of Liability Insurance.  The Board shall be
responsible, from time to time, for adopting the limits of liability
insurance required to be maintained by newsrack permittees under this code. 
The Board shall receive a recommendation from the City's Risk Manager prior
to setting the limits of liability insurance based on the number of racks
that each permittee maintains in the City's right-of-way.



 



   (E)   Every person who installs, uses or maintains any newsrack
which in whole or in part rests upon, in, or over any dedicated sidewalk or
parkway shall have his or her name, address and telephone number affixed
thereto at a place where such information may be easily seen, in addition to
a bar code decal issued by the Board for that specific newsrack.



 



   (5)   Prohibited Where Vehicles Permitted:  No person shall install
or maintain any newsrack which projects onto, into or over any part of the
roadway of any public street, or which rests, wholly or in part, upon, along
or over any portion of such roadway.



 



   (6)   Unlawful Obstructions:  No person shall install, use or
maintain any newsrack:



 



   (A)   Within 5 feet of any marked crosswalk;



 



   (B)   Within 5 feet of the curb return of any unmarked crosswalk;



 



   (C)   Within 5 feet of any fire hydrant, fire call box or other
emergency facility;



 



   (D)   Within 5 feet ahead and 45 feet to the rear of any sign
marking a designated bus stop.  No newsrack shall be installed within the
marked bus zone;



 



   (E)   Within 5 feet of any bus bench.



 



   (F)   Within 10 feet of any transit shelter.



 



   (G)   In front of an entrance to a business, including the curb area
directly across from such entrance where the distance between the entry door
and the newsrack is less than 10 feet;



 



   (H)   In any location used, marked or posted for public utility
purpose, public transportation purpose or government use;



 



   (I)   Where placement unreasonably interferes with the use of poles,
posts, traffic signs or signals, mail boxes or other objects legally
permitted, but in no event shall the newsrack be closer than one foot from
such objects;



 



   (J)   Where placement interferes with the reasonable use or utility
for display purposes of any display window of any building abutting the
sidewalk or parkway, but in no event within 4 feet of such window;



 



   (K)   Within 5 feet of any area improved with lawn, flowers shrubs,
trees or street tree well;



 



   (L)   Within 5 feet of any driveway or driveway apron;



 



   (M)   Within 4 feet of any outdoor dining areas or patio dining
areas;



 



   (N)   Within 20 feet of both sides of buildings officially
designated Los Angeles Historical or Cultural Monuments.  If there is a
block in which all buildings have been so officially designated, then the
Board, in consultation with the Cultural Heritage Commission, shall determine
siting on such block face for up to four (4) newsracks.  An owner of a
building which has been designated as a Historical or Cultural Monument may
petition the Board of Public Works to allow newsracks on the sidewalks in
front of their building if the placement of such newsracks will not interfere
with Historic or Cultural nature of the building.  The Board shall listen to
evidence from all interested parties and make its determination based on the
totality of the evidence.



 



   (O)   Within 20 feet of both sides of visual public art work
created, funded or managed through the City's Municipal Art Program
including, but not limited to, murals, sculptures and fountains.



 



   (P)   Where placement impedes the flow of pedestrian traffic by
reducing the clear space to less than 6 feet or, impedes access to or the use
of abutting property, including, but not limited to, residences and places of
business.



 



   (Q)   Notwithstanding any other paragraph of this subdivision, no
person shall install, use or maintain any newsrack where placement endangers
the safety of persons or property.



 



   (R)   No newsrack shall be installed within 4 feet from any
permanently installed structure in the public Right-of-Way, which is not
otherwise specifically identified in this subdivision.



 



   (S)   Within one foot of any utility cover, vent screen or other
object that is flush mounted with the sidewalk, except that if the owner or
person in control of the below grade sidewalk installation needs additional
space for emergency or non-routine maintenance of the installation, any
newsrack(s) which interferes with such maintenance may be requested to be
temporarily removed to accommodate the required maintenance and then be
reinstalled.



 



   (T)   Within 4 feet to the front and 10 feet to the rear of any
parking meter and where there are no parking meters on the curb, 10 feet from
the front of any marked parallel parking place.



 



   (7)   Size, Appearance, Placement, Installation and Construction of
Newsracks:



 



   (A)    Every newsrack shall be maintained in a neat and clean
condition and be in good repair at all times.



 



   (B)   All newsracks shall be permanently mounted, except as provided
in Subsection (7)(C), in accordance with specifications established by the
Board as provided in Subsection (9) and adopted from time to time as
revisions become necessary, including but not limited to: style,
construction, coating, material and fabrication.  Specifications for a
newsrack shall be:



 



   (1)   Street tube pedestal, at least four inches by three inches in
height;



 



   (2)   Overall height shall not be less than 46 inches and shall not
exceed 52 inches; the overall width shall not be less than 20 inches and
shall not exceed 30 inches; and the overall depth shall not be less than 12
inches and shall not exceed 20 inches.



 



   (3)   All newsracks shall be primarily constructed of metal and
shall be "Ivy Green" in color (Tiger RAL 607 SM, Glossy, Code 28-50081),
except as provided in § 42.00 (f)(17) "Specific Plan/Street Scape Plan
Areas".



 



   (C)   Special Purpose Sidewalks; No Permanent Attachments.  Each
individual newsrack which is permitted to be placed on a special purpose
sidewalk, such as terrazzo, brick, glass prism implanted, or where basements
are located under the sidewalk, shall be on legs and shall be mobile and not
affixed to the sidewalk in any way.



 



   (D)   Pedestals.  No pedestals shall be maintained on a public
right-of-way unless there is attached thereto a newsrack case as provided
herein.



 



   (E)   Removal of Newsracks; Repair of Sidewalks.  Upon the removal
of any newsrack, the person so removing shall be responsible for the repair
of any resulting condition, including filling in of any holes left in the
sidewalk and/or the removal of any bolts or other devices used to affix the
newsrack to the sidewalk such that there are no obstructions sticking above
the grade of the sidewalk.  Such work is to be done to the satisfaction of
the Department of Public Works.



 



   (F)   Newsrack Location.



 



   (1)   Newsracks shall only be situated near a curb with the back of
said newsrack situated not less than 18 inches nor more than 24 inches from
the edge of the curb.  If it is physically impossible to situate a newsrack
near a curb, then the Board may authorize the placement of up to four (4)
newsracks adjacent to the wall of a building on that block.  If the newsrack
is placed adjacent to the wall of a building, the back of said newsrack shall
be situated parallel to and not more than 6 inches from such wall.  No
newsrack shall be installed, used or maintained on any sidewalk or parkway
opposite a newsstand or other newsrack.



 



   (2)   Except as otherwise provided by this code, no newsrack placed
on the public right-of-way shall be chained, bolted or otherwise attached to
any property or to any permanently fixed object.



 



   (3)   Not more than four newsracks shall be placed immediately
adjacent to each other.  Any such group of up to four newsracks shall be
separated by a space of not less than 48 inches from any other individual
newsrack or group of newsracks.



 



   (4)   Not more than 16 newsracks shall be placed within 200 ft. of
the same block face.  However, the Board may establish a number greater or
less than 16 in any specific block face by conducting an engineering study. 
In cases where a block face is longer than 200 ft., for every additional 50
ft. of block face greater than 200 ft., an additional four (4) newsracks may
be installed.



 



   (5)   Not more than one permit for installation of a newsrack shall
be issued for each publication on one side of a block or within 200 ft. of
the same block face, whichever is less. One publication includes: differing
geographic editions of the same publication (Orange County edition; Valley
edition, etc.); and daily and Sunday editions of the same publication.  In
cases where a block face is longer than 200 ft., and there is space to
legally install additional newsracks, then a permit for one publication to
install a second newsrack on the same block face may be issued by the Board.



 



   (6)   Newsracks shall not be permitted on the public right-of-way
adjacent to any property that is zoned exclusively for single-family
residential use (R-1).



 



   (G)   Priorities Related to Placement of Newsracks.



 



   (1)   In determining in what order newsrack permittees may select
their location on a particular block face during implementation of this
revised newsrack ordinance, and in particular where there are more requests
for newsrack spaces on any one block face than there are legal spaces
available, the Board of Public Works shall, pursuant to its authority under
paragraph (9) below, develop a content neutral criteria for determining the
placement of newsracks applicable to each block face.



 



   (2)   Once this revised newsrack ordinance has been fully
implemented citywide, all subsequent newsrack permits shall be issued on a
first come first served basis.



 



   (8)   Unlawful Use:  No newsrack shall be used for advertising
signs or publicity purposes. External lettering is restricted to the
following:



 



   (A)   If the newsrack is situated next to the curb, the side
parallel to the curb, next to the lanes of traffic, may have external
lettering replicating the publication masthead style and color, for the
permitted publication in the subject newsrack, in a total area not to exceed
144 square inches.



 



   If an individual newsrack is used to distribute more than one
publication, each publication distributed in that newsrack shall be entitled
to have external lettering replicating the publication masthead style and
color for the permitted publications in the subject newsrack.  However, the
total area for all such publication mastheads on that newsrack shall not
exceed 144 square inches.



 



   (B)   The side of the newsrack facing pedestrian traffic, except in
Specific Plan/Streetscape Plan Areas, as identified in Section (17), may have
a "Rack Card", with a total area not to exceed 238 square inches, which
exclusively advertises the newspaper or periodical being dispensed, and shall
not include any third party advertising.  This "Rack Card" shall be located
in the area immediately below the hood on the front access side of the
newsrack.



 



   (C)   Other than as permitted in this section, no other lettering or
advertising of any kind shall be permitted anywhere else on the newsrack,
including the mount.



 



   (9)   Authority of the Board of Public Works to Promulgate Rules and
Regulations for the Permitting, Installation and Maintenance of the Newsracks
in the Public Right-of-Way:  Consistent with the intent and requirements of
LAMC § 42.00 (f), et seq., the Board may adopt rules and regulations to
administer the installation, placement, maintenance, size and material used
for construction of newsracks.  The Board may adopt any other rule and/or
regulation for the protection of public safety, welfare, or property relative
to permitting, installation, and maintenance of newsracks.  Prior to
adoption of any rules and/or regulations, the Board shall hold a public
hearing.  Once any rules and/or regulations are adopted, they shall be kept
posted in the Board office and a copy thereof shall be furnished to any
applicant for a newsrack permit.



 



   (10)   Noncompliance With LAMC § 42.00 (f), et seq.; Tagging of
Newsracks:  Except as provided in Subsection (12) hereof, whenever any
newsrack is found to be in violation of any Subsection of LAMC § 42.00 (f),
the Board shall cause a notice tag to be attached to said newsrack specifying
the date and nature of the violation, and shall E-mail or fax to the
permittee a copy of the violation.  Permittee shall within ten (10) calendar
days from the date on which the tag was attached, either cause the violation
to be corrected or request a hearing pursuant to Subsection (13) hereof.  If
a hearing is requested, staff will not remove the non compliant newsrack
until a final determination by the Board. However, if a newsrack installed
within the City right-of-way has no visible evidence that it has been
properly permitted (no City issued bar code decal, no visible contact
information for the owner or no other evidence that would indicate that a
valid permit for the newsrack had been issued) staff may confiscate the
offending newsrack and follow the procedures in subparagraph (11)(B) below. 
There is hereby created a presumption that any newsrack within the City's
right-of-way that does not have a city bar code decal, or visible
identification and contact information for the owner of the newsrack, has
been installed without a valid permit.



 



   (A)   A newsrack may be tagged for any violation of any requirement
of LAMC § 42.00 (f) including, but not limited to, the following:



 



   (1)   Where its installation, use or maintenance unreasonably
interferes with or impedes the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic;



 



   (2)   Where its installation, use or maintenance interferes with the
use of poles, posts, traffic signs or signals, hydrants, mailboxes or other
objects legally permitted;



 



   (3)   Where its installation, use or maintenance unreasonably
obstructs, interferes with or impedes access to or the use of abutting
property, including, but not limited to, residences, places of business, or
legally parked or stopped vehicles;



 



   (4)   When such newsrack does not have a name, address and telephone
number affixed in a place where such information may be easily seen and the
designee of such newsrack cannot be otherwise identified;



 



   (5)   When a newsrack is found in the public right-of-way which does
not have a visible, city issued, bar code decal present indicating the
correct permit number of the newsrack or the newsrack has no valid permit at
all; and



 



   (6)   When a newsrack is found in the public right-of-way which is
not maintained in a neat and clean condition and in good repair, in
accordance with the following Maintenance Specifications:



 



   (a)   The newsrack permittee shall maintain all newsracks and the
sidewalk surface immediately under and adjacent (within 2 feet) to the
newsracks in a safe, clean, attractive and sanitary condition and in good
order and repair, as determined by the Department of Public Works, Bureau of
Street Services (BOSS).  The permittee shall make routine inspection and
maintenance calls on each newsrack once a week.  Such inspection and
maintenance calls may be incorporated with delivery of newspapers or other
publications.  The permittee shall make more frequent calls if conditions
warrant.  At each maintenance call, the permittee shall clean, wash and
remove all graffiti, stickers, posters, litter, dust, dirt and weeds at each
newsrack.  The newsrack shall be maintained in a continual good and working
condition.



 



   (b)   Maintenance - Permittee shall respond to a request to secure a
site or to perform maintenance within 24 hours of notification, but in no
event more than 72 hours.  The permittee shall use cleaning methods and
procedures that have been demonstrated and approved and are environmentally
safe, utilizing acceptable industry practices.



 



   (c)   Repair and Replacement - The Permittee shall commence
necessary repairs within one week when any damage or vandalism is found by
BOSS.  If the newsrack damage or vandalism is of an emergency or hazardous
nature, the permittee will repair, replace, remove or secure the site within
24 hours of notification.  If the newsrack is totally destroyed because of
an accident, the Permittee will remove the newsrack and appurtenant
structures within 24 hours, including repair of any damage to the public
right-of- way, returning the site to its former condition prior to the
newsrack installation.



 



   (d)   Graffiti Removal - Permittee will upon notification by BOSS,
or upon inspection, remove graffiti within 24 hours from any newsrack.



 



   (11)   Impounding of Newsracks:



 



   (A)   Notwithstanding the Department's right to tag newsracks in
violation of any Subsection on LAMC § 42.00 (f), the Department may cause
any newsrack to be impounded:



 



   (1)   When the newsrack poses an immediate danger to persons or
vehicles;



 



   (2)   Where its installation, use or maintenance endangers the
safety of persons or property;



 



   (3)   When pursuant to Subsection (10), a tag has been attached to a
newsrack and a written notice, such as fax, letter or E-mail has been sent to
the owner, operator, or responsible person for the newsrack and the designee
has neither caused the violation specified on said tag to be corrected nor
requested a hearing pursuant to Subsection (14), hereof within the time
permitted;



 



   (4)   When a hearing and appeal, if filed, have resulted in a final
determination that the violation(s) specified on the tag attached to such
newsrack has in fact occurred, and the designee has failed to correct such
violation(s) within ten (10) calendar days from the date of said
determination;



 



   (5)   When a request for a hearing or appeal has been withdrawn,
such request shall be deemed withdrawn, either by actual withdrawal or by the
failure of the designee to fully comply with Subsection (14) of this code;



 



   (6)   When such newsrack has been abandoned; and



 



   (7)   When such newsrack has been installed on the City's
right-of-way without first applying for and receiving a permit as required by
this code.



 



   Pursuant to this Subsection, a newsrack shall be deemed abandoned when
it does not contain the newspaper or other publication specified therefor for
more than four (4) consecutive days for a daily publication, eight (8)
consecutive days for a weekly publication, sixteen (16) consecutive days for
a biweekly publication, or thirty-four (34) days for a monthly publication. 
A newsstand shall be deemed abandoned if it is not open for a period of more
than seven (7) consecutive days.



 



   (B)   Standard impound procedures:  Within forty-eight (48) hours
after removal of any newsrack, the Board shall notify the owner in writing,
fax or E-mail of the removal and the reason for removal where ownership
information is posted on the newsrack either through the City bar code decal
or the required owner contact information.  If ownership information is not
readily available because there is no City bar code decal, or ownership
identification information posted on the newsrack, or no newspaper or
periodical in the newsrack with contact information, the City shall make
every reasonable effort to comply with the notification procedure of this
subsection.  When notification is possible, the notice shall also inform the
owner of the right to request, either in writing or in person, within five
(5) business days of the date of the postmark of such written notice, a
hearing by the Board or its designee pursuant to Subsection (14), to
determine whether such removal was proper.



 



   (12)   Return of Impounded Newsracks:



 



   (A)   Any newsrack, together with its contents, which has been
impounded pursuant to Subdivision (11) hereof, shall be returned to the
permittee:



 



   (1)   Upon receipt of an impound fee as determined herein; or



 



   (2)   Upon a determination after hearing by the Board or its
designee, pursuant to Subsection (14) hereof, that the newsrack should not
have been impounded and should be returned to the permittee;



 



   (B)   In the event a hearing has not been requested pursuant to
Subsection (14) within the time permitted following the impoundment of any
newsrack, an impound fee as set forth herein shall be imposed upon the
permittee and shall be paid before the impounded newsrack is returned.



 



   (C)   The fees herein shall be determined and adopted by the Board
in order to collect sufficient money to defer the complete cost of the City's
newsrack permitting and enforcement program as set forth in this code.  The
fees shall be adjusted from time to time by the Board to reflect any change
in the cost of permitting and enforcement.  At no time shall the fees
adopted by the Board recover more than the actual cost of the program.



 



   (13)   Sale or Disposal After Impoundment:  The Department may sell
or otherwise dispose of any newsrack, together with its contents, and retain
the proceeds, pursuant to California Government Code Section 50050 et seq.,
from any such sale or other disposition, and any monies contained in said
newsrack at the time of its impoundment, provided that either:



 



   (A)   No hearing has been requested pursuant to Subsection (14)
within the time permitted;



 



   (B)   A hearing and an appeal, if filed, have resulted in a final
determination that said newsrack was properly impounded, and fees assessed
pursuant to Subsection (12) have not been received within thirty (30) days
from the date of the final determination.



 



   (14)   Hearings:



 



   (A)   Request for Hearing - Any newsrack permittee may file a
written request with the Department for a hearing, in person or by certified
mail, for the purpose of demonstrating that a newsrack should not have been
impounded, or that a violation as specified on the tag attached to a newsrack
pursuant to Subsection (10) hereof has not in fact occurred.



 



   (B)   Notice of Hearing - Within two (2) working days from the date
on which the request for hearing is received, the Department shall set a
hearing date and shall notify the designee by certified mail of the date,
time and place of said hearing.  Said hearing shall occur within ten (10)
working days of the date of mailing the notice unless the person requesting
the hearing wishes to have the hearing at a later date, and both parties
agree on the date.



 



   (C)   Conduct of Hearing - At the time set for such hearing, or at
the date to which such hearing is continued, the Board or its designee shall
receive all evidence relevant to the occurrence or non-occurrence of the
specified violation(s), the compliance or noncompliance with any of the
provisions of this Subsection, and any other relevant information.  Such
hearing need not be conducted according to technical rules relating to
evidence and witnesses.  Oral evidence shall be taken only on oath or
affirmation.



 



   (D)   Decision after Hearing - Within ten (10) working days after
the conclusion of the hearing, the Board or its designee shall find and
determine, from the facts adduced at said hearing, whether the newsrack
should have been tagged and/or impounded, and whether said newsrack shall be
returned except upon receipt of fees as specified in Subsection (12). The
decision of the Board or its designee shall be in writing and shall contain
findings of fact, a determination of the issues presented, and the amount of
the fee, if any, to be imposed.



 



   (E)   Notice of Decision - The Department shall send to the
designee, by certified mail, a copy of its decision and order.



 



   (15)   No Criminal Sanctions:  Notwithstanding any provision of
Subsection 11.00 (m) of this Code, no person shall be subject to the
imposition of criminal liability for any violation of LAMC § 42.00 (f).



 



   (16)   No Newsrack Areas - Regional Historic or Cultural
Significance:



 



   (A)   No newsrack shall be installed in an area deemed by the City
Cultural Heritage Commission and the City Council to be of municipal or
regional historic significance or regional cultural significance, including
any of the following locations:



 



   (1)   On the Hollywood Walk of Fame (both sides of Hollywood
Boulevard between La Brea Avenue and Gower Street, and both sides of Vine
Street between Yucca Street and Sunset Boulevard);



 



   (2)   On the sidewalks immediately contiguous to the restored City
Hall (the east block face on Spring Street between Temple Street and 1st
Street, the south block face of Temple Street between Spring Street and Main
Street, the west block face of Main Street between Temple Street and 1st
Street, and the north block face of 1st Street between Spring Street and Main
Street);



 



   (3)   El Pueblo de Los Angeles (Olvera Street, the east block face
of Main Street between Cesar Chavez Avenue and Aliso Street, the south block
of Cesar Chavez between Main Street and Alameda Street, the west block face
of Alameda Street between Cesar Chavez Avenue and Aliso Street, and the north
block face of Aliso Street between Main Street and Alameda Street);



 



   (4)   On the sidewalks immediately contiguous to Disney Hall (the
east block face of Hope Street between 1st Street and Upper 2nd Street; the
west south block face of 1st Street between Hope Avenue and Grand Avenue; the
west block face of Grand Avenue between 1st Street and Upper 2nd Street; and
the north block face of Upper 2nd Street between Hope Avenue and Grand
Avenue); or



 



   (5)   On the sidewalks on the block faces immediately to the west
and east of the Music Center and Dorothy Chandler Pavilion (the west block
face of Grand Avenue between 1st Street and Temple Street; and the east block
face of Hope Street between 1st Street and Temple Street).



 



   (6)   On the Venice Boardwalk (both sides of Ocean Front Walk
between Navy Street on the north and Venice Pier/Washington Boulevard on the
south).



 



   (7)   On the sidewalks of the Westwood Village Broxton Avenue
Promenade (both sides of Broxton Avenue between Le Conte Avenue and Kinross
Avenue).



 



   (B)   In the event an area of the City which is deemed by the City
Cultural Heritage Commission and the City Council to be of municipal regional
historic significance, such an area may apply to the Board for designation as
an area where no newsracks shall be installed, subject to the approval of the
City Council.



 



   (17)   Specific Plan/Streetscape Plan Areas:  Specific Plan Areas,
Streetscape Plan Areas, or other Special Planning Districts approved by the
Planning Department, which include a standard streetscape color, may request
a uniform newsrack color other than Ivy Green, from the Board, with Council
input, and if granted, the color shall be one of the following three colors:
black (RAL 9017 "Grotto Black"), blue (Benjamin Moore No. 805 "Westwood
Blue") or gray (Marine Silver 38/90010).



 



   (18)   Severability:  If any section or subsection of this
ordinance is deemed to be void or unenforceable, such shall be severed from
the whole and the remaining portions of the ordinance shall remain in full
force and effect.



 



   (g)   Streets – Newsstands.  (Amended by Ord. No. 145,691, Eff.
5/2/74.)



 



   (1)   No person shall install, use or maintain any newsstand which
projects onto, into or over any part of the roadway of any public street, or
which rests, wholly or in part, upon, along or over any portion of the
roadway of any street.



 



   (2)   No person shall install, use or maintain any newsstand which
in whole or in part rests upon, in or over any sidewalk or parkway when such
installation, use or maintenance endangers the safety of persons or property,
or when such site or location is used for public utility purposes, public
transportation purposes or other governmental use, or when such newsstand
unreasonably interferes with or impedes the flow of pedestrian or vehicular
traffic, the ingress into or the egress from any residence or place of
business, or the use of poles, posts, traffic signs or signals, hydrants,
mailboxes, or other objects permitted at or near said locations.



 



   (3)   Any newsstand which in whole or in part rests upon, in or over
any sidewalk or parkway, shall comply with the following standards:



 



   (A)   No newsstand shall exceed five feet in height, seventy-five
inches in width and three feet in depth, except that if erected parallel and
adjacent to the wall of a building, it shall not extend over that area of the
sidewalk or parkway by more than twenty inches, shall not exceed a length of
fifty feet, or a height of eight feet.  (Amended by Ord. No. 161,043, Eff.
5/3/86.)



 



   (B)   Except for a newsstand erected adjacent to the wall of a
building, no newsstand shall be placed less than twelve inches nor more than
eighteen inches from the edge of the curb.



 



   (C)   No newsstand shall be placed or maintained on the sidewalk or
parkway opposite another newsstand.



 



   (D)   No seat, chair, rack, case, canopy, awning, overhang, or other
object shall be attached to the exterior of any newsstand, nor shall any such
object when attached to any part of a newsstand be permitted to extend beyond
its exterior wall.



 



   (E)   No newsstand shall be so placed that the clear space for the
passage of pedestrians upon the sidewalk and parkway is reduced to less than
six feet.



 



   (F)   Newsstands shall be soundly constructed of wood, metal or
other suitable permanent material, painted in a manner and color as
prescribed by the Board of Public Works, and maintained at all times, in a
clean, neat and attractive condition and in good repair and, as to the
Central Traffic District, as defined in Section 80.00 of this Code, such
newsstands shall be of design and construction approved by the Department of
Cultural Affairs.  (Amended by Ord. No. 161,043, Eff. 5/3/86.)



 



   (G)   No newsstand shall be used for advertising signs or publicity
purposes other than that dealing with the display, sale or purchase of
newspapers or new periodicals.



 



   (H)   No newsstand shall be placed within three feet of any area
improved with lawn, flowers, shrubs or trees or within three feet of any
display window of any building abutting the street or in such manner as to
impede or interfere with the reasonable use of such window for display
purposes.



 



   (I)   No newsstand shall be utilized for the sale, or offer for
sale, nor for the display for sale, of any article or item other than
newspapers, magazines, periodicals and other similar newsprint
publications.  (Added by Ord. No. 161,043, Eff. 5/3/86.)



 



   (J)   Newsstands, in the Central Traffic District, as defined by
Section 80.00 of this Code, shall be open and utilized for business at least
six hours a day, five days a week and the holder of the permit shall be
present at the newsstand and operating it himself or herself seventy-five
percent (75%) of the time it is open, or thirty (30) hours a week, whichever
is less. Waivers of such requirement may be granted by the Board of Public
Works for good cause. (Added by Ord. No. 161,043, Eff. 5/3/86.)



 



   (4)   Every person placing or maintaining a newsstand on the streets
of the City of Los Angeles shall have affixed thereto in a place readily
visible to the public a telephone number or postal box number where the owner
may be reached.



 



   (5)   (Amended by Ord. No. 161,043, Eff. 5/3/86.)  No person shall
install, use or maintain any newsstand which in whole or in part rests upon,
in, or over any dedicated sidewalk or parkway in the Central Traffic
District, as defined by Section 80.00 of this Code, without first applying
for and obtaining a permit from the Department. The issuance of such permit
shall be subject to the provisions of this subdivision.



 



   (A)   Forms for Permit – The Department shall prescribe and make
available permit application forms. The applicant shall submit to the
Department a completed form, on which the following information shall have
been entered:



 



   (i)   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant;



 



   (ii)   The name, address and telephone number of the person whom the
applicant designates to be notified concerning the applicant’s newsstand;



 



   (iii)   The requested location for the newsstand.



 



   (B)   Issuance of Permit – Upon proper application, the Department
may, upon the payment of the fee provided below, issue a newsstand permit to
the applicant in accordance with the provisions of this Subdivision (5). Such
permit shall not be assignable nor shall more than one permit be issued to
any one person. No more than two newsstands shall be allowed on any one
block. As used herein “block” shall mean one side of a street between two
consecutive intersecting streets.



 



   (C)   The Board shall enact regulations for the selection of
permittees taking into consideration the length of time a newsstand has been
operated by the applicant at a particular location, whether there has existed
a business license for such newsstand, the number of violations an applicant
has incurred in the operation of his or her newsstand and such other factors
the Board deems appropriate.



 



   (D)   Validity of Permit – Permits shall be valid from the
issuance date until the May 31st following such date, and may be renewed
annually thereafter. Such permits shall be issued initially for a period not
to exceed one year and renewals thereof shall be for a maximum of one year
periods thereafter.



 



   (E)   Permit Fee – There shall be a permit fee for new, and
renewal, permits in the amount of twenty-five (25) dollars for each
newsstand. Whenever any permit is issued after May 31st, the amount of such
fee shall be prorated on a quarterly basis. The permit fee may be increased
by the Board if so justified by an increase in the cost of regulation.



 



   (F)   Permit Decals – The Department shall issue to each permittee
a permit decal for the newsstand covered by the permit. Permittees shall
cause the decal to be affixed to the front face of the newsstand so as to be
visible from the sidewalk.



 



   (6)   Prior to the issuance of a permit by the Department, the
applicant shall furnish to the Department a certificate, in a form
satisfactory to the Department and City Attorney, that the applicant has then
in force public liability and property damage insurance, naming the City as
an additional insured, in an amount and type as determined by the Board,
subject to reasonable availability. The evidence of insurances filed shall
include a statement by the insurance carrier that thirty (30) days notice
will be given to the City Attorney before any cancellation of coverage. The
City shall be named as an additional insured on any such insurance policy.
Such insurance shall be maintained throughout the permit period.  (Added by
Ord. No. 161,043, Eff. 5/3/86.)



 



   (7)   Any newsstand installed, used or maintained in violation of
this subsection shall be removed subject to the provisions of Subdivisions
(7) through (12) of Subsection (f) of this section. In addition any violation
of this subsection shall subject the applicant and/or violator to the
imposition of criminal liability.  (Added by Ord. No. 161,043, Eff. 5/3/86.)



 



   (8)   Upon the cessation and abandonment of operations of any
newsstand the person holding the permit, or if no one is presently holding a
permit the last one to hold a permit for the newsstand, shall be responsible
for the removal of such newsstand. If the newsstand is not so removed the
City shall so remove it pursuant to Subsection (f) hereof and assess the most
recent holder of the permit for the costs incurred. (Added by Ord. No.
161,043, Eff. 5/3/86.)



 



   (9)   Violation of any provision of this subsection may result,
after due notice and hearing, in the revocation of the permit by the Board. 
(Added by Ord. No. 161,043, Eff. 5/3/86.)



 



   (h)   Freeway On-Ramps and Off-Ramps – Sales Prohibited. 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code, no person on any street, or
other public property of whatever nature or description, shall, within fifty
feet of the roadway of any freeway on-ramp or off-ramp, distribute, deliver,
sell, offer for sale or solicit the sale of any newspapers, magazines,
periodicals, circulars, handbills or other printed matter or any goods, wares
or merchandise regardless of type, nature, kind or description.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 145,691, Eff. 5/2/74.)



 



   (i)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to the
installation and maintenance of any bench installed and maintained in
accordance with Article 8 of Chapter VI of this code, nor to the operation
and maintenance of searchlights, generators and floodlights in accordance
with the restrictions and requirements of Division T of Chapter VIII of this
Code. Nor shall the provisions of this section prohibit the putting of
business notices, signs or emblems upon ordinary business or carrier
vehicles. Nor shall the provisions of this section apply to temporary selling
activities and advertising related thereto conducted pursuant to a permit
granted under Subsection (j) hereof. (Amended by Ord. No. 145,691, Eff.
5/2/74.)



 



   (j)   Permit for Temporary Selling Activities Board of Public
Works.  (Amended by Ord. No. 145,691, Eff. 5/2/74.)



 



   (1)   The Board of Public Works may issue upon written application,
made upon a form prescribed by the Board, a permit authorizing temporary
selling activities and advertising relative thereto, on sidewalks, parkways
and roadways, provided that as to roadways such permit’s issuance will, in
addition to this section’s requirements, be governed by the provisions of
Section 41.20 of this Code, in connection with a community civic event
sponsored and conducted by a nonprofit organization formed for charitable,
educational, civic, veteran, philanthropic or other benevolent purposes,
under the following conditions:  (Amended by Ord. No. 150,706, Eff. 5/13/78.)



 



   (A)   “Community civic center” means the sponsoring and
conducting by a nonprofit organization of a civic, artistic, cultural,
charitable, educational, veteran or benevolent activity of community
interest. The Board shall require reasonable proof of the nonprofit status of
the sponsoring organization and a sufficient showing of community interest,
which showing shall consist of furnishing the Board with names and addresses
of at least 100 persons who will support the activity, at least 50% of which
either reside or work in the location specified in the application for permit
where the activity is to take place.



 



   (B)   Each permit shall be valid for a period of three consecutive
days only, two of which days shall be a Saturday or Sunday.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 158,731, Eff. 2/25/84.)



 



   (C)   Each application for a permit must be accompanied by a fee and
must be presented to the Board not less than 40 nor more than 180 days before
the commencing date of the proposed permit activities; provided that the
Board may waive these time requirements if it determines such waiver to be in
the public interest. The fee herein shall be determined and adopted in the
same manner as provided in Section 12.37-I, 1 of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code for establishing fees.  (Amended by Ord. No. 165,675, Eff. 5/11/90.)



 



   (D)   No person or sponsoring organization shall fail to keep the
permit, at all times, at the place where the selling activities are being
conducted, nor fail, upon demand therefor, to exhibit such permit to any
public officer.



 



   (E)   No selling or advertising activities shall be conducted in the
roadway or within two feet of the curb of any sidewalk unless authorized by
the Board of Public works.  (Amended by Ord. No. 150,706, Eff. 5/13/78.)



 



   (F)   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,283, Eff. 6/26/00, Oper. 7/1/00.) 
Nor may such selling activities take place without an Information Card,
written Notice of Intention, or professional fund-raiser’s license if the
activity is such that one would be required under Article 4, Chapter 4 of the
Los Angeles Municipal Code.



 



   (G)   The application for such permit shall contain:



 



   1.   The name of the applicant, the sponsoring organization, the
event chairman and the addresses and telephone numbers of each.



 



   2.   The location and outside perimeter of the selling area,
indicated upon a map of the area.



 



   3.   The date and times at which the selling activities are to take
place.



 



   4.   A description of the selling activity which will be conducted.



 



   5.   A list of all persons who will be engaging in temporary selling
activities at any time during the dates and times for which a temporary
selling permit is granted. However this list may be furnished after the
application has been submitted, so long as it is not furnished later than one
week before the event is to take place.



 



   6.   An agreement to comply with the terms of the permit.



 



   (2)   Sponsoring organizations may be granted a temporary selling
permit if the organization meets the following requirements:



 



   (A)   That the title of any real property in the City of Los Angeles
owned by such organization is vested in the name of such organization, if it
be a corporation, or else in the name or names of a responsible trustee or
trustees under a declaration of trust or other written instrument setting
forth the rights of said organization therein; and recorded in the records of
the County Recorder of Los Angeles County.



 



   (B)   That the declared  purposes for which such organization is
organized are charitable, educational, civic, community service, veteran,
benevolent or other philanthropic purposes, and not for the pecuniary profit
of the members of the organization thereof or any of them.



 



   (C)   That for three months prior to its application for a temporary
selling permit said organization has faithfully complied with the following
provisions with reference to its accounts, namely: All funds received by it,
and all disbursements made by it, have been entered upon the books of its
treasurer or other financial officer, receipts have been given or tendered
for all money or other property donated to it, whenever required by law or
ordinance; all expenditures other than petty cash to a reasonable amount have
been made by checks signed by at least two officers of such organization;
that the bank book of such organization has been balanced and reconciled with
the books of account at reasonable intervals.



 



   (D)   That no monies of said organization are on loan directly or
indirectly to any  officer, director, trustee, employee or member thereof,
and that the organization has not invested any monies constituting part of
its permanent endowment funds except in securities legal as investments for
savings banks within the State of California, and has not diverted funds
donated to it from an source to purposes other than those for which they were
donated.  (Amended by Ord. No. 156,941, Eff. 8/20/82.)



 



   (E)   That the work for which such organization has been formed has
been faithfully performed.



 



   (F)   That the bylaws and other written rules and regulations of
such organization define the powers and duties of the officers of such
organization, and that a copy of the Articles of Incorporation, if it be a
corporation, and a copy of the bylaws and other written rules and regulations
of such organization have been filed with the Department of Public works.



 



   (G)   That within one year prior to its application such
organization has not violated any law or ordinance applicable to it.



 



   (3)   The Board shall cause such application to be investigated and
shall grant the permit if it determines: that the proposed activities will
not disrupt to an unreasonable extent the movement of vehicular or pedestrian
traffic or create a hazard to the public; that the proposed activities are
not of a size or nature that require the diversion of so great a number of
police personnel to regulate such activities that it prevents reasonable
police protection for the City or for the councilmanic district where the
temporary selling activity is to take place; that the concentration of
persons, equipment and materials is not so great in the selling area that it
would prevent proper fire, police and ambulance protection; that the
applicant agrees to be responsible for cleanup necessitated by the proposed
activities and the Board may, in its discretion, require a cleanup deposit to
guarantee that cleanup takes place.  (Amended by Ord. No. 160,175, Eff.
8/24/85.)



 



   (4)   The Board shall further condition the granting of such permit
upon the permit applicant filing with the Board a policy of public liability
insurance in which the City has been named as insured or co-insured with the
permittee. The policy of insurance shall insure the City and its officers and
employees against all claims arising out of or in connection with the
issuance of the permit or the operation of the permittee, his agents or
representatives pursuant to the permit. The policy of insurance shall provide
coverage no less than $100,000 per occurrence of bodily injury and $25,000
per occurrence of property damage.



 



   (5)   The Board shall adopt uniform rules and regulations so as to
carry out the purposes of this subsection and shall condition the granting of
permits upon compliance therewith and also with such other conditions as the
Board may deem necessary to impose for the proper protection of persons and
property.



 



   (k)   The provisions of this section shall not prohibit sales that
are otherwise permitted under the terms of Section 80.73 of this Code.
(Amended by Ord. No. 150,561, Eff. 3/19/78.)



 



   (l)   Permit for Flower Vending Booths.  (Added by Ord. No.
159,008, Eff. 7/1/84.)



 



   (1)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to the sale of
flowers from a flower vending booth operated pursuant to a permit granted by
the Board of Public Works.



 



   (2)   The Board may issue a revocable permit for the installation
and operation of a flower vending booth on a sidewalk pursuant to the one
year pilot flower vending booth demonstration program authorized by the City
Council in the downtown area.



 



   (3)   The issuance of any such permit does not preclude the
requirements of any other permits or approval for any such installation.



 



   (m)   (Repealed by Ord. No. 185,900, Eff. 12/6/18.)



 



 



SEC. 42.00.1.  SALES FROM ICE CREAM TRUCKS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 176,830, Eff. 8/27/05.)



 



   (a)   Definitions.



 



   "Ice cream truck" shall mean a motor vehicle engaged in the curbside
vending or sale of frozen refrigerated desserts, confections or novelties
commonly known as ice cream, prepackaged candies, prepackaged snack foods, or
soft drinks, primarily intended for sale to children under 12 years of age.



 



   "Dispense or dispensing" shall mean peddling, hawking, displaying for
sale, soliciting the sale of, offering or exposing for sale, selling or
giving away.



 



   "School" shall mean any elementary school, middle school, junior high
school, four-year high school, senior high school, continuation high school,
or any branch thereof.



 



   "Street" shall mean all that area dedicated to public use for public
street purposes and shall include, but not be limited to roadways, parkways,
alleys and sidewalks.



 



   (b)   Sales from Ice Cream Truck.  No person shall dispense any
item, other than food, from an ice cream truck on a street.



 



   (c)   Hours of Sales.  No person shall dispense any item, including
food, from an ice cream truck on a street during the following hours: From
8:30 p.m. to 7:30 a.m. during the months of April through October and from
5:30 p.m. to 7:30 a.m. during the months of November through March.



 



   (d)   Sales near Schools.  No person shall dispense any item, at
any time, including food, from an ice cream truck parked or stopped within
500 feet of the property line of a school between 7:30 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. on
regular school days.



 



   (e)   Minors in Vehicle.  No person shall permit a person under
sixteen (16) years of age to ride in or on an ice cream truck unless the
person in control of the ice cream truck is the parent or guardian of the
minor.



 



   (f)   Penalties.  A violation of any of the provisions of this
section is a misdemeanor.  Violations set forth in this section are
cumulative to, and in addition to, any other violations of state or local
law.  For a second or subsequent violation of subsection (b), the court
shall, in addition to any other penalties, order that the ice cream truck
involved in the second or subsequent violation be impounded for 30 days if at
the time of the second or subsequent violation, the vehicle was registered to
the violator.



 



 



SEC. 42.01.  STREET – SIDEWALK – PEDESTRIANS  BUILDING SETBACK.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 145,692, Eff. 5/3/74.)



 



   No person, except as otherwise provided in Section 42.00, shall use any
area in front of any building occupied by a sidewalk or used or intended for
use for sidewalk purposes and extending eighteen (18) feet back of the curb
line for any purpose other than for the free and unobstructed passage of
pedestrians thereon within the Central Traffic District as said district is
described in Ordinance No. 50,515, adopted December 19, 1924, or Chapter 8 of
this Code.



 



   The use of any such sidewalk or area other than for the free and
unobstructed passage of pedestrians thereon shall constitute a public
nuisance.



 



 



SEC. 42.02.  STREET – SIDEWALK – ADJACENT PROPERTY – SOLICITING TRADE.



 



   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person in or on any street,
sidewalk, or other public way to importune, or solicit any other person, by
word of mouth, gesture, or otherwise, to enter a place where goods, wares, or
merchandise is sold, or where for a price or a donation, services are
offered, or any exhibition, motion picture, play or performance is shown.



 



   (b)   It shall be unlawful for anyone who is visible or audible to
any person on any street, sidewalk, or other public way, in a loud,
boisterous, raucous, offensive or insulting manner to importune or solicit
any other person to enter a place where goods, wares, or merchandise is sold,
or where for a price or donation, services are offered, or any exhibition,
motion picture, play or performance is shown.



 



   Insofar as 42.02 prohibits the solicitation of sales of goods by
merchants by the use of entrances, doorways or hallways abutting on public
ways, it cannot be sustained as a valid exercise of police power as applied
to merchants who solicit business in a quiet, dignified and peaceful manner,
without pressure or undue influence, and who make no sales except inside
their store. The ordinance violates California Constitution, Article I,
Section 1 and 13, and the Constitution of the United States, Fourteenth
Amendment, and violates the constitutional guaranty of free speech.



   McKay Jewelers v. Bowron, 19 Cal. 2d 595, 599, 600.



 



   A legislative body may not, under the guise of the police power, impose
unnecessary and unreasonable restrictions on the use of private property or
the pursuit of useful activities.



   McKay Jewelers v. Bowron, Supra.



 



 



SEC. 42.03.  SELLING OF TICKETS OF ADMISSION TO PLACES OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLAGE
IN PUBLIC PLACES AND PLACES OPEN TO THE PUBLIC PROHIBITED – EXCEPTIONS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 182,813, Eff. 12/10/13.)



 



   (a)   No Person upon any Street, park or public property shall
engage in the Business of selling or re-selling Tickets.



 



   (b)   No Person upon any Place Open to the Public shall engage in
the Business of selling or re-selling Tickets.



 



   (c)   The provisions of Subsections (a) and (b) of this section
shall not include or apply to the sale of any Ticket at or from any office,
booth or other similar place regularly and permanently established and
maintained therefor with the express permission and authorization of the
person or governmental agency in charge, care or control of the property on
which such office, booth or place is located.



 



   (d)   For purposes of this section, the definitions in Section 42.00
and the definition of the following phrase shall apply:



 



   "Place Open to the Public" shall mean every place of public amusement
or entertainment, stadium, auditorium, theater, athletic field, concert hall
or arena and the property upon which such place is located or any other
property contiguous thereto which is under the same care, management or
control.



 



 



SEC. 42.04.  STREET – SIDEWALK – SOLICITING PATRONAGE.



 



   No person shall solicit patronage for any hotel, lodging house,
apartment house, restaurant or cafe in or upon any street or sidewalk in
front of any established place of business other than his own.



 



 



SEC. 42.05.  STREET – SIDEWALK – SOLICITING PATRONAGE TRANSPORTATION.



 



   No person shall solicit custom or patronage for any vehicle used or
intended for use in the conveyance or transportation of persons, property,
goods, wares, or merchandise, or for an place where meals and board or
lodging are furnished for a consideration, or for any railway trip or boat
trip upon any street or sidewalk within the district bounded and described as
follows:



 



   First Street from Central Avenue to Olive Street; Olive Street from
First Street to Seventh Street; Seventh Street from Olive Street to Grand
Avenue; Grand Avenue from Seventh Street to Pico Street; Pico Street from
Grand Avenue to Los Angeles Street; Los Angeles Street from Pico Street to
Sixth Street; Sixth Street from Los Angeles Street to Central Avenue; Central
Avenue from Sixth Street to First Street.



 



 



SEC. 42.06.  RAILROAD – STAGE DEPOT – SOLICITING PATRONAGE.



 



   (a)   No person shall solicit custom or patronage for any purpose
for or on behalf of himself or any other person in any railroad or automobile
stage depot or grounds.



 



   (b)   No person shall stand or park any vehicle owned, operated or
under the control of said person in any railroad or automobile stage depot,
grounds or premises.



 



   (c)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any person
who, with the written consent of the owner, lessee or managing agent of said
railroad or automobile stage depot, park or stand any vehicle used or
intended for use in transporting persons or property to or from such depot,
grounds or premises; nor to persons maintaining booths for the information,
accommodation or convenience of the traveling public with the written consent
of the owner, lessee or managing agent of such railroad or automobile stage
depot.



 



   The provisions of this subsection shall not be regarded as soliciting
within the meaning of this section.



 



   An ordinance which prohibits solicitation of patronage for
transportation in or about a depot without consent of the owner does not
constitute unlawful discrimination between persons who have and others who
have not such consent, and is valid.



   In re Stratham, 45 C. A. 436.



 



 



SEC. 42.07.  COMMON CARRIER – SOLICITING PATRONAGE ON.



 



   No person shall solicit custom or patronage for any purpose for or on
behalf of himself or any other person upon any railroad train or car, boat or
other vehicle operated as a common carrier for passengers without the written
consent so to do from the owner, lessee or managing agent of such railroad
train or car, boat or other vehicle.



 



 



SEC. 42.08.  STREET – SIDEWALK – SOLICITING PATRONAGE PROHIBITED IN AREA.



 



   No person shall solicit custom or patronage for or on behalf of himself
or any other person in or upon any portion of those streets and sidewalks
described as follows;



 



   (a)   Alameda Street, between Macy Street and Aliso Street;



 



   (b)   Aliso Street, between Vignes Street and Alameda Street;



 



   (c)   Macy Street, between Vignes Street and Alameda Street;



 



   (d)   Inglewood-Redondo Road, between Highway and Century Blvd;



 



   (e)   Century Blvd between Inglewood-Redondo Road and Sepulveda
Blvd.;



 



   (f)   Sepulveda Blvd between Century Blvd and Imperial Highway;



 



   (g)   Imperial Highway, between Sepulveda Blvd and Inglewood-Redondo
Road.



 



 



SEC. 42.09.  SOLICITING PATRONAGE – MANNER OF.



 



   No person shall solicit custom or patronage upon any street or sidewalk
in a loud, noisy or boisterous tone of voice or manner, or cry out or lay
hands upon the person or baggage of any person without the express consent of
such person, or obstruct the movement of any person or follow any person for
the purpose of soliciting custom or patronage.



 



 



SEC. 42.10.  SOLICITORS OF PATRONAGE – INTERFERENCE WITH.



 



   No runner, agent, solicitor, driver, operator or motorman of any
vehicle for hire upon any street or sidewalk shall shuffle or crowd about or
interfere with any runner, agent, solicitor, driver, operator or motorman
with whom any person is negotiating or inquiring about the transportation of
persons or baggage.



 



 



SEC. 42.11.  HOTEL – LOITERING.



 



   No person shall linger, loiter, sit, stand or otherwise use for
business or social purposes any public room in any hotel in violation of the
expressed wish of the owner or manager of the hotel.



 



 



SEC. 42.11.1.  DEPOTS – STATIONS – AIRPORTS – LOITERING ABOUT
PROHIBITED.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 140,388, Eff. 6/28/70.)



 



   It shall be unlawful for any person to loaf or loiter in any waiting
room, lobby, or other portion of any railway station, electric railway
station, airport or bus depot or upon the grounds of any common carrier
adjacent thereto, provided, however, that nothing in this section will be
deemed to prohibit any person occupying such station, airport or depot or
grounds adjacent thereto, for the bonafide purpose of meeting relatives or
acquaintances arriving upon any conveyance entering such place, or from
accompanying or meeting relatives or acquaintances who are departing from
such station, airport or depot upon any public conveyance operation
therefrom, and, provided further, that nothing in this section shall be
deemed to apply to any part of said station, airport or depot or grounds let
for use as a restaurant or occupied by any other business not that of a
common carrier.



 



 



SEC. 42.12.  ALMS – SOLICITING IN BUILDINGS.



 



   No person shall seek, beg, solicit custom, patronage, alms or donations
for himself or on behalf of any person, or distribute any handbills or
advertising matter upon the premises or grounds of any hotel, apartment
house, bungalow court, office building or loft building without first having
secured the written consent so to do from the owner, lessee, managing agent
or person having charge of the operation thereof.



 



 



SEC. 42.13.  SIDEWALK AND PARK VENDING PROGRAM.



   (Title Amended by Ord. No. 186,478, Eff. 12/18/19.)



 



   A.   Definitions.  For purposes of this section, the following
words or phrases shall have the following meanings:



 



   1.   Citation.  An Administrative Citation issued pursuant to
Article 1.2 of Chapter 1 of this Code.



 



   2.   City.  The City of Los Angeles, a municipal corporation.



 



   3.   Food.  Any type of edible substance or beverage.



 



   4.   Goods or Merchandise (Merchandise).  Any item that is not Food.



 



   5.   Park.  A "park" shall include every public park or other
recreational facility in the City of Los Angeles which is owned, controlled,
operated or managed by the Board of Recreation and Parks Commissioners.



 



   6.   Person or Persons.  One or more natural persons, individuals,
groups, businesses, business trusts, companies, corporations, joint ventures,
joint stock companies, partnership, entities, associations, clubs or
organizations composed of two or more individuals (or the manager, lessee,
agent, servant, officer or employee of any of them), whether engaged in
business, nonprofit or any other activity.



 



   7.   Rules and Regulations.  Detailed requirements concerning the
Vending Program meant to clarify and aid in the administration and
enforcement of this section.



 



   8.   Sidewalk.  Any surface in the public right-of-way intended for
use by pedestrians.



 



   9.   Vending Program.  The Vending Program regulates Vendors on
Sidewalks and in Parks for the sale of Food or Merchandise.



 



   10.   Vend, Vends or Vending.  To sell, offer for sale, expose or
display for sale, solicit offers to purchase, or to barter Food or
Merchandise, or to require someone to negotiate, establish or pay a fee
before providing Food or Merchandise, even if characterized as a donation.



 



   11.   Vendor.  A Person who Vends.



 



   B.   Administration.



 



   1.   Rules and Regulations to implement the Vending Program on
Sidewalks shall be developed and recommended by the Department of Public
Works, Bureau of Street Services.  The Rules and Regulations for Sidewalks
shall be approved by the Board of Public Works and adopted by the City
Council through resolution.  The Rules and Regulations to implement the
Vending Program in Parks shall be developed and approved by the Board of
Recreation and Parks Commissioners and adopted by the City Council through
resolution.  The Bureau of Street Services and the Department of Recreation
and Parks shall post the Rules and Regulations on their websites.



 



   2.   The Board of Public Works, or its designee, in consultation
with the Board of Recreation and Parks Commissioners, is authorized to issue
Sidewalk and Park Vending Operating Permits for Vending Food or Merchandise
at the following rate:  (Amended by Ord. No. 186,478, Eff. 12/18/19.)



 



   (a)   $291 until July 1, 2020.



 



   (b)   $541 on and after July 1, 2020.



 



   3.   Beginning on January 1, 2020, Vending without a Sidewalk and
Park Vending Operating Permit shall be unlawful.  Before January 1, 2020,
Vendors must Vend in accordance with this section and the Rules and
Regulations.  (Amended by Ord. No. 186,478, Eff. 12/18/19.)



 



   4.   The City Council shall select a vending service provider
through a competitive process, consistent with City law.  The Bureau of
Street Services shall monitor and assist the vending service provider with
its duties and responsibilities.



 



   C.   Restricted Vending Locations.



 



   1.   The City may establish through the adoption of Rules and
Regulations certain limited areas where Vending may be restricted or
prohibited.  The Bureau of Street Services shall determine restrictions or
prohibitions on Sidewalk Vending based directly on objective health, safety
and welfare concerns.  The Department of Recreation and Parks shall
determine restrictions or prohibitions on Park Vending based on whether it
is: 1) directly related to objective health, safety or welfare concerns; 2)
necessary to ensure the public's use and enjoyment of natural resources and
recreational opportunities; 3) necessary to prevent an undue concentration of
commercial activity that unreasonably interferes with the scenic and natural
character of the Park; or 4) necessary to comply with a condition in a deed
conveying the property to the City.  These restrictions or prohibitions
shall be detailed in the Rules and Regulations and adopted by the City
Council through resolution.  For purposes of this section, perceived
community animus or economic competition does not constitute an objective
health, safety or welfare concern, pursuant to applicable state law.



 



   2.   Restricted Vending locations, as well as all conditions
applicable in each restricted Vending location, shall be detailed in the
Rules and Regulations and include, but are not limited to, the following:



 



   (a)   Vending is prohibited within the immediate vicinity of an area
designated for a temporary special permit issued by the City, provided that
any notice, business interruption mitigation, or other rights provided to
affected businesses or property owners under the City's temporary special
permit are also provided to a Vendor permitted to operate in the area, if
applicable.  For purposes of this paragraph, a temporary special permit is a
permit issued by the City for the temporary use of, or encroachment on, the
sidewalk or other public area, including, but not limited to, an encroachment
permit, special event permit, or temporary event permit, for purposes
including, but not limited to, filming, parades, or outdoor concerts.  A
prohibition on Vending pursuant to this paragraph shall only be effective for
the limited duration of the temporary special permit.



 



   (b)   Vending is prohibited within 500 feet of: 1) the Hollywood
Walk of Fame, Universal Studios and the El Pueblo de Los Angeles Historical
Monument (as described in Chapter 25 of Division 22 of the Los Angeles
Administrativel Code); 2) Dodger Stadium, the Hollywood Bowl, the Staples
Center and the LA Coliseum on event days; and 3) any other venue as
determined by the Board of Public Works or Board of Recreation and Parks
Commissioners and published in the Rules and Regulations.



 



   (c)   Vending at Venice Beach is limited to First Amendment
protected expressive activities as set forth in Section 42.15.



 



   3.   The procedure for measuring the 500 foot vending restriction
shall be specified in the Rules and Regulations.  The Department of Public
Works, Bureau of Engineering shall develop interactive maps available to the
public disclosing locations with any restriction on Vending.



 



   D.   Enforcement.



 



   1.   A Vendor who is issued a Citation shall be subject to the
following fines:



 



   (a)   Vending which violates a requirement in this section or in the
Rules and Regulations, other than failure to possess a valid license or
permit:



 



   (1)   An administrative fine of $100 for a first violation.



 



   (2)   An administrative fine of $150 for a second violation.



 



   (3)   An administrative fine of $200 for a third violation and each
subsequent violation.



 



   (4)   A violation occurring after 12 consecutive months with no
violation shall be considered a first violation.



 



   (5)   A Vendor's license and/or permit may be revoked or suspended
for the remainder of its term upon a fourth or subsequent violation.



 



   (b)   Vending without a valid license or permit:



 



   (1)   An administrative fine of $250 for a first violation.



 



   (2)   An administrative fine of $500 for a second violation.



 



   (3)   An administrative fine of $1,000 for a third violation and
each subsequent violation.



 



   (4)   A violation occurring after 12 consecutive months with no
violation shall be considered a first violation.



 



   (5)   The administrative fines listed in this paragraph may be
reduced from $250 to $100, $500 to $150 and $1,000 to $200 upon submission of
proof of license and/or permit to the City Attorney's ACE citation processing
center, as specified in the Rules and Regulations.



 



   2.   Additional fines, fees, assessments, or any other financial
conditions beyond those authorized in Subsection D.1. shall not be assessed.



 



   3.   Unless otherwise specified herein, all Citations issued for
violations of this section and the Rules and Regulations shall be enforced by
the provisions set forth in Article 1.2 of Chapter 1 of this Code.



 



   4.   When issuing a Citation, the adjudicator shall take into
consideration the Vendor's ability to pay the fine using the criteria
described in Subdivision (a) or (b) of California Government Code Section
68632.  Notice shall be given to the Vendor of his or her right to request
an ability-to-pay determination and instructions or other materials for
requesting an ability-to-pay determination shall be available.  The Vendor
may request an ability-to-pay determination at the adjudication stage or
while the citation remains unpaid, including when a citation is delinquent or
has been referred to a comprehensive collection program.  If the Vendor
meets the criteria set forth herein, the City shall accept, in full
satisfaction, 20 percent of the administrative fine, imposed pursuant to
Subsection D.1.



 



   E.   Services.  Unpermitted vending of services or anything other
than Food or Merchandise in the City is unlawful and subject to the
provisions of Section 11.00 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.  Vending of
services is unlawful even if the vending of services is combined with the
Vending of Food or Merchandise, and even if the services are deemed to be
free of charge with the purchase of Food or Merchandise.



 



   F.   Extortion.  Any extortion of a Vendor will be punishable under
Section 518 of the California Penal Code and any attempted extortion of a
Vendor will be punishable under Section 524 of the California Penal Code.



 



   G.   Severability.  If any provision of this ordinance is found to
be unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent
jurisdiction, that invalidity shall not affect the remaining provisions of
this ordinance that can be implemented without the invalid provisions and, to
this end, the provisions of this ordinance are declared to be severable. 
The City Council hereby declares that it would have adopted this ordinance
and each provision hereof irrespective of whether any one or more of the
provisions are judicially determined to be invalid, unconstitutional or
otherwise unenforceable.



 



 



SEC. 42.14.  SOLICITING – USE OF CITY NAME.



 



   No person shall use the name of any department or officer of the City
in the solicitation of funds for any private business or in the sale or offer
for sale of advertising space or matter in any newspaper, magazine, book,
periodical, pamphlet or any publication of any kind or character, or state to
any other person from whom funds are being so solicited to whom such offer to
sell or sale is made or to be made, either orally, in writing, or in printed
matter, that such solicitation of such advertising medium bears the
endorsement or approval of any department or officer of the City.



 



 



SEC. 42.14.1.  SOLICITING ON CITY PROPERTY.



 



   No person shall seek beg or solicit custom, patronage, sales, alms or
donations for himself or on behalf of any person in any manner or for any
purpose in any building or in or on any property or premises under the
control of this City without the written permission of the head of the
department having jurisdiction over the building or grounds where such
solicitation is to be made. Where solicitation is to be made of employees of
a department within the offices and spaces in public buildings assigned to
that department, such solicitation is prohibited unless permission is
obtained from the head of the department.



 



 



SEC. 42.15.  VENDING AND EXCESSIVE NOISE ON BEACHES PROHIBITED.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 181,963, Eff. 1/20/12.)



 



   A.   Definitions. For purposes of this Section, the following words
or phrases shall have the following meanings:



 



   1.   Board. The Board of Recreation and Park Commissioners of the
City of Los Angeles.



 



   2.   Boardwalk. The Boardwalk is the manmade promenade that runs
parallel to the beach and is designated or referred to as "Ocean Front Walk"
or just the "Boardwalk". The Boardwalk runs from the City of Santa Monica on
the north to the City of El Segundo on the south. A map depicting the
Boardwalk is available for inspection and copying at the Police Substation or
at the Recreation Office.



 



   3.   City. The City of Los Angeles, a municipal corporation.



 



   4.   Designated Space or Designated Spaces. A Designated Space or
Designated Spaces are the 205 areas on the Boardwalk designated by the City
and located between Navy Street on the north and 17th Avenue on the south. A
map depicting the Designated Spaces is available for inspection and copying
at the Police Substation or at the Recreation Office.



 



   5.   Department. The Department of Recreation and Parks of the City
of Los Angeles.



 



   6.   Donation. A gift; a voluntary act which is not required and
does not require anything in return.



 



   7.   Food. Any type of edible substance or beverage.



 



   8.   Goods or Merchandise. Any items that are not food.



 



   9.   Handcrafts. Objects made either by hand or with the help of
devices used to shape or produce the objects through such methods as weaving,
carving, stitching, sewing, lacing, and beading including objects such as
jewelry, pottery, silver work, leather goods, and trinkets. Most Handcrafts
have more than nominal utility apart from any communicative value they
possess. Most commonly, Handcrafts do not communicate a message, idea, or
concept to others, are often mass produced or produced with limited
variation. Handcrafts do not include visual arts.



 



   10.   Pagodas. The shade structures and seating, plus the area
within a ten foot radius around each of the shade structures and seating,
located on the Boardwalk at Clubhouse Avenue, Breeze Avenue, Park Avenue,
Sunset Avenue and Dudley Avenue. A map depicting the Pagodas is available for
inspection and copying at the Police Substation or at the Recreation Office.



 



   11.   Perform, Performing, Performance or Performances. To engage in
any of the following activities on public property: playing musical
instruments, singing, dancing, acting, pantomiming, puppeteering, juggling,
reciting, engaging in magic, creating visual art in its entirety, presenting
or enacting a play, work of music, work of art, physical or mental feat, or
other constitutionally protected entertainment or form of expression. The
terms Perform, Performing, Performance or Performances shall not include:



 



   (a)   The application of substances to others' skin, including but
not limited to, paints, dyes and inks;



 



   (b)   The provision of personal services such as massage or hair
weaving, cutting or styling;



 



   (c)   the completion or other partial creation of visual art;



 



   (d)   the creation of visual art which is mass produced or produced
with limited variation; or



 



   (e)   the creation of Handcrafts.



 



   12.   Performer. A Performer is a Person who Performs. Performer
includes the employers, employees, and agents of a Performer. Indicia of
being a performer include, but are not limited to, setting up performance
equipment, staging or orienting the performance towards the public,
performing in the same location for an extended period of time, performing in
the public over multiple days, seeking voluntary contributions through
passing around a hat or leaving open an instrument case or other receptacle,
and soliciting donations after a performance.



 



   13.   Person or Persons. One or more natural persons, individuals,
groups, businesses, business trusts, companies, corporations, joint ventures,
joint stock companies, partnership, entities, associations, clubs or
organizations composed of two or more individuals (or the manager, lessee,
agent, servant, officer or employee of any of them), whether engaged in
business, nonprofit or any other activity.



 



   14.   Police Substation. The Police Substation is the Los Angeles
Police Department office building located at 17th Avenue and Ocean Front Walk.



 



   15.   Program Rules. Rules adopted by the Board pursuant to its
Charter authority and made applicable to use of the public space on and
adjacent to the Boardwalk. The Program Rules will be adopted at a duly
noticed public hearing at which the public is provided an opportunity to
comment, as required by the Ralph M. Brown Act, at least ten (10) days prior
to implementation. The Program Rules, as may be amended from time-to-time by
the Board, shall be available for inspection and copying at the Police
Substation or at the Recreation Office.



 



   16.   Pushcart. Any mobile device that holds Food or Goods or
Merchandise, as defined in this Subsection, and is used to vend.



 



   17.   Recreation Area. The area between Horizon and 20th Avenues
that includes the Boardwalk, grassy areas, the Police Substation, which is
co-located with an office of the City's Department of Recreation and Parks,
Muscle Beach, paddle tennis courts, skate park, skate plaza and other
recreational facilities. This does not include the area west of the Boardwalk
immediately adjacent to this area. A map of the Recreation Area is available
for inspection and copying at the Police Substation or at the Recreation
Office.



 



   18.   Recreation Office. The Recreation Office is an office of the
City's Department of Recreation and Parks that is physically co-located with
the Police Substation at 17th Avenue and Ocean Front Walk.



 



   19.   Sunset. Sunset is the time at which the sun's disk descends
below the western horizon. The precise moment of Sunset can be determined by
reference to various, publicly available almanacs and newspapers of general
circulation in Los Angeles.



 



   20.   Vend or Vending. To sell, offer for sale, expose or display
for sale, solicit offers to purchase, or to barter Food, Goods or
Merchandise, or services in any area from a stand, table, Pushcart, motor
vehicle, bicycle, or by a Person with or without the use of any other device
or other method of transportation, or to require someone to pay a fee or to
set, negotiate, or establish a fee before providing Food, Goods or
Merchandise, or services, even if characterized by the Vendor as a Donation.



 



   21.   Vendor. A Vendor is a Person who Vends. Vendor includes the
employers, employees, and agents of a Vendor.



 



   22.   Westside of the Boardwalk. The area on the ocean-side of the
Boardwalk. A map depicting the Westside of the Boardwalk is available for
inspection and copying at the Police Substation or at the Recreation Office.



 



   B.   Findings and Purposes. The City Council of the City of Los
Angeles finds and declares as follows:



 



   1.   The Boardwalk and Recreation Area constitute a major tourist
attraction in the City, hosting approximately 16 million visitors annually.
The Boardwalk and Recreation Area are limited spaces geographically, located
in a narrow, linear City park that is bounded by the beach to the West and
private property to the East. The total width of the Boardwalk is only ten
feet in certain sections and only as wide as 50 feet in other limited areas.
The space is further constrained by the fact the Boardwalk and Recreation
Area serve as emergency ingress and egress routes.



 



   2.   Historically, visitors, including tourists, have been drawn to
Venice beach because, the Boardwalk and Recreation Area served as a
traditional public forum for performance and visual artists, as well as other
free speech activity. Vendors of Food, Goods and Merchandise viewed the large
crowds of visitors to the Boardwalk and Recreation Area as a pool of
potential customers and Vending proliferated. As the numbers of commercial
Vendors increased, the number of Performers and persons engaging in free
speech activities decreased both because of the limited amount of space and
because of the change in atmosphere from a vibrant center of art and
expression to a commercial "flea market" atmosphere. Competing interests for
space on the Boardwalk and Recreation Area intensified and physical
altercations for space and disturbances of the peace resulted in law
enforcement responses and arrests.



 



   3.   Unregulated Vending and Performances adversely affect the
historic character of the Boardwalk, hamper rather than encourage a wide
variety of performances, visual artists and other free speech activity, as
well as jeopardize the public safety of visitors to the Boardwalk, resulting
in an economic and cultural loss to the City. Therefore, the Boardwalk
requires reasonable time, place, and manner restrictions to retain its unique
historic character as a center of performance, art, and other free speech
activity, preserve its status as a tourist attraction, protect the commercial
life of the Boardwalk, and ensure the safety and enjoyment of residents,
visitors, advocates, artists, performers, and Vendors alike. Due to its
unique historical, geographical, and physical characteristics, the Boardwalk
requires its own set of rules and regulations different from other public
parks in the City.



 



   4.   Unregulated Vending and Performing harms the Boardwalk, and
therefore must be regulated because:



 



   (a)   Tourists are deterred from visiting or shopping at the
Boardwalk as they are constantly approached, solicited, and sometimes
harassed by unregulated Vendors and Performers. Regulation is therefore
necessary to manage the time, place, and manner of Vending on the Boardwalk,
in order to ensure that tourists are not deterred from visiting or shopping
at the Boardwalk;



 



   (b)   The amount of space on the Boardwalk that is available for
performing and visual artists and for political advocacy is limited due to
the size of the Boardwalk and the large crowds of visitors that the Boardwalk
attracts. Due to the limited amount of space, unregulated Vending along the
Boardwalk prevents many Persons from engaging in performance, art, advocacy
or other expressive activities. The lack of regulations for Vending,
Performing and noise has resulted in conflicting claims for the available
spaces. Numerous altercations occurred, in competition for locations and
amounts of space, during time periods in which the City lacked regulations
for noise and a system for allocating available space for Vending and
Performing. Frequently, the altercations became violent requiring law
enforcement response to preserve the public peace. Persons wishing to secure
spaces often arrive prior to dawn and create loud noise in setting up their
displays, thereby disturbing the public peace, including the peace of the
residents on and near the Boardwalk, and requiring a law enforcement
response. Unregulated, the Boardwalk became a place where only the strongest
and earliest arrivals could secure space to exercise their rights of free
expression without threat of intimidation. Regulation is necessary,
therefore, to manage the use of the limited space on the Boardwalk to prevent
conflicting claims for the space and to allocate the limited space available
fairly to all who desire to use it for lawful purposes;



 



   (c)   Tables, Pushcarts, stands, and certain equipment of Vendors
and Performers impede the orderly movement of pedestrian traffic along the
narrow Boardwalk and may make the Boardwalk unsafe for pedestrians by
limiting the City's ability to effect crowd management and control. Certain
equipment of Vendors and Performers contributes to visual clutter and blight,
especially when it impacts the ability of Boardwalk visitors to see the
Pacific Ocean. Regulating the use of equipment by Vendors and Performers
therefore is necessary to manage the orderly movement of pedestrian traffic.
Regulation also is necessary to avoid injuries to pedestrians as well as
ensure the existence of emergency and non-emergency ingress and egress
between the beach and the Boardwalk;



 



   (d)   The Vendors, Performers and their equipment impede the ingress
and egress of emergency and public safety vehicles by creating physical
obstacles to emergency response and administration of aid to those in need of
immediate medical attention and to victims of criminal activity. Regulation
is therefore necessary to ensure that Vendors, Performers and their equipment
do not interfere with emergency response vehicles that provide assistance to
individuals with medical needs and victims of criminal activity;



 



   (e)   Unregulated Vending has resulted in the sale of stolen,
defective or counterfeit merchandise. Regulation therefore is necessary to
protect the public and the Boardwalk commercial life;



 



   (f)   Unregulated Vending of personal services has resulted in
activities that are illegal and harmful to human health, including the
offering of services by unlicensed Vendors of services for which a license is
required by the State of California, physical assaults and the application of
toxic chemicals to Persons;



 



   (g)   Unregulated Vending causes visual clutter/blight along the
Boardwalk, impedes views of the beach and the Pacific Ocean, and threatens
the City's ability to attract tourists and preserve businesses along the
Boardwalk. Regulation therefore is necessary to manage the number of Vendors,
the size of their equipment and displays, and the location of Vending
activity;



 



   (h)   Unregulated Vending creates unnecessary, excessive and
annoying noise on the Boardwalk, is detrimental to the public health, welfare
and safety and contrary to the public interest, harms residents, the
commercial life of the Boardwalk and the historic character of the Boardwalk,
and diminishes the quality of life for those who visit, live or work on or
near the Boardwalk. Regulation therefore is necessary to establish
restrictions on noise at the Boardwalk; and



 



   (i)   The Recreation Area is a site that is uniquely suitable to and
frequently used for events that require pre-planning and advanced notice. The
Recreation Area is the location of the Police Substation where vehicles
require the ability for unobstructed ingress and egress. Due to the size,
shape, and physical attributes of the Recreation Area (including a skate park
and plaza, paddle tennis courts and exercise equipment), it is also a site
uniquely suitable to and used by many Persons for skateboarding, paddle
tennis, and other sports and exercise. The Recreation Area is the home of
historic "Muscle Beach", a popular tourist attraction. Muscle Beach is world
renowned as home of physical fitness advocates and body builders, including
Jack La Lanne (considered to be the father of the modern fitness movement),
Arnold Schwarzenegger, Franco Columbo and Dave Draper.



 



   C.   Beach Vending Prohibition. Except as specifically allowed in
this Section, no Person shall engage in Vending upon any public beach lands
or properties adjoining the waterfront of the Pacific Ocean, or upon any
immediately adjacent Boardwalk, sidewalk or public way between the southerly
boundary of the City of Santa Monica and the northerly boundary of the City
of El Segundo and between the northwesterly boundary of the City of Santa
Monica and the northwesterly boundary of the City of Los Angeles.



 



   D.   Vending and Performing on Designated Spaces.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 183,170, Eff. 9/15/14.)  To address the findings and purposes set forth
in this Section, the City has created reasonable time, place, and manner
restrictions on Vending and noise, as well as to facilitate Performing.  To
preserve the Boardwalk's rich history of fostering new artists, performance
and other free speech activity, the City has divided the available space on
the Boardwalk into 205 areas, known as Designated Spaces, where:



 



   1.   Persons can engage in traditional expressive speech and
petitioning activities, and can Vend the following expressive items:
newspapers, leaflets, pamphlets, bumper stickers, patches and/or buttons.



 



   2.   Persons can Vend the following items, which have been created,
written or composed by the Vendor or Performer: books, audio, video or other
recordings of their performances, paintings, photographs, prints, sculptures
or any other item that is inherently communicative and is of nominal value or
utility apart from its communication.



 



   3.   Although an item may have some expressive purpose, it will be
deemed to have more than nominal utility apart from its communication if it
has a common and dominant non-expressive purpose.  Examples of items that
have more than nominal utility apart from their communication and thus are
subject to the Vending ban under the provisions of this Section, include, but
are not limited to, the following: housewares, appliances, articles of
clothing, sunglasses, auto parts, oils, incense, perfume, crystals, lotions,
candles, jewelry, toys and stuffed animals.



 



   4.   Vendors may not display items that may not be Vended pursuant
to this Subsection.



 



   5.   Vendors may not provide free of charge any item that may not be
Vended pursuant to this Subsection if the purchase of an item that may be
lawfully Vended pursuant to this Subsection is a condition of receiving the
free item.



 



   6.   Performers can Perform.



 



   7.   Any Vendor conducting lawful Vending under Subsections D.1. and
D.2., above, must comply with applicable tax and licensing requirements.



 



   8.   Section 42.13 is not applicable to the First Amendment
protected vending listed in this section. (Added by Ord. No. 185,900, Eff.
12/6/18.)



 



   E.   Allocation and Use of Designated Spaces. The City's Board of
Recreation and Parks Commissioners shall designate a total of 205 spaces on
the Boardwalk, referred to as the "Designated Spaces". The Designated Spaces
will be available for use in accordance with a first-come, first-served
system or any other legally permissible allocation system adopted by the
Board at a duly noticed public hearing at which the public is provided an
opportunity to comment, as required by the Ralph M. Brown Act, posted at the
Recreation Office for at least ten (10) days prior to implementation.



 



   The 205 Designated Spaces shall be made available for the activities
described in Subsection D. above. Five of the Designated Spaces shall be
double-sized, large act spaces for Performers whose number of Performers plus
audience can be anticipated to exceed 25 Persons. Two of the regular-sized
Designated Spaces shall be made available for Persons engaging in any
activity that is described in Subsection D. and who are predominantly giving
away Food. The remainder of the regular-sized, Designated Spaces shall be
made available for Persons engaging in any exempt activity described in
Subsection D.



 



   Persons using the 205 Designated Spaces are subject to, and shall
comply with, the following restrictions and the Program Rules adopted by the
Board:



 



   1.   The five double-sized, large act Performer spaces historically
have been used by Performers (such as acrobats) whose performances require
more space than is available in a single-sized, Designated Space, and have
been used by Performers who attract large crowds due to the nature of their
performances. The five, double-sized, large act Performer spaces are the only
spaces able to safely accommodate large scale performances or a large
audience and, therefore, in order to facilitate a variety of Performances in
these double-sized spaces, the Performer spaces are subject to a rotation
requirement, whereby each Performer using one of the five Performer spaces
shall relinquish the space on the hour, every hour, whenever another
Performer is waiting to use the Performer space in which the Performer is
Performing.



 



   2.   No Person shall Vend any item in a Designated Space, except as
expressly authorized by Subsection D.



 



   3.   No Person shall place or allow anything in any Designated Space
to extend beyond the boundaries of the Designated Space nor place anything
adjacent to the Designated Space nor obstruct or impede the access areas
between the Designated Spaces.



 



   4.   No Person shall Vend in, Perform in, or place or allow any item
to extend into a designated emergency ingress and egress area. A map
depicting the emergency ingress and egress areas is available for inspection
and copying at the Police Substation or at the Recreation Office.



 



   5.   The City desires to balance the goal of avoiding visual clutter
and blight against the need of Performers and Vendors exempt pursuant to
Subsection D., above, to have shade from the sun. Additionally, the City
desires to balance the goal of avoiding visual clutter and blight against the
desire of Performers and Vendors exempt pursuant to Subsection D., above to
use equipment common to exempted Performing and Vending activities.
Accordingly, the following rules relating to shade, Performing and Vending
equipment: are adopted as follows: No Person shall place or allow any item
(except an umbrella, sun shade, easel, display board or microphone stand)
exceeding four feet above ground in any Designated Space, nor shall any
Person cause or allow a Designated Space to be enclosed. An umbrella or sun
shade shall not exceed 8 feet above ground and shall be open on all sides. An
easel, display board or microphone stand shall not exceed 6 feet in height.
Persons shall not hang objects of any nature on or from any umbrella, sun
shade, easel or display board.



 



   6.   No Person occupying a Designated Space shall leave that
Designated Space for a period longer than 45 consecutive minutes without
first removing all items from the Designated Space.



 



   7.   No Person shall occupy more than one single regular-sized or
double-sized Designated Space at any given time, nor shall any Person solicit
another Person to obtain or occupy a Designated Space on his or her behalf.



 



   8.   No Person shall purchase, sell, barter or exchange any
Designated Space with any other Person.



 



   9.   No Person shall set up or set down items in, take down items
from or block, or attempt to reserve a Designated Space between Sunset and
9:00 a.m.



 



   10.   Any umbrella used in connection with the activities authorized
in the Designated Spaces must be adequately secured in an upright position
with a diameter no greater than 8 feet.



 



   11.   Designated Spaces must be kept clean and free of litter and
debris. No permanent markings shall be made in any Designated Space. Any
temporary marking made in any Designated Space must be removed from the
Designated Space when the Person using the Designated Space vacates the
Designated Space or by Sunset, whichever is earlier.



 



   12.   No open flames combustible fuel or gasoline-fueled generators
are allowed in any Designated Space. Electric cords may not be connected
outside the assigned space or to any City or private power source.



 



   F.   Special Rules for Other Areas of the Boardwalk.



 



   1.   Areas Outside of the Designated Spaces, Pagodas, and Recreation
Area.



 



   (a)   Areas where use of equipment is prohibited. The activities
described in Subsection D. may occur in all areas covered by this Section
outside the Designated Spaces, Pagodas, and Recreation Area, provided that no
Person may set up a display table, easel, stand, equipment or other
furniture, use a Pushcart or other vehicle or place any item on the property
defined in Subsection C. except as provided in Paragraph (b) of this
Subdivision.



 



   (b)   Areas where limited use of equipment is permitted. The
activities described in Subsection D., but not including Vending, may occur
on the Westside of the Boardwalk outside the Designated Spaces, Pagodas,
Recreation Area and other areas designed as access points for or constitute
routes for emergency ingress and egress. In connection with permissible
activities in the area on the Westside of the Boardwalk, outside the
Designated Spaces, Pagodas, Recreation Area and other areas designated for
emergency ingress and egress, a Person may set up a display table, easel,
stand, equipment or other furniture, a Pushcart or other vehicle, or place an
item on the ground in the areas where limited use of equipment is permitted,
subject to reasonable size and height restrictions set forth in paragraph
E.5., herein, provided the equipment or the activity associated with the
equipment does not materially impede or obstruct pedestrian or vehicular
traffic or areas designed for emergency ingress and egress. Nothing in this
paragraph shall be construed to allow a person to use or set up equipment in
connection with Vending.



 



   (c)   The areas in which use of equipment is prohibited and areas in
which limited use of equipment is permitted is available for inspection and
copying at Police Substation or Recreation Office.



 



   2.   The Recreation Area.



 



   (a)   The Recreation Area is a limited space containing a confluence
of public safety ingress and egress routes, and at which pre-planned events,
recreation activities and tourism occur. The City's Board of Recreation and
Parks Commissioners may allocate use of the Recreation Area through the
adoption of Program Rules detailing an advance reservation system or any
other legally permissible allocation system, and the advance reservation
system or other legally permissible allocation system contained in the
Program Rules will be adopted by the Board at a duly noticed public hearing
at which the public is provided an opportunity to comment, as required by the
Ralph M. Brown Act, and made effective after reasonable public notice by
posting at the Recreation Office for at least ten (10) days prior to
implementation. A copy of the Program Rules shall be available for inspection
and copying at the Police Substation or the Recreation Office.



 



   (b)   No Vending, and no display tables, easels, stands, equipment,
Pushcarts or other vehicles, or structures shall be allowed in the Recreation
Area except as may be expressly authorized by the Board in connection with
the Board's pre-approval of the use of the Recreation Area.



 



   (c)   No Person shall use the Recreation Area or any part of the
Recreation Area while the Recreation Area or that part of the Recreation Area
has been reserved, set aside, is being used, set up, maintained or designed
for a specific recreational purpose, park purpose or event authorized by the
City through the Department or Board. When the City, through the Department
or Board, has reserved, intends to use, set up, maintain or designate the
Recreation Area or any part of the Recreation Area for a specific
recreational purpose, park purpose or event, the Department will make
available for inspection and copying at the Police Substation or Recreation
Office information describing the nature of the authorized park purpose or
event, the location of the park purpose or event and the times during which
the park purpose or event will take place.



 



   G.   Use of City Property for Vending, Performing, or Display
Prohibited. No Person shall use or obstruct access to any City-owned or
maintained property or equipment, including, but not limited to, street
furniture, benches, planters, trash receptacles, Pagodas or other structures
or equipment installed on public property, for Vending, Performing, or
display of anything whatsoever.



 



   H.   Noise Regulation for all Property on or Abutting the Boardwalk.



 



   1.   No Person whether on the Boardwalk or on private or public
property abutting the Boardwalk shall create any noise, or allow the creation
of any noise, which causes the noise level to exceed the following Lmax
levels between 9:00 a.m. and Sunset:



 



   (a)   75 dBA, when measured at a minimum distance of 25 feet from
the source of the noise; or,



 



   (b)   96 dBA, when measured at a minimum distance of one foot from
the source of the noise.



 



   When Lmax levels are measured for noise emanating from a building
located on private property adjacent to the Boardwalk, the measurement shall
be taken from the property line dividing the private property and the
Boardwalk.



 



   2.   Nothing in this Section shall be construed as prohibiting the
City from enforcing other provisions of this Code regulating noise and sound
levels. At all times, the noise and sound provisions of Chapter 11 of the Los
Angeles Municipal Code, Articles 1 through 5, inclusive, and Los Angeles
Municipal Code Sections 63.44 B.6., 41.42, 41.57, 53.63 shall apply.



 



   3.   No Person shall interfere with or resist the taking of any
noise measurement authorized by this Section.



 



   I.   Violations.  Any violation of this section shall be punishable
pursuant to Section 42.13 D. of this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 185,900,
Eff. 12/6/18.)



 



   J.   Other Applicable Opening and Closing Hours. Nothing in this
Section amends or extends the opening or closing hours otherwise established
by law for any area subject to this Section.



 



   K.   Posted Notice. The City shall post signs providing notice of
the existence of rules for the allocation and use of the Designated Spaces,
Recreation Area and Boardwalk areas near the entrances to the Designated
Spaces and the Recreation Area. A complete copy of this Section shall be
available for inspection and copying at the Police Substation or at the
Recreation Office.



 



   L.   Severability. If any portion, subsection, sentence, clause or
phrase of this Section is for any reason held by a court of competent
jurisdiction to be invalid, such a decision shall not affect the validity of
the remaining portions of this Ordinance. The City Council hereby declares
that it would have passed this Section and each portion or subsection,
sentence, clause and phrase herein, irrespective of the fact that any one or
more portions, subsections, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared invalid.



 



 



SEC. 42.19.  MAGAZINE SUBSCRIPTIONS – SALES FOR FUTURE DELIVERY – WHERE
SOLICITATION PROHIBITED.



 



   (a)   No person shall, on any public street, sidewalk or parkway, in
this city, or in any doorway or entrance way immediately abutting thereon,
solicit the sale of any subscription to any magazine, periodical or other
publication, or the sale of any tangible personal property for delivery at a
subsequent time.



 



   The foregoing section at one time had a Subsection (b) which provided
that the section should cease to be effective six months after the cessation
of hostilities in the war. However, such subsection was repealed and the
section is now enforceable as it stands. The cases cited below, although
tried before the repeal of Subsection (b), are still applicable to the
present ordinance.



 



   The ordinance is not an unlawful interference with interstate commerce
and it does not interfere with freedom of speech and the press, although the
portion which prohibits solicitation from doorways and entrance ways abutting
on the streets may be invalid for the reasons held to invalidate a similar
ordinance in McKay Jewelers v. Bowron, 19 Cal. 2nd 595, but that provision is
plainly severable so that if one is struck down it does not necessarily drag
the other down with it.



   People v. Carver, CR A 2119.



   See also Pittsford v. City of Los Angeles, 50 Cal. App. 2d. 25,32.



   In re Mares, 75 A.C.A. 909.



   citing: People v. Carver supra, which opinion is adopted by the
District Court of Appeals.



   See also: Freedom of Speech and Commercial Solicitation, 39 Cal. Law
Rev. 655.



 



 



SEC. 42.20.  FOOD AND DRINK ESTABLISHMENTS – ANNOYANCE OF CUSTOMERS
FORBIDDEN.



 



   (a)   It shall be unlawful, in any place of business where food or
drink is sold to be consumed upon the premises, for any person who loafs or
loiters about such place, or who is employed therein, to beg, solicit or
importune any patron or customer of, or visitor in such establishment to
purchase any article of food or drink for the one begging, soliciting or
importuning, or to be consumed by any employee, frequenter, habitue, or any
vagrant or idle person about such place, and no person shall enter any such
place, or remain therein, for the purpose of so begging, soliciting or
importuning patrons, customers or visitors therein to purchase articles of
food or drink. (Amended by Ord. No. 107,330, Eff. 6/3/56.)



 



   Patrons of places of business where food or drink is sold for
consumption on the premises may be protected from begging and like
solicitations by legislation such as 42.20.



   In re Short. No. H.C. 11310, Superior Court.



 



   (b)   Any person who owns, manages or otherwise controls any such
place of business who himself begs, solicits, or importunes, or permits or
allows other persons to beg, solicit or importune patrons, customers or
visitors thereof to purchase food or drink for himself, the ones begging,
soliciting or importuning, or for employees, frequenters, habitues or any
idle or vagrant persons about such place, is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Amended by Ord. No. 107,330, Eff. 6/3/56.)



 



 



 



ARTICLE 3
GAMBLING, FRAUD AND DECEIT (*)



 



   * Note: By Ordinance No. 82055, any “machine, contrivance, appliance,
device, game, ticket, chance, share, interest, instrument or article
operated, used, kept, possessed, placed, or maintained” in violation of the
provisions of Sections 43.00 to 43.16, inclusive, of this Code is declared to
be a nuisance and subject to abatement as provided in said ordinance.



 



 



Section



43.00   Definitions.



43.01   Gambling – Dice Shaking.



43.01.1   Bingo for Charitable Purposes.



43.05.1   Coin Games and Similar Contrivances – Possession Prohibited.



43.05.2   Games – Unlawful Possession – Declared to Be a Nuisance.



43.12   Lottery – Visiting.



43.13   Exhibiting Gambling Equipment.



43.13.1   Visiting Gambling Rooms.



43.13.2   Present at Gambling.



43.13.3   Gambling House.



43.17   Taxicabs – Cars for Hire – Defrauding.



43.18   Taxicab – Misrepresenting Identity.



43.20   Water Mains – Interference With.



43.21   Civil Service – Giving False Information.



43.22   Clearing House Certificates – Imitating.



43.24   Shoe Shine Parlors – Signs Required.



43.25   Restaurant – Menus Required.



43.26   Retail Grocery Price Marking.



43.28   Tort Claims – Soliciting.



43.29   Employers – Requiring Employees to Wear Service Uniforms.



43.30   Fortune Telling.



43.31   Fortune Telling – Exemptions.



43.32   Petitions – Misrepresentation of Contents.



43.39   Examinations – Impersonation Prohibited.



 



 



SEC. 43.00.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   For the purpose of this article the following words and phrases are
defined and shall be construed as hereinafter set out, unless it shall be
apparent from the context that they have a different meaning:



 



   “Chain Letter Scheme” shall mean and include any system, scheme or
device, whether operated by letters, circulars, cards or other written or
printed instrumentalities, or orally, or by any other system whatsoever,
whereby it is represented, proposed or held out, that upon the payment,
deposit, transmission, donation or surrender of any sum of money, or any
other thing of value, the person so paying, depositing, transmitting,
donating or surrendering money, or other thing of value, may receive in
return therefor money, or any other thing of value, in an amount greater than
the sum so paid, deposited, transmitted, donated, or surrendered by such
person; such receipt of money, or other thing of value, to be in a sum
greater than the value of the money, or other thing of value, paid,
deposited, transmitted, donated or surrendered; being dependent, either
wholly or in part, upon that person’s paying, depositing, transmitting,
donating or surrendering money, or any other thing of value; determination of
when such persons shall receive such greater sum of money, or other thing of
value, being effected by any system or scheme whereby the names of persons
paying, depositing, transmitting, donating or surrendering any sum of money,
or other thing of value, are arranged so that the payment, donation or
contribution to them depends upon a scheme whereby their names appear at the
top or other designated place upon a list according to the number, order or
rotation of such persons who have, or who may thereafter pay, deposit,
donate, transmit or surrender any sum of money, or other thing of value, to
participate therein.



 



   “Lottery Ticket” shall mean any ticket, bill, scroll, paper,
handbill, print, statement, chance share, memorandum, figure, character,
interest, instrument or any other object purporting or understood to be or to
represent any interest whatsoever in or depending upon the event of any
lottery whether the same is used or intended for use or has been used or
intended for use in a lottery drawing.



 



   “Lottery Device” shall mean any tool, brush, punch, stamp, die,
cut, instrument or device used or understood or intended to be used to
contrive, prepare, set up, propose, draw, print, stamp, mark, write or
distribute any lottery or lottery ticket or by which the outcome, results or
bets of any lottery or lottery drawing are prepared, drawn, printed, stamped,
marked or written.



 



   The words “intended to be used” employed in the definition of
lottery-device in Section 43.00 are descriptive of the device rather than
descriptive of the possession.



   People v. Jackson, CR A 1588.



 



   The failure to state the objects embraced in the definition of
“lottery-device,” if not attacked by demurrer, is not prejudicial to the
defendant.



   People v. Sielski, CR A 1624.



 



   “Weighing or Measuring Instrument” shall mean any scale, balance,
receptacle, container, device or other apparatus or equipment by which the
gravity, quantity, extent or volume of anything is compared or determined.



 



 



SEC. 43.01.  GAMBLING – DICE SHAKING.



 



   The following initiative ordinance is Ordinance No. 36674, approved
June 5, 1917, by more than a majority of qualified electors of this City. The
placing of this ordinance in this Code shall not be construed as altering,
amending or repealing said ordinance. Any violation of the provisions of
Ordinance No. 36674 shall not be deemed to be a violation of any of the
provisions of this Code, but shall be deemed to be a violation of said
Ordinance and punishable as therein provided.



 




“ORDINANCE NO. 36,674 (New Series)




 




   An Ordinance prohibiting the shaking of dice for money or merchandise
and prohibiting the keeping or permitting to be kept places for playing
certain games in the City of Los Angeles not prohibited by Section 330 or
330a of the Penal Code, and prohibiting the playing or betting at such games.




 




   The People of the City of Los Angeles do ordain as follows:




 




   Section 1. It shall be unlawful for any person, either as principal,
agent, employee or otherwise, to keep, conduct or maintain within the City of
Los Angeles, any house, room, apartment or place used in whole or in part as
a place where any game not mentioned in Section 330 or 330a of the Penal Code
of the State of California is played, conducted, dealt or carried on, with
cards, dice, billiard balls, pool balls, cues or other device, for money,
checks, chips, credit or any other representative of value or for any
merchandise or any other thing of value.




 




   Section 2. It shall be unlawful for any person, either as principal,
agent, employee or otherwise, knowingly to permit any house, room, apartment
or place owned by him or under his charge or control, in said City of Los
Angeles, to be used in whole or in part for playing, conducting, dealing or
carrying on therein any game not mentioned in Section 330 or 330a of the
Penal Code of the State of California, with cards, dice, billiard balls, pool
balls, cues or other device, for money, checks, chips, credit or any other
representative of value or for any merchandise or any other thing of value.




 




   Section 3. It shall be unlawful for any person to play or bet at or
against any game not mentioned in Section 330 or 330a of the Penal Code of
the State of California, which is played, conducted, dealt or carried on with
cards, dice, billiard balls, pool balls, cues, or other device, for money,
checks, chips, credit or any other representative of value or for any
merchandise or any other thing of value.




 




   Section 4. That any person, firm or corporation violating any of the
provisions of this Ordinance shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and on
conviction thereof shall be punishable by a fine of not less than ten
($10.00) dollars or more than One Thousand ($1,000.00) dollars, or by
imprisonment in the County Jail for a period of not more than six (6) months,
or by both such fine and imprisonment. (Amended by Ord. No. 160,063, Eff
7/28/85.)




 




   Section 5. That Ordinance No. 18,984 (New Series), entitled “An
Ordinance prohibiting the keeping of places for playing certain games and
prohibiting the playing or betting of such games,” approved October 15th
1909, be and the same is hereby repealed; provided, however, that such repeal
shall not affect any prosecution for violation of any provision of said
Ordinance No. 18,984 (New Series) committed prior to the repeal thereof. That
all other ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with this ordinance
be and the same are hereby repealed.




 




   I hereby certify that the foregoing ordinance was submitted for
approval to a vote of the qualified electors of the City of Los Angeles,
pursuant to the provisions of the Charter of said City, at the General
Municipal Election held in said City on Tuesday, June 5, 1917, and that said
ordinance was approved by more than a majority of the qualified electors of
said City voting thereon at said election.




 



   CHAS L. WILDE



   City Clerk of the City of Los Angeles”



 



 



SEC. 43.01.1.  BINGO FOR CHARITABLE PURPOSES.



 



   Notwithstanding the provisions of Ordinance No. 36,674 (New Series),
now set forth as Section 43.01 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code, the City
Council is hereby authorized to adopt an ordinance legalizing bingo games for
charitable purposes in the City of Los Angeles in accordance with state law.
(Ord. No. 149,508, approved by voters April 7, 1977.)



 



 



SEC. 43.05.1.  COIN GAMES AND SIMILAR CONTRIVANCES – POSSESSION PROHIBITED.



 



   A.   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following
terms are defined as hereinafter set forth:



 



   1.   “Pin Game”: Any table, cabinet, or mechanism equipped for
the playing of any game whereby any marble, ball, pellet or other moving
object is propelled, released, rolled or shot along, over or above a surface
set with pins, pegs or other obstructions or irregularities which deflect or
impede the course of the moving object or which may divert or direct it
beyond the control of the player.



 



   2.   “Marble Game”: Any table, cabinet or stand equipped for the
playing of a game whereby marbles or balls are, with the aid of a mechanical
plunger or other affixed device, propelled, released, shot or rolled so as to
drop or come to rest in holes, slots, cups or traps, resulting in a score or
tally being electrically or otherwise registered or shown which score or
tally depends upon the course followed or point reached by the marble or ball
or upon the contact points touched by it along its course, or upon any
combination of such factors.



 



   3.   The phrase “Any game similar to a marble game” shall mean:
“Balley-Alley” and any other miniature mechanical bowling game device, by
whatever name called; any table, cabinet or mechanical device equipped for
the playing of any game whereby any marble, ball, pellet or any moving object
is propelled, rolled, shot or released toward a goal, pin, set of pins, or
other objective by means of any plunger, ejector, mechanical bat, mechanical
hand or by means of any other striking or releasing mechanism which is
affixed or attached to the table or cabinet, or which is an integral part of
the mechanical device or which is mechanically manipulated, controlled or
guided, and which game is so contrived that, at the conclusion of the
operation or play thereof the score or result of play thereof is visible or
otherwise discernible so as to permit or make practicable the playing off or
the awarding of a prize or reward upon the operation or play of the game.



 



   4.   “Claw, Hook, or Grab Machine”: Any amusement machine or
device so designed that articles placed or heaped therein for the purpose of
the game may be grabbed, hooked, or otherwise displaced, recovered or removed
by the operation of any contrivance simulating in miniature a power shovel,
clam shell, dragline or similar excavating tool or machine.



 



   5.   “Horse Racing Machine”: Any mechanically operated amusement
machine or device contrived to simulate in miniature the running of a horse
race or any other race run by beasts, humans or machines, or which is
contrived to put in motion any number of objects or symbols which then do, or
appear to, run or move against each other in the manner of a miniature race,
or which is designed to represent, by symbols, the running of any race and
the order of the finish thereof.



 



   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, maintain or
possess in any place of business or in any place of public resort:



 



   1.   Any pin game, any marble game or any game similar to a marble
game, any claw, hook or grab machine or any horse race machine, the operation
of which game or machine is controlled, permitted or made available by
placing therein a coin, plug, disc, key or token, or which is let for use,
operation or play upon the payment or delivery of anything of value therefor,
or upon the making of any purchase.



 



   2.   Any mechanical device or mechanically operated contrivance for
the playing of any game of chance, the use or operation of which is
controlled, permitted or made available by placing therein any coin, plug,
disk, key or token, or which is let for use, operation or play upon the
payment or delivery of anything of value therefor, or upon the making of any
purchase.



 



   C.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to the keeping,
possessing or exhibiting of any such mechanical contrivance or device at or
in any mercantile store in which such mechanical contrivances or devices are
kept solely for sale and which mechanical contrivances or devices members of
the public are not permitted or allowed to operate, manipulate or play except
as incident to a demonstration for the purpose of sale.



 



   This section is not unconstitutional, although it pertains to machines
in which a degree of skill may be developed.



   People v. Hambro, CR A 1856



   People v. Eisenberg CR A 1900



   People v. Chuba CR A 2391



 



 



SEC. 43.05.2.  GAMES – UNLAWFUL POSSESSION – DECLARED TO BE A NUISANCE.



 



   A.   Any machine, contrivance, appliance, device game, ticket,
chance, share, interest, instrument or article operated, used, kept,
possessed, placed or maintained in violation of the provisions of:



 



   1.   Section 330a of the Penal Code of the State of California; or



 



   2.   Any section enumerated in Part I, Title 9, Chapter 9 of the
Penal Code of the State of California: or



 



   3.   Sections 43.00 to 43.16, inclusive, of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code; is hereby declared to be a nuisance and shall be subject to
abatement as hereinafter provided.



 



   B.   When any person has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any
violation of any ordinance of this City or of any law of this state, which
offense involved the operation, use, maintenance or possession of any article
declared by Subsection A hereof to be a nuisance, then such article shall be
destroyed by the Chief of Police after the plea or after the judgment of
conviction has become final.



 



   If any article subject to destruction as hereinabove provided is in the
custody of any court within this City, the Chief of Police shall cause an
application to be made to the judge of said court for an order releasing such
article to him in order that he may comply with this section.



 



 



SEC. 43.12.  LOTTERY – VISITING.



 



   No person shall visit, attend or resort to any office, house, room,
tenement or other place where any lottery is contrived, prepared, set up,
proposed, drawn or conducted or where lottery tickets are sold, offered for
sale, given away, furnished or transferred.



 



   A similar ordinance was held constitutional as a reasonable exercise of
the police power.



   People v. Aguinaldo, CR A 2770.



 



 



SEC. 43.13.  EXHIBITING GAMBLING EQUIPMENT.



 



   No person shall possess, exhibit or expose to view, when two or more
other persons are present, any part of any faro box, any pique blocks or
pique cards, any roulette, fan tan or craps equipment or any gambling layout
whatever in any barred or barricaded house or room, or in any place built or
protected in such a manner as to make it difficult of access or ingress to
police officers.



 



 



SEC. 43.13.1.  VISITING GAMBLING ROOMS.



 



   No person shall resort to, attend or be in any house, room or other
place where there is any gambling device, equipment or paraphernalia, which
place is barred, barricaded, built or protected in such a manner as to make
ingress or access difficult to police officers.



 



   A substantially similar ordinance was held not in violation of any
constitutional privileges nor unreasonable or oppressive because of
infringement upon personal rights. “Barred and Barricaded” do not include
ordinary private residences or rooms where doors are locked or bolted in the
ordinary method.



   Matter of Ah Chung, 136 Cal. 678 CR A 3440.



 



 



SEC. 43.13.2.  PRESENT AT GAMBLING.



   (Added by Ord. No. 111,074, Eff. 5/3/58).



 



   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to visit, frequent, or be
present at or within any house, room, apartment, stand or place used in whole
or in part as a gambling house, or any place where any game is played,
conducted, dealt or carried on with cards, dice, or other device for money,
checks, chips, credit, pennants, cigars, candy, merchandise or other valuable
thing, or representative of value; provided, however, this ordinance shall
not apply to any police officer while in the exercise of his duties as such
officer, nor to any person whose presence in any such place is necessary in
the course of his lawful business.



 



 



SEC. 43.13.3.  GAMBLING HOUSE.



   (Added by Ord. No. 138,828, Eff. 8/10/69.)



 



   (a)   Gambling House Defined:  Gambling house means any building,
house, room, or other structure used in whole or in part for conducting
illegal gambling.



 



   (b)   Gambling House Prohibited.  No person shall keep, conduct or
maintain any gambling house.



 



   (c)   Permitting Use as Gambling House.  No person shall knowingly
allow or permit any building, house, room or other structure owned or
occupied by him or under his charge or control to be used as a gambling house.



 



   (d)   Violations Are Misdemeanors and Public Nuisances.  Every
person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and all gambling houses are declared to constitute a
public nuisance.



 



   (e)   Nuisances May Be Abated.  Any public nuisance maintained in
violation of this section may be enjoined, prevented or abated as provided by
law.



 



 



SEC. 43.17.  TAXICABS – CARS FOR HIRE – DEFRAUDING.



 



   No person shall hire any automobile for hire or taxicab with intent to
defraud the person from whom it is hired or refuse to pay the legal fare of
any automobile for hire or taxicab after having hired the same.



 



 



SEC. 43.18.  TAXICAB – MISREPRESENTING IDENTITY.



 



   No owner, driver or agent soliciting patronage for any automobile for
hire or taxicab shall misrepresent by word, sign, hat band, insignia I or
badge the true identity of the vehicle for which such patronage is sought



 



 



SEC. 43.20.  WATER MAINS – INTERFERENCE WITH.



 



   (a)   No person shall make, use or maintain any connection in any
manner with any water main, service connection pipe, fire hydrant stub pipe,
conduit or flume owned, controlled or operated by any person or municipality
authorized by law to distribute water for domestic or other use, without the
knowledge of consent of such person or municipality authorized by law to so
distribute water; provided, however, that nothing contained herein shall be
deemed to prevent the connection of pipes, hose or other means of using water
to lawfully installed service pipes for the use of water lawfully passing
through a meter installed for the measuring of such water.



 



   (b)   No person shall turn on, or use water for domestic or other
purposes by means of any connection with any water main, water meter, service
connection pipe, fire hydrant, stub pipe, conduit, flume or other appliance
or method whereby water is withdrawn from the possession, custody and control
of any person or municipality authorized by law to furnish water for domestic
or other use, without first securing the consent of such person or
municipality so to do.



 



   (c)   No person shall tamper in any manner with any water meter,
weir or other water measuring device installed for the purpose of measuring
water used or intended to be used for domestic or other purposes; open any
shut-off valve or other connection between such meter or measuring device and
any water main, or water supply pipe so that water may pass into or through
said meter or measuring device; or in any manner change the connection
between the water discharge outlets and appliances upon private property and
the water mains or other pipes or methods of conveying water by any person or
municipality authorized by law to furnish water for domestic or other use in
such manner that water may be used or drawn from any water main or water
supply pipe without passing through a meter installed for measuring such
water, without the knowledge or consent of such person or municipality.



 



 



SEC. 43.21.  CIVIL SERVICE – GIVING FALSE INFORMATION.



 



   No person shall knowingly or intentionally give any misinformation or
false information, or convey any false impression relative to his or her
character, experience or past conduct in any application filed in connection
with any examination for the filling of any position in the classified Civil
Service of this City.



 



 



SEC. 43.22.  CLEARING HOUSE CERTIFICATES – IMITATING.



 



   No person shall make, print, write, engrave, lithograph, sell, give
away, distribute, or have in his possession any paper, instrument, document,
circular, card, hand bill, dodger or advertisement which resembles or is made
in imitation of, in size, form, dimensions, wording or general appearance,
any certificate which has heretofore been, or may hereafter be issued,
distributed or circulated by or under the authority of the Los Angeles
Clearing House Association, provided that the provisions of this section
shall not apply to certificates issued, distributed or circulated by or under
the authority of the Los Angeles Clearing House Association.



 



 



SEC. 43.24.  SHOE SHINE PARLORS – SIGNS REQUIRED.



 



   No person shall operate, conduct, control, manage or otherwise carry on
any shoe shine parlor or stand in the City of Los Angeles unless there is
posted and maintained therein or thereon in a conspicuous place, clearly
visible by the public, a sign listing the price of each and every service
rendered by such business, and no such person shall charge or attempt to
charge any amount different from that appearing on such sign for any service
rendered. The lettering on such sign shall be of uniform size with the
letters not less than one inch in height.



 



 



SEC. 43.25.  RESTAURANT – MENUS REQUIRED.



 



   No person controlling, leasing, acting as agent for, conducting,
managing or carrying on any restaurant, hotel, cafe, cafeteria, or other
public place where food is sold, served or offered for sale or service, shall
conduct or operate any such restaurant, hotel, cafe, cafeteria or other
public place where food is sold, served or offered for sale or service,
unless said person owning, controlling, leasing, acting as agent for,
conducting, managing or carrying on any such restaurant, hotel, cafe,
cafeteria, or other public place where food is sold, served, or offered for
sale or service, shall cause to be conspicuously displayed and maintained at
all times a menu, bill of fare, card or other form or device which shall
clearly indicate to the purchaser the price of the article of food to be sold
or served, which said menu, bill of fare, card or other like form or device,
shall be so placed, displayed and maintained as to be clearly within the
vision of the purchaser of said article or articles of food at the time such
food is ordered, provided, however, that in all public places where the sale
or service of food is effected by permitting the purchaser of said food to
view the same, and order directly therefrom each kind of food to be sold or
served shall be provided with a card, ticket, tag or other like form or
device which shall be conspicuously displayed immediately adjacent to said
kind of food and shall clearly indicate the price of the particular kind of
food immediately adjacent thereto.



 



 



SEC. 43.26.  RETAIL GROCERY PRICE MARKING.



   (Added by Ord. No. 153,436, Eff. 3/21/80.)



 



   (a)   Every person owning, operating, managing, leasing or renting
any retail grocery store, grocery department within a general retail
merchandise store, or liquor store shall cause to have a clearly readable
price indicated on each packaged consumer commodity offered for sale. Each
automatic checkout system store, participating in the test provided for
concurrently with adoption of this section, will provide a means by which the
customer may mark individual items. Automatic checkout system stores
participating in said test shall cause to have a clearly readable price
conspicuously displayed on a shelf tag where the item is shelved rather than
indicated on each packaged consumer commodity offered for sale.



 



   (b)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any of the
following:



 



   (1)   Any unpackaged fresh food produce;



 



   (2)   Any consumer commodity which is under three cubic inches in
size, weighs less than three ounces and is priced under thirty cents ($0.30);



 



   (3)   Any consumer commodity offered as a sale item or as a special;



 



   (4)   Any business which has as its only regular employees the owner
thereof, or the parent, spouse, or child of such owner, or, in addition
thereto, not more than two other regular employees;



 



   (5)   Identical items within a multi-item package;



 



   (6)   Items sold through a vending machine; and



 



   (7)   Any consumer commodity, not including packaged produce, which
was not generally item priced as of January 1, 1977, as determined by the
State of California Department of Food and Agriculture.



 



   (c)   The following definitions shall apply for purposes of this
section:



 



   (1)   “Consumer commodity” means:



 



   (A)   Food, including all material whether solid, liquid, or mixed,
and whether simple or compound, which is used or intended for consumption by
human beings or domestic animals normally kept as household pets, and all
substances or ingredients added to any such material for any purpose, but
shall not include individual packages of cigarettes or individual cigars;



 



   (B)   Paper and plastic products, such as, but not limited to,
napkins, facial tissues, toilet tissues, foil wrapping, plastic wrapping,
paper toweling, and disposable plates and cups;



 



   (C)   Detergents, soaps, and other cleaning agents; and



 



   (D)   Pharmaceuticals, including non-prescription drugs, bandages,
female hygiene products, and toiletries.



 



   (2)   “Grocery department” means an area within a general retail
merchandise store which is engaged primarily in the retail sale of packaged
food rather than food prepared for immediate consumption on or off the
premises.



 



   (3)   “Grocery store” means a store engaged primarily in the
retail sale of packaged food, rather than food prepared for consumption on
the premises.



 



   (4)   “Sale item or special” means any consumer commodity
offered in good faith for a period of seven days or less, on sale at a price
below the normal price that item is usually sold for in that grocery store or
grocery department.



 



   (5)   “Liquor store” means a store with an off sale liquor
license, as defined in State law, engaged primarily in the sale of liquor
Items.



 



   (6)   “Automatic checkout system” means an electronic system
employing a scanning device combined with a computer and a register to read a
universal product code or similar code on packaging and display and total the
cost of the items purchased.



 



   (d)   Any person intentionally violating any of the provisions of
this section shall be deemed guilty of an infraction, and upon conviction
thereof, shall be subject to the fine for an infraction.



 



 



SEC. 43.28.  TORT CLAIMS – SOLICITING.



 



   No person shall solicit employment for himself or for any other person
acting on his behalf to prosecute, collect, settle, compromise or to
negotiate for the settlement, compromise or collection of any tort claim, on
behalf of any tort claimant, in which he himself has no pecuniary interest
arising from such tort.



 



   The provisions of this section shall not be construed to prevent joint
tort claimants from negotiating with each other for the purpose of combining
respective claims or actions against the tort feasor.



 



   The mere fact that the business of adjusting and settling tort claims
affects the public welfare generally throughout the state does not mean that
the police power to regulate such business, and particularly to prohibit the
solicitation thereof within a given municipality, must be exercised
exclusively by the state legislature but on the contrary, subject only to
control of general laws, the entire police power of the state may be
exercised by the council of a city within the limits of its jurisdiction, and
a city ordinance prohibiting such solicitation is not violative of the
federal constitution.



   People v. Levy, 8 Cal. App. 2d 763.



 



 



SEC. 43.29.  EMPLOYERS – REQUIRING EMPLOYEES TO WEAR SERVICE UNIFORMS.



 



   No person engaged in any private business, occupation or employment
shall directly or indirectly require or make it a condition of the employment
of any person that such person so employed shall wear the uniform of the
military, naval or marine service of the United States while performing the
duties of such private business, occupation or employment.



 



 



SEC. 43.30.  FORTUNE TELLING.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 158,175, Eff. 9/5/83.)



 



   No person shall advertise by sign, circular, handbill or in any
newspaper, periodical, or magazine, or other publication or publications, or
by any other means, to tell fortunes, to find or restore lost or stolen
property, to locate oil wells, gold or silver or other ore or metal or
natural product; to restore lost love or friendship, to unite or procure
lovers, husbands, wives, lost relatives or friends, for or without pay, by
means of occult or psychic powers, faculities, forces, crafts or sciences,
including clairvoyance, spirits, mediumship, seership, prophecy, astrology,
palmistry, necromancy, cards, talismans, charms, potions, magnetism or
magnetized articles or substances, oriental mysteries, magic of any kind or
nature, or numerology.



 



   No person shall engage in or carry on any business the advertisement of
which is prohibited by this section.



 



   Where the appellant maintained a sign in her window: “Spiritual
Science Readings”; offered to tell a witness “everything he wanted to
know,” for $2.00; he told witness his wife would return within three days,
he was going to receive letters with money in them, and he would take a trip,
and would go back to sea, such facts constituted a violation of Section 43.30
of the Los Angeles Municipal Code, and a conviction was affirmed, even though
the appellant defended on the ground that she was a duly ordained minister
and that the $2.00 was a donation to the American Church.



   People v. Merino, CR A 1921.



 



   Even though the appellant received a salary from the church in return
for her collections, she was not exempt under the provisions of Section 43.31.



   People v. Merino, Supra.



 



   Where the appellant told the witness that she would be married twice,
would marry an attorney, would go to a new job, that the unhappy part of her
life would end July 15, that she was in danger of having an accident, but
would live to be 70 or 80 years old and appellant charged the witness $1.00,
the conviction was sustained even though appellant was an ordained minister
of a bona fide church.



   People v. Norvell, CR A 1956.



   See also: People v. Whittemore, CR A 2031.



 



   “It is not a violation of Section 43.30 of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code to tell fortunes unless the person so doing is engaged in or is carrying
on any business of fortune telling, or one or more of the other activities
therein prohibited...a single act does not constitute  a business.” (In
this case the court affirmed a conviction of 43.30 and vagrancy, holding that
“a reading of the reporter’s transcript convinces us that the proof of
defendant’s guilt was overwhelming”; (Bishop dissenting).



   People v. Abdullah et Ahmed Saud, CR A 2008.



 



   “Fortune telling...is the practice of foretelling events, or
prophesying the future, also the practice or art of professing to reveal
future events in the life of another...Tested by this definition many of the
acts proved to have been done by defendant, such as narrating the past
history of his visitors and characterizing the personalities of the visitors
and advising them as to their present and future conduct, do not constitute
fortune telling. But other acts shown, such as stating that one visitor would
receive a letter from her brother...do come within the above definition...But
Section 43.30 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code does not contain a general
prohibition of fortune telling...In addition to the words quoted after the
phrase ‘by means of,’ there is an enumeration of other arts and
practices...But we are satisfied that one who advertised merely to tell
fortunes, without specifying any of the enumerated means of doing so, and
likewise one who does tell fortunes without professing or exemplifying any of
those means, does not violate this ordinance.”



   People v. Miracles A. Smith, CR A 2034.



 



   A minister who tells fortunes as a business otherwise than in the
performance of his pastoral duties acts in violation of Section 43.30.



   People v. Bradford, CR A 2076.



 



   Section 43.30 is constitutional, and does not offend Sections 11 and 21
of Article I of the State Constitution, and even though it were conceded that
astrology is a science such a fact of itself would not warrant a person in
conducting a business of telling fortunes.



   People v. Griffen, CR A 2190.



 



 



SEC. 43.31.  FORTUNE TELLING – EXEMPTIONS.



 



   The provisions of the preceding section shall not be construed to
include, prohibit or interfere with the exercise of any religious or
spiritual function of any priest, minister, rector or an accredited
representative of any bona fide church or religion where such priest,
minister, rector or accredited representative holds a certificate of credit,
commission or ordination under the ecclesiastical laws of a religious
corporation incorporated under the laws of any state or territory of the
United States of America or any voluntary religious association, and who
fully conforms to the rites and practices prescribed by the supreme
conference, convocation, convention, assembly, association or synod of the
system or faith with which they are affiliated. Provided, however, that any
church or religious organization which is organized for the primary purpose
of conferring certificates of commission, credit or ordination for a price
and not primarily for the purpose of teaching and practicing a religious
doctrine or belief, shall not be deemed to be a bona fide church or religious
organization.



 



   See Annotations under 43.30.



 



 



SEC. 43.32.  PETITIONS – MISREPRESENTATION OF CONTENTS.



 



   (a)   No person circulating, or having charge of control of the
circulation of, or obtaining control of the circulation of, or obtaining
signatures to, any petition authorized or provided for by the City Charter,
or otherwise by law, shall misrepresent or make any false statement
concerning the contents purport or effect of any such petition to any person
who signs or who desires to sign, or who is requested to sign, or who makes
inquiry with reference to, any such petition, or to whom any such petition is
presented for his or her signature.



 



   (b)   Petitions – Misrepresentation of Content: No person
circulating or having charge or control of the circulation of, or obtaining
signatures to any petition not mentioned in the preceding subsection, and
which is or is to be presented to any body, board, commission or officer
shall willfully or knowingly misrepresent, or make any false statement
concerning the contents, purport or effect of any such petition to any person
who signs, or who desires to sign, or who is requested to sign, or who makes
inquiry with respect to any such petition, or to whom any such petition is
presented for his or her signature.



 



   (c)   Petitions – False Statements of Contents: No person shall
willfully or knowingly circulate, publish or exhibit any false statement or
misrepresentation concerning the contents, purport or effect of any petition
mentioned in this section for the purpose of obtaining any signature to any
such petition or for the purpose of pursuading any person to sign or not to
sign any such petition.



 



   (d)   Petitions – False Signatures: No person shall file in the
office of the City Clerk or with any body, board, commission or officer any
petition mentioned in this section to which is attached, appended or
subscribed any signature which the person so filing such petition knows to be
false or fraudulent or not the genuine signature of the person, purporting to
sign such petition or whose name is attached, appended or subscribed thereto.



 



   (e)   Petition – True Copy Required: No person circulating or
having charge or control of the circulation of, or obtaining signatures to,
any petition mentioned in this section shall fail, refuse or neglect to have
attached to each paper forming a part of such petition and upon which any
signature is written and at the time such signature is written on such paper,
a full, true and correct copy of such petition, or to fail, refuse or neglect
to exhibit to any person signing, or about to sign, or desiring to sign, or
who is requested to sign, any such petition, a full, true and correct copy of
such petition, or to fail, refuse or neglect to permit any person signing or
about to sign, desiring to sign or who is requested to sign, or who makes
inquiry with reference to any such petition to examine such petition for a
sufficient length of time to ascertain the contents, purport or effect of
such petition.



 



 



SEC. 43.39.  EXAMINATIONS – IMPERSONATION PROHIBITED.



 



   No person shall impersonate another person or permit or aid in any
manner any other person to impersonate him in connection with any examination
or request or application for examination for the filing of any position in
the classified civil service of this City, or for the issuance of any
certificate of qualification, license or permit required by the provisions of
this Code.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 4
PHILANTHROPY



 




(Amended In Entirety, Ord. No. 158,408, Eff. 11/20/83.)




 



 



Section



44.00   Definitions.



44.02   Powers and Duties of the Department.



44.03   Fraud.



44.04   Notice of Intention.



44.05   Out of State Organizations.



44.06   Accounting System.



44.07   Coin Containers.



44.08   Solicitations on Behalf of Other Persons.



44.09   Solicitation – Information Card.



44.10   Report of Results of Activity.



44.11   Receipts for Contributions.



44.12   Exemptions.



44.13   Hours of Solicitation.



44.14   Commercial Fund-raisers and Solicitors.



44.15   Endorsement.



 



 



SEC. 44.00.  DEFINITIONS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 175,060, Eff. 3/4/03.)



 



   For the purposes of this article, the following terms are defined and
shall be construed as indicated here unless it is apparent from the context
that they have a different meaning:



 



   (a)   “Charitable” shall include philanthropic, social service,
benevolent, patriotic, and religious, whether they are actual or purported.



 



   (b)   “Contribution” shall include food, clothing, money,
property and the loan of money or property. 



 



   (c)   “Department” shall mean the Police Department. 



 



   (d)   “Person” shall be construed as defined in Section 11.01 of
this Code. 



 



   (e)   “Commercial Fund-Raiser” shall mean any person who for
pecuniary compensation or consideration received solicits or purports to
solicit charitable contributions on behalf of any other person.  Pecuniary
compensation or consideration shall include, but is not limited to,
participation on a percentage basis in any funds solicited or raised.  No
natural person who is an officer, director, or bona fide paid employee of a
charitable organization that is operating in compliance with this article
shall be considered a commercial fund-raiser within the meaning of this
article.  Nor shall any natural person who is working under the direction
and control of a commercial fund-raiser be considered a commercial
fund-raiser within the meaning of this article.



 



   (f)   “Solicitor” shall mean any person who for pecuniary
compensation or consideration received solicits or purports to solicit
charitable contributions but who is not licensed as a commercial fund-raiser;
provided that no natural person who is an officer, director, or bona fide
paid employee of a charitable organization that is operating in compliance
with this article shall be considered a solicitor within the meaning of this
article.



 



   (g)   “Solicitation” shall mean and include the following:



 



   (1)   Any oral or written request for a charitable contribution
made, transmitted, or distributed by any means; and



 



   (2)   Any offer to sell any service, item, or right to attend any
function or participate in any activity, which offer includes reference to
any actual or purported charitable purpose or charitable organization as an
inducement to purchase the service, item, or right to attend.



 



   A solicitation shall be deemed completed when made, whether or not the
person making it receives a contribution or makes a sale referred to in this
article. No communication between natural persons personally known to each
other shall constitute a solicitation for purposes of this article.  No
communication made by electronic mail shall constitute a solicitation for
purposes of this article unless the person making the communication is aware
that the recipient of the e-mail is located in the City of Los Angeles.  No
information contained on any website or presented on any television or radio
broadcast that is subject to regulation by the Federal Communications
Commission shall constitute a solicitation for purposes of this article. 
Nor shall any statement that a charitable organization is nonprofit,
tax-exempt, or funded or supported by charitable contributions by itself
constitute a solicitation for purposes of this article.  For purposes of
this article, “solicitation” shall not include any raffle within the
meaning of California Penal Code Section 320.5.



 



 



SEC. 44.01.  POWERS OF BOARD.



   (Repealed by Ord. No. 173,283, Eff. 6/26/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)



 



 



SEC. 44.02.  POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE DEPARTMENT.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 175,060, Eff. 3/4/03.)



 



   (a)   The Department shall have the following powers:



 



   (1)   To investigate statements on:



 



   (A)   the Notice of Intention and information submitted in
connection with the Notice; and



 



   (B)   the Report of Results of Activity and information submitted in
connection with the Report;



 



   (2)   To have access to and inspect and make copies of all books,
records and papers, relating to any solicitation and the distribution of any
contribution received from the solicitation, of the person by whom or on
whose behalf the solicitation is made;



 



   (3)   To investigate the method of making or conducting any
solicitation and to give publicity to its findings in such manner as the
Department deems best to advise the public of the facts of the solicitation;



 



   (4)   To recall and declare void any Information Card upon receipt
of additional information by the Department which renders incorrect any
statement provided by the applicant that is set forth on the Information
Card, provided that the incorrect statement in question is not an innocent
mistake.  Upon recall, the Department shall issue a new Information Card
pursuant to Subsection (b) of this section.  Upon request, all recalled
Information Cards shall be returned to the Department within 48 hours.



 



   (b)   The Department shall have the following duties:



 



   (1)   The Department shall issue an Information Card no later than
15 days after receipt of a Notice of Intention which complies with the
requirements of Section 44.04 of this article; provided that where the notice
is incomplete or otherwise fails to meet the requirements of Section 44.04 of
this article, the Department shall, within ten days after receipt of the
notice, notify the applicant in writing of the specific information needed to
meet the requirements of Section 44.04 of this article.  The Department
shall issue an Information Card no later than 15 days after receipt of such
additional information.



 



   (2)   The Department shall indicate on all Information Cards the
following:



 



   (A)   That the Card is issued only as information for the public; or



 



   (B)   That the Card is an endorsement, if the Department endorses
pursuant to Section 44.15 of this article;



 



   (C)   The pertinent facts of the solicitation from the Notice of
Intention, including the commencement and termination dates.



 



 



SEC. 44.03.  FRAUD.



 



   No person shall perpetrate deception or fraud in connection with the
solicitation of contributions for charitable purposes.



 



 



SEC. 44.04.  NOTICE OF INTENTION.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 175,060, Eff. 3/4/03.)



 



   No person shall solicit or authorize any other person to solicit any
charitable contribution unless a written Notice of Intention to solicit
charitable contributions is filed with the Department at least 15 days prior
to the beginning of the solicitation on a form furnished by the Department. 
A Notice of Intention shall be filed for each separate special event.  At
the option of the person filing the Notice, a Notice related to an ongoing
general appeal for charitable contributions may be filed on an annual
basis.  The Department shall distinguish between special events and
activities related to an ongoing general appeal so as to best inform the
public of the costs and receipts of the various types of charitable
solicitation activities undertaken by the person filing the Notice.  If an
annual Notice is filed, it shall include a description of the activities
planned for the year related to the general appeal of the person filing the
Notice, and the person filing the Notice shall file a separate Notice of
Intention for any charitable solicitation activity that is not included in
the annual Notice.  The Notice of Intention shall include the following
information and must be accompanied by an information card fee of $62.00: 
(Amended by Ord. No. 185,605, Eff. 7/8/18.)



 



   (a)   The name of the person registering and desiring to solicit
funds for charitable purposes;



 



   (b)   Whether the person registering is a natural person,
partnership, corporation or association; and,



 



   (1)   If a natural person, the principal business or residence
address and telephone number;



 



   (2)   If a partnership, the address and telephone number, if any, of
the partnership, and the name and principal business or residence address and
telephone number of each partner;



 



   (3)   If a corporation, the state of incorporation, the address and
telephone number of the corporate headquarters, the mailing address,
location, telephone number, and name of the person in charge of the Los
Angeles or other local office, if any, and the name and title of each officer
and director or trustee;



 



   (4)   If an association, the principal business address and
telephone number of the association, if any, the name and principal business
or residence address and telephone number of each member, unless there are
more than ten members, in which case the association shall provide the name,
title, and principal business or residence address and telephone number of
each officer and director or trustee, and if the association is part of a
multi-state organization, the business address and location of its Los
Angeles or other local office;



 



   (c)   The purpose of the solicitation and use of the contributions
to be solicited;



 



   (d)   The commencement and termination dates of the solicitation;



 



   (e)   The type of solicitation activity and how it will be conducted;



 



   (f)   An estimate of the total cost of the solicitation (such
estimate may be based on the most recent comparable solicitation activity, if
any, unless the person filing the Notice expects the cost of the proposed
solicitation to be substantially different);



 



   (g)   The names of any officer, director, trustee, partner, or any
current agent or employee engaging in solicitation of funds who has been
convicted of a felony or a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude within the
past seven years, and the nature of the offense, the State where the
conviction occurred, and the year of the conviction;



 



   (h)   A statement signed under penalty of perjury by persons
authorized by the person filing the Notice that the signers of the Notice of
Intention have read and are familiar with the provisions of this article.



 



 



SEC. 44.05.  OUT OF STATE ORGANIZATIONS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 175,060, Eff. 3/4/03.)



 



   (a)   The Notice of Intention described in Section 44.04 may be
filed pursuant to this section if all of the following conditions are met:



 



   (1)   The person filing the Notice is based outside the State of
California;



 



   (2)   The person filing the Notice is registered with the State of
California as a charitable trust or charitable organization throughout the
period covered by the Notice;



 



   (3)   The Notice pertains to activities related to an ongoing
general appeal for charitable contributions; and



 



   (4)   The Notice contains all of the following information:



 



   (A)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person filing
the Notice;



 



   (B)   Whether the person is a corporation and the date of
organization;



 



   (C)   The person’s employer identification number and corporation
or organization number;



 



   (D)   The dates covered by the Notice; and



 



   (E)   The types of solicitation activities anticipated during the
period covered by the Notice.



 



   (b)   Sections 44.09 and 44.10 shall not apply to persons filing a
Notice of Intention pursuant to this section.



 



 



SEC. 44.06.  ACCOUNTING SYSTEM.



 



   No person shall solicit charitable contributions unless a system of
accounting is maintained whereby all transactions are entered upon the books
or records of the person, either on the cash or accrual basis, according to
established and customary accounting principles.



 



 



SEC. 44.07.  COIN CONTAINERS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 175,060, Eff. 3/4/03.)



 



   No person shall solicit any charitable contributions utilizing coin
containers or receptacles without displaying an Information Card or an
authentic reproduction of the Card.



 



 



SEC. 44.08.  SOLICITATIONS ON BEHALF OF OTHER PERSONS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 175,060, Eff. 3/4/03.)



 



   (a)   No person shall conduct a solicitation for charitable
contributions on behalf of another person without written authorization from
the person on whose behalf the solicitation is made.




   (b)   The written authorization required by Subsection (a) shall be
provided to the Department with the Notice of Intention filed by the person
conducting the solicitation.




   (c)   Subsections (a) and (b) shall not apply where the person
conducting the solicitation is  an officer, director, bonafide employee, or
bonafide member of a charitable organization that is operating in compliance
with this article.



 



 



SEC. 44.09.  SOLICITATION – INFORMATION CARD.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 175,060, Eff. 3/4/03.)



 



   (a)   No person shall solicit any charitable contribution unless an
Information Card has been issued pursuant to Section 44.02 of this article.




   (b)   No person shall solicit in person any charitable contribution
without personal possession of the original or an authentic reproduction of
the Information Card.  The original or an authentic reproduction of the
Information Card shall be conspicuously displayed at the site of special
events conducted for the purpose of obtaining funds for charitable purposes.




   (c)   No person shall solicit any charitable contribution by means
of any written or printed material that is published, mailed, delivered, or
otherwise distributed unless such material includes the information contained
in the Information Card.




   (d)   Any person soliciting charitable contributions by radio,
television, telephone, telegraph, or e-mail, shall provide the information
contained on the Information Card upon the request of any person being
solicited.




   (e)   Any person soliciting charitable contributions shall present
the original or an authentic reproduction of the Information Card upon the
request of any person being solicited.



 



 



SEC. 44.10.  REPORT OF RESULTS OF ACTIVITY.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 175,060, Eff. 3/4/03.)



 



   Every person soliciting charitable contributions shall file with the
Department within 30 days after the termination date of the solicitation a
Report of Results of Activity.  For  persons filing the Report based on an
annual Notice of Intention, the termination date shall be one year after the
initial date for which the Notice of Intention was filed.  The Report shall
detail all receipts, expenses and distributions of proceeds. The Report shall
be made on a form provided by the Department and signed by two officers, if
practicable, or other natural persons authorized by the person filing the
Report.




   It shall be unlawful to expend charitable funds raised by public
solicitation for any purpose other than those specified on the Information
Card, except that where no purpose specified on the Information Card any
longer exists, the person may expend such funds for a similar purpose.



 



 



SEC. 44.11.  RECEIPTS FOR CONTRIBUTIONS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 175,060, Eff. 3/4/03.)



 



   A receipt for the amount donated shall be given to each contributor
requesting one.  Each receipt shall be signed by the person making the
solicitation and shall identify the person on whose behalf the contribution
was received.



 



 



SEC. 44.12.  EXEMPTIONS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 175,060, Eff. 3/4/03.)



 



   The provisions of this article, except Sections 44.00 and 44.03, shall
not be applicable to any of the following:




   (a)   Any solicitation made upon premises owned or occupied by the
person upon whose behalf the solicitation is made;




   (b)   Any solicitation for the relief of any natural person
specified by name at the time of the solicitation where the person making the
solicitation represents that the entire amount collected, without any
reduction, shall be turned over to the named beneficiary, and the entire
amount collected is in fact turned over to the named beneficiary;




   (c)   Any solicitation by an organization soliciting contributions
solely from its own members at the time of the solicitation.



 



 



SEC. 44.13.  HOURS OF SOLICITATION.



 



   (a)   No person shall solicit any charitable contribution
door-to-door between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.



 



   (b)   No child under the age of 10 years shall solicit any
charitable contribution unless accompanied by a responsible person who is 18
years of age or older and who shall at all times keep such child within the
range of his or her sight and hearing.



 



   (c)   No child under the age of 16 years shall solicit any
charitable contributions between the time of sunset and 9:00 a.m.



 



 



SEC. 44.14.  COMMERCIAL FUND-RAISERS AND SOLICITORS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 175,060, Eff. 3/4/03.)



 



   (a)   Commercial Fund-Raisers.  No commercial fund-raiser shall
solicit charitable contributions for any actual or purported charitable
purpose without a license issued by the Department. A commercial fund-raiser
shall not solicit charitable contributions for any person without first
notifying the Department.  A commercial fund-raiser shall notify the
Department in writing of all contracts and working agreements with each
charitable organization with which the commercial fund-raiser is associated.



 



   (b)   Application. Applicants shall file for a commercial
fund-raiser’s license on forms furnished by the Department.



 



   (c)   Investigation.  The Department shall  investigate the
applicant and verify:



 



   (1)   That the applicant has not been convicted of a felony or a
misdemeanor involving moral turpitude within the past seven (7) years; and



 



   (2)   That all statements in the application are true.



 



   (d)   Issuance.  The Department shall issue to the applicant a
license to solicit as a commercial fund-raiser when all of the foregoing
conditions are met. If all of the foregoing conditions have not been met, the
Department shall deny a license to the applicant, subject to the following
conditions:



 



   (1)   The Department shall notify the applicant in writing, no later
than 15 days after receipt of the complete application of the reasons for
denial of a license;



 



   (2)   The applicant may appeal the denial of a license by written
request filed with the Board of Police Commissioners within 10 days after
notification of the denial;



 



   (3)   The Board of Police Commissioners shall schedule a hearing
within 30 days after receipt of the request for appeal and shall send notice
of the time and place of the hearing to the applicant by certified mail no
later than ten days prior to the date set for the hearing;



 



   (4)   The applicant and the Department may submit evidence relative
to their respective positions in writing prior to the hearing or in writing
or orally at the hearing and the burden of proof at the hearing shall be upon
the Department; and



 



   (5)   The hearing shall be held before the Board of Police
Commissioners, which shall notify the applicant in writing of its decision
within five days after completion of the hearing process. The Department
shall immediately issue the license upon a finding by the Board of Police
Commissioners that the Department has failed to sustain its burden of proof
at the hearing.  The Department shall not issue a license upon a finding by
the Board of Police Commissioners that the Department has met its burden of
proof at the hearing. Upon a denial of a license, the Department may seek an
injunction to prohibit any act in violation of this section.



 



   (e)   Revocation.  A commercial fund-raiser’s license may be
revoked if the Department finds that any act or omission of such commercial
fund-raiser or his or her agents or employees in making any solicitation or
in the conduct of the business of a commercial fund- raiser is illegal or
fraudulent. The Department must revoke a commercial fund-raiser’s license
if it finds the existence of any grounds upon which the issuance of such
license would be denied under this section. No revocation of a commercial
fund-raiser’s license shall be effective except upon notice and an
opportunity to be heard as provided in Subsection (d) of this section.



 



   (f)   Expiration.  Each commercial fund-raiser’s license shall
expire 12 months after issuance.



 



   (g)   Funds.  A commercial fund-raiser shall not commingle
charitable contributions with his or her funds or property.



 



   (h)   Solicitors.



 



   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any commercial fund-raiser to cause
or permit any person for compensation to solicit or receive any charitable
contribution unless such person is licensed as a solicitor by the Department.
Each solicitor shall be under the direction and control of a licensed
commercial fund-raiser.



 



   (2)   Except as provided in Subsections (a) through (h) of this
section, no person shall for compensation solicit charitable contributions
for or on behalf of any other person without a license issued by the
Department.



 



   (3)   Each initial application shall be accompanied by the
applicant’s photograph and fingerprints, on forms prescribed by the
Department, and by a fingerprint processing fee payable to the Department. 
The Department is authorized to adjust the amount of the fee for the
processing of fingerprints so that it is equal in amount to the fee charged
to the City of Los Angeles by the State of California for the processing of
fingerprints.  The fingerprint processing fee shall not exceed the amount
charged to the City by the State.



 



   (4)   A solicitor’s license shall be issued upon verification by
the Department that  the  statements in the application are true and that
the applicant has not been convicted of any felony or misdemeanor involving
moral turpitude within the past seven years.



 



   (5)   A solicitor must notify the Department in writing of any
change of address and of any termination or change of employment.



 



   (6)   A solicitor’s license may be revoked if the Department finds
that any act or omission of such solicitor in making any solicitation is
illegal or fraudulent. The Department must revoke a solicitor’s license if
it finds the existence of any grounds upon which the issuance of such license
would be denied under this subsection. No revocation of a solicitor’s
license shall be effective except upon notice and an opportunity to be heard
as provided in Subsection (d) of this section.



 



   (7)   Consideration of a solicitor’s license application and
issuance or denial of a license shall be subject to the time periods and
procedures set forth in Subsection (d) of this section.  Each solicitor’s
license shall expire 12 months after issuance.



 



 



SEC. 44.15.  ENDORSEMENT.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 175,060, Eff. 3/4/03.)



 



   The Department shall have the following powers:



 



   (a)   To endorse, upon request, those charitable organizations which
submit to investigation and meet the following requirements:



 



   (1)   That a direct service program is provided to the community by
the organization;



 



   (2)   That the work for which the organization was created has been
performed;



 



   (3)   That a board of directors or trustees exercises full control
and direction of the organization;



 



   (4)   That the members of the board of directors or trustees are not
compensated for their services;



 



   (5)   That the compensated administrative head of the organization
is not a member of the board of directors or trustees;



 



   (6)   That no monies of the organization are on loan directly or
indirectly to any officer, director, trustee or employee of the organization;



 



   (7)   That the organization has not paid out more than 20 percent of
any amount collected by solicitation for expenses of solicitation and has not
diverted funds donated to it from any source to purposes other than those for
which they were donated;



 



   (8)   That for the period of one year prior to the endorsement, the
organization has kept its records in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles and standards for non- profit organizations;



 



   (9)   That for the period of one year prior to the endorsement, the
organization has not violated any law applicable to it. The Department shall
issue said endorsement to any organization that complies with the
abovementioned requirements. An endorsement shall be valid for one year from
the date of its issuance or most recent renewal. Renewal of an endorsement
may be granted upon the same conditions as an original endorsement may be
issued;



 



   (b)   To refuse to endorse or revoke endorsement of an organization
that does not comply with the requirements of Subsection (a) of this section,
subject to the following procedure:



 



   (1)   The Department shall notify the organization in writing of the
reasons for denial or revocation of endorsement.



 



   (2)   The organization may appeal the denial or revocation of
endorsement by written request filed with the Board of Police Commissioners
within ten days after notification of the denial or revocation.  If an
appeal is filed, the Department shall withhold making a final decision until
the report of the Board of Police Commissioners has been received.  If an
appeal is not filed within the prescribed time limit, the decision to deny or
revoke endorsement shall be final.



 



   (3)   The Board of Police Commissioners shall schedule a hearing
within 30 days after receipt of the appeal and shall send notice of the time
and place of the hearing to the organization by certified mail no later than
ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.



 



   (4)   The organization and the Department may submit evidence
relative to their respective positions in writing prior to the hearing or in
writing or orally at the hearing.



 



   (5)   The hearing shall be held before the Board of Police
Commissioners which shall notify the Department of its findings within five
days after completion of the hearing process.



 



   (6)   The Department shall notify the organization of the Board’s
decision after receiving the findings of the Board of Police Commissioners. 



 



   (c)   To convene on no less than an annual basis representatives of
endorsed organizations to secure cooperation among charities in the City to
the end that a comprehensive and economical plan in philanthropy is promoted;



 



   (d)   To provide advice, counsel and training opportunities to all
charitable organizations in the City on the methods and procedures that lead
to or help maintain endorsement.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 4.5
BINGO



 




(Added By Ord. No. 149,992, Eff. 9/1/77.)




 



 



Section



44.50   Authority for Enactment.



44.51   License Required.



44.52   Authority to Issue License and Prescribe Rules and Regulations.



44.53   Regulation of Games.



44.54   Hearings Subpoenas.



44.55   Imposition of Bingo License Fees.



44.56   Licensing of Bingo Suppliers.



44.57   Purchase of Bingo Supplies or Equipment.



 



 



SEC. 44.50.  AUTHORITY FOR ENACTMENT.



 



   This Article is enacted pursuant to the authority contained in Article
IV, Section 19 of the Constitution of the State of California and Section
326.5 of the Penal Code of the State of California.



 



 



SEC. 44.51.  LICENSE REQUIRED.



 



   It is unlawful to conduct or play a game of bingo in the City of
LosAngeles without a valid bingo license issued pursuant to this article.
(Amended by Od. No. 154,612, Eff. 12/18/80.)



 



 



SEC. 44.52.  AUTHORITY TO ISSUE LICENSE AND PRESCRIBE RULES AND REGULATIONS.



 



   The Police Department shall have the authority, pursuant to this
Article and applicable state law, to issue licenses for games of bingo by
organizations exempted from the payment of the bank and corporation tax by
Sections 23701a, 23701b, 23701d, 23701e, 23701f, 23701g, and 23701l of the
Revenue and Taxation Code and by mobilehome park associations and senior
citizens organizations.  (First Sentence Amended by Ord. No. 171,262, Eff.
10/4/96.)  Said Department shall enforce the provisions of this article and
shall have authority to promulgate and administer rules to implement the
regulations of bingo in the City of Los Angeles. Such rules shall be
submitted to and approved by the City Council.



 



 



SEC. 44.53.  REGULATION OF GAMES.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 181,289, Eff. 10/3/10.)



 



   All bingo games, and all activities in connection therewith shall be
conducted in accordance with the provisions of Sections 326.3 and 326.5 of
the Penal Code of the State of California, as amended from time to time.



 



 



SEC. 44.54.  HEARINGS SUBPOENAS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 151,921, Eff. 3/4/79.)



 



   (1)   Any hearing conducted to determine whether a bingo license or
bingo supplier license shall be revoked or suspended or an application
therefor denied shall be conducted pursuant to the provisions of Section
102.10 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code. (Amended by Ord. No. 164,083, Eff.
11/6/88.)



 



   (2)   The Board of Police Commissioners, or any person designated
thereby to conduct a hearing referred to in Subsection (1) of this section,
is authorized and empowered to compel the attendance of witnesses and the
production of evidence by subpoena at such hearing.  The Board of Police
Commissioners, or any person designated thereby to conduct such hearing,
shall also obtain issuance and service of a subpoena upon written request of
any party to the hearing.  (First and Second Sentences Amended by Ord. No.
171,262, Eff. 10/4/96.)  Such request shall be accompanied by an affidavit
stating the name and address of any proposed witness and, in the event the
attendance of such witness is sought in connection with the production of
evidence, the exact nature of the evidence sought to be produced, the
materiality of such evidence to the issues involved in the hearing and a
statement that the witness has the desired things in his or her possession or
control. The City Clerk, upon demand of the Board of Police Commissioners or
person designated to conduct such hearing, shall issue a subpoena in the name
of the City of Los Angeles directing the appearance of the witness and/or the
production of the evidence at the time and place specified in the subpoena. 
(Last Sentence Amended by Ord. No. 171,262, Eff. 10/4/96.)



 



 



SEC.  44.55.  IMPOSITION OF BINGO LICENSE FEES.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 171,475, Eff. 2/13/97, Oper. 1/1/97.)



 



   (1)   A fifty dollar ($50) license fee shall be paid upon
application for a bingo license or upon renewal thereof.  In the event an
application for license is denied, one-half of the fee shall be refundable to
the applicant.  A bingo license shall be valid for a period of one year. 
An additional fee for law enforcement and public safety costs incurred by the
City shall be collected monthly by the City of Los Angeles.  The fee shall
be computed as follows:  Each licensee shall pay a monthly fee equal to
.922% (.00922) of the total amount paid out in bingo prizes for that month in
excess of $2,000.  The above fee shall be adjusted, if necessary, in order
to recover the City’s administrative costs, and adopted in the same manner
as provided in Section 12.37-I, 1 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code for
establishing fees.



 



   (2)   A one hundred dollar ($100) license fee shall be paid upon
application for a bingo suppliers license or upon annual renewal thereof.



 



 



SEC. 44.56.  LICENSING OF BINGO SUPPLIERS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 164,083, Eff. 11/6/88.)



 



   (1)   The Police Department shall have the authority to license
businesses which provide bingo supplies or equipment to organizations
licensed to play bingo in the City of Los Angeles and to promulgate and
administer rules and regulations with respect to the licensing of such
organizations.  (First Sentence Amended by Ord. No. 171,262, Eff. 10/4/96.)
Such rules shall be submitted to and approved by the City Council.



 



   (2)   No person shall engage in, conduct, manage or carry on the
business of selling, or sell, bingo supplies or equipment to any organization
licensed to play bingo in the City of Los Angeles without a license for such
purpose issued by the Police Department.  (Amended by Ord. No. 171,262, Eff.
10/4/96.)



 



 



SEC. 44.57.  PURCHASE OF BINGO SUPPLIES OR EQUIPMENT.



   (Added by Ord. No. 164,083, Eff. 11/6/88.)



 



   No person shall purchase bingo supplies or equipment for use by an
organization licensed to conduct bingo in the City of Los Angeles from any
vendor not licensed pursuant to the provisions of Section 44.56 and
applicable rules and regulations.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 5
MINORS



 



 



Section



45.00   Definitions.



45.01   Firearms – Knives – Slingshots – Sale to Minors.



45.02   Firearms – Minors – Possession of.



45.03   Nighttime Curfew Restrictions for Minors.



45.04   Daytime Curfew Restrictions for Minors.



45.06   Minors’ School Books – Sale.



45.07   Theaters – Minors – Hours of Attendance.



45.08   Dancing Academy – When Infant May Attend.



45.09   Dancing Academy – Authorization to Attend.



45.10   Dancing Academy – False Signature in Authorization.



45.11   Dancing Academy – Authorization – Filing of.



45.13   Dancing Academy – Hours for Instruction.



45.15   Female Dance Instructors.



45.16   Dance Halls – Illumination.



45.17   Dance Halls – Exceptions.



45.19   Display of Drug Paraphernalia to Minors.



 



 



SEC. 45.00.  DEFINITIONS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 111,348, Eff. 7/4/58.)



 



   (a)   “BOARD” means the Board of Police Commissioners unless
otherwise designated.



 



   (b)   “DANCING ACADEMY” means a regularly established place of
business maintained and conducted principally for the purpose of giving
instructions in dancing.



 



   (c)   “DANCE HALL” means any place where the holding or
conducting of public dances is regularly carried on.



 



   (d)   “DANCING CLUB” means any club or association of persons
which conducts dances, other than public dances, for its members or bona fide
guests more than once per month at which a fee is charged, either for an
admission to such dance or for dancing therein, or at which any collection or
donation of money is made or received, or in which the amount of dues to be
paid by each member is dependent upon attendance at such dances by such
member.



 



   (e)   “PUBLIC DANCES” means gathering of persons in or upon any
premises where dancing is participated in and to which premises the public is
admitted.



 



 



SEC. 45.01.  FIREARMS – KNIVES – SLINGSHOTS – SALE TO MINORS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 169,154, Eff. 1/1/94.)



 



   No person shall sell, exchange, give or loan to any person under 18
years of age any:



 



   (a)   slingshot,



 



   (b)   springback knife,



 



   (c)   fixed or locking blade knife having a blade over two inches in
length,



 



   (d)   dirk or dagger having a blade over two inches in length,



 



   (e)   ice pick,



 



   (f)   tool or implement having a point similar to an ice pick, a
shaft at least three inches in length and a handle,



 



   (g)   straight edge razor or razor blade fitted to a handle,



 



   (h)   gun,



 



   (i)   revolver,



 



   (j)   pistol or firearm of any description,



 



   (k)   spring or air gun or other device designed or intended to
discharge any pellets, BB shot, shot or other deadly or dangerous missile, or



 



   (l)   ammunition, cartridge, shell or other device, whether
containing any explosive substance or not, designed and intended for use in
any weapons enumerated herein.



 



   Work related uses of any of the above weapons are not prohibited under
this section.



 



 



SEC. 45.02.  FIREARMS – MINORS – POSSESSION OF.



 



   No person under 18 years of age shall have in his possession, care,
custody or control any article or thing mentioned in the preceding section.



 



 



SEC. 45.03.  NIGHTTIME CURFEW RESTRICTIONS FOR MINORS.



   (Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 180,173, Eff. 10/5/08.)



 



   (a)   Curfew.  It is unlawful for any minor under the age of
eighteen years to be present in or upon any public street, avenue, highway,
road, curb area, alley, park, playground, or other public ground, public
place or public building, place of amusement or eating place, vacant lot, or
unsupervised place between the hours of 10:00 p.m. on any day and sunrise of
the immediately following day.




   (b)   Exceptions.  The provisions of this section shall not apply
when:



 



   (1)   The minor is accompanied by his or her parent, guardian, other
adult person authorized by the parent or guardian having the care or custody
of the minor, or by his or her spouse eighteen years of age or older; or



 



   (2)   The minor is on an errand directed by his or her parent,
guardian, other adult person authorized by the parent or guardian having the
care or custody of the minor, or by his or her spouse eighteen years of age
or older without any detour or stop; or



 



   (3)   The minor is attending or going directly to or returning
directly home from a public meeting or a place of public entertainment such
as a movie, play, sporting event, dance or school activity; or



 



   (4)   The presence of a minor in one or more of the places
identified in Subsection (a) is connected with or required with respect to a
business, trade, profession or occupation in which the minor is lawfully
engaged; or



 



   (5)   The minor is involved in an emergency such as a fire, natural
disaster, automobile accident, a situation requiring immediate action to
prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life, or any unforeseen combination
of circumstances or the resulting state, which calls for immediate action; or



 



   (6)   The minor is exercising the rights guaranteed by the First
Amendment of the United States Constitution and by Article I, Sections 2, 3,
and 4 of the California Constitution; or



 



   (7)   The minor is in a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
or



 



   (8)   The minor is emancipated in accordance with the California
Family Code or other applicable state law.



 



   (c)   Enforcement.  Before taking any action to enforce the
provisions of this section, police officers shall ask the apparent offender's
age and reason for being in the public place during curfew hours.  The
officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest under this section
unless the officer reasonably believes that an offense has occurred and that,
based on any responses and other circumstances, no exceptions to this section
apply.



 



   (d)   Severability of Provisions.  If any severable provision of
this ordinance or any application of the provisions is held invalid, that
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of the
ordinance, which can be given effect notwithstanding any invalidity.



 



 



SEC. 45.04.  DAYTIME CURFEW RESTRICTIONS FOR MINORS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 182,084, Eff. 4/13/12.)



 



   (a)   Curfew.  It is unlawful for any minor under the age of 18,
who is subject to compulsory education or to compulsory continuation
education, alone or in concert with others, to be present in or upon the
public streets, highways, roads, alleys, parks, playgrounds, or other public
grounds, public places, public buildings, places or amusement and eating
places, vacant lots or any place open to the public during the hours of the
day when the school, which the minor would normally attend, is in session, on
days when that school is in session.  This section shall not apply to public
sidewalks immediately adjacent to school grounds, the entrance areas to
schools, or to school grounds.



 



   (b)   Exceptions.  The provisions of this section shall not apply
when:



 



   (1)   The minor is accompanied by his or her parent, guardian, or
other adult person authorized by the parent or guardian having the care or
custody of the minor; or



 



   (2)   The minor is on an emergency errand directed by his or her
parent, guardian or other adult person having the care or custody of the
minor; or



 



   (3)   The minor is attending or going directly to or returning
directly from a public meeting or an official school-sponsored sporting
event, dance, or activity which is under the direction, supervision, or
control of an adult and which is organized, arranged, or sponsored by the
City, a local educational authority, or religious or civil organization that
is taking responsibility for the minor; or



 



   (4)   The minor is going directly to or coming directly from their
place of gainful employment; or



 



   (5)   The minor is going directly to or coming directly from a
medical appointment; or



 



   (6)   The minor is carrying in his or her possession a valid, school
issued, off-campus permit or pass that authorizes the minor to leave the
school campus; or



 



   (7)   The presence of the minor in one or more of the places
identified in Subsection (a) is connected with or required with respect to a
business, trade, profession or occupation in which the minor is lawfully
engaged; or



 



   (8)   The minor is involved in an emergency such as a fire, natural
disaster, automobile accident, a situation requiring immediate action to
prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life, or any unforeseen combination
of circumstances or the resulting state, which calls for immediate action; or



 



   (9)   The minor is in a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
or



 



   (10)   The minor is authorized to be absent from his or her school
pursuant to the provisions of California Education Code Section 48205, or any
other applicable state or federal law; or



 



   (11)   The minor is traveling in the general direction of his or her
school, regardless of whether school has already begun.  If the minor is
contacted by law enforcement within a 3 block radius of his or her school
within the first 60 minutes after school has begun, it establishes a
rebuttable presumption that the minor is traveling to his or her school.



 



   (c)   Enforcement.  Before taking any action to enforce the
provisions of this section, police officers shall ask the apparent offender's
age and reason for being in the public place during curfew hours.  The
officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest under this section
unless the officer reasonably believes that an offense has occurred, that the
minor is required to be in school, and that based on any responses and other
circumstances, no exceptions to this section apply.  The officer shall
identify the time when the officer first encountered the minor, provide the
minor's stated age, and articulate the justification for the citation's
issuance directly on the citation.



 



   (d)   Penalties for Violation.  A violation of this section is an
infraction.  The first and second violations of this section shall only be
punishable by either a requirement to provide an attendance plan to the
court, developed with the minor and/or parent or appropriate guardian, or to
participate in community service or other appropriate community or
school-based program for mentoring, tutoring, credit recovery, or
counseling.  The minor shall not be required to perform community service or
fulfill program attendance for a total time exceeding 20 hours in any 60-day
period, and the hours for performance shall occur during times other than
during the minor's hours of school attendance or employment.



 



   Third and subsequent violations of this section shall be punishable by
the sanctions for a first or second violation, or may be punishable by a fine
not exceeding twenty dollars ($20.00) for any individual minor.  At any
time, fines may be waived due to indigence.



 



   (e)   Severability of Provisions.  If any severable provision of
this ordinance or any application thereof is held invalid, that invalidity
shall not affect other provisions or applications of the ordinance which can
be given effect notwithstanding such invalidity.



 



 



SEC. 45.06.  MINORS’ SCHOOL BOOKS – SALE.



 



   No person shall purchase or acquire by gift, bargain, exchange, or in
any other manner, the necessary books of instruction used or prescribed for
the use and belonging to or in the possession, custody or control of any
pupil, under the age of 21 years, regularly enrolled or attending any public
school without first obtaining the authorization and consent, in writing, of
the parents or guardian of said pupil or the principal of the school at which
said pupil is regularly enrolled or in attendance, so to do.



 



 



SEC. 45.07.  THEATERS – MINORS – HOURS OF ATTENDANCE.



 



   (a)   No person conducting managing or carrying on the business of a
moving picture exhibition shall permit or allow any person under the age of
fourteen to attend any such moving picture exhibition after the hour of nine
o’ clock P.M. of any day, unless such infant be accompanied by a parent
guardian or other adult person.



 



   (b)   No person conducting, managing or carrying on the business of
a moving picture exhibition shall permit or allow any such infant to enter or
attend any such moving picture exhibition after the receipt of a notice
signed by the parent or guardian of any such infant requesting that said
infant be not allowed to enter or attend any such moving picture exhibition.



 



 



SEC. 45.08.  DANCING ACADEMY – WHEN INFANT MAY ATTEND.



 



   No person conducting, maintaining or carrying on a dancing academy
shall permit any person under the age of sixteen (16) years to enter, dance
or be instructed in dancing between the hours of six o’clock P.M. and
twelve o’clock midnight of any day, unless such infant be accompanied by
his parent, guardian or person exercising parental control over such infant,
or by any other adult person authorized in writing by the parent, guardian,
or any other adult person exercising parental control of such infant, to
accompany the infant to any dancing academy.



 



 



SEC. 45.09.  DANCING ACADEMY – AUTHORIZATION TO ATTEND.



 



   The authorization referred to in the above section shall state that the
person therein named may accompany the infant to such dancing academy on a
date specified therein, together with the residence address of the person
executing the same.



 



   No authorization shall be good for more than one day.



 



 



SEC. 45.10.  DANCING ACADEMY – FALSE SIGNATURE IN AUTHORIZATION.



 



   No person shall sign the name of another person to any authorization as
specified in Sec. 45.09 of this article.



 



 



SEC. 45.11.  DANCING ACADEMY – AUTHORIZATION – FILING OF.



 



   It shall be the duty of the person conducting, maintaining or carrying
on a dancing academy, upon presentation of authorization as required by
Section 45.08 forthwith to take such authorization from the person presenting
it, and keep it for the inspection of the Chief of Police and members of the
Police Department, for a period of thirty (30) days thereafter.



 



 



SEC. 45.13.  DANCING ACADEMY – HOURS FOR INSTRUCTION.



 



   No person under the age of sixteen (16) years shall enter, be, remain,
dance or receive dancing instructions, in any dance academy, between the
hours of six (6) o’clock P.M. of any day and twelve o’clock midnight of
the same day, unless such infant is accompanied thereto as provided for in
Sec. 45.08 of this article.



 



 



SEC. 45.15.  FEMALE DANCE INSTRUCTORS.



 



   No person conducting, maintaining or carrying on a dancing academy or
public dance hall shall employ or permit a female under the age of twenty-one
(21) years to give instructions in dancing therein to persons of the opposite
sex.



 



 



SEC. 45.16.  DANCE HALLS – ILLUMINATION.



 



   No person conducting, maintaining or carrying on a dancing academy or
public dance shall permit any instructor who is under twenty-one (21) years
to give instructions in dancing to persons of the opposite sex in an private
room, booth, alcove or enclosure, every part of which is not clearly visible
at all times from the main dance floor located upon the same floor in such
dancing academy or public dance hall.



 



 



SEC. 45.17.  DANCE HALLS – EXCEPTIONS.



 



   The provisions of Sections 45.15 and 45.16 of this article shall not
apply to any place wherein classic dancing is the principal subject taught.



 



 



SEC. 45.19.  DISPLAY OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA TO MINORS.



   (Added By Ord. No. 153,791, Eff. 6/16/80.)



 



   A.   Management.  (Amended by Ord. No. 174,793, Eff. 10/6/02.)



 



   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person in charge or control of any
business establishment where drug paraphernalia is displayed for sale,
offered for sale or sold, to knowingly allow or permit a minor, not
accompanied by one or both of his or her parents or by his or her legal
guardian, to enter and remain within any business establishment where drug
paraphernalia is displayed for sale, offered for sale or sold.



 



   2.   It shall be unlawful for any person in charge or control of a
business establishment where drug paraphernalia is displayed for sale,
offered for sale, or sold, to fail to display and maintain or fail to cause
to be displayed and maintained, at least one sign stating that a minor may
not enter unless accompanied by one or both of his or her parents or by his
or her legal guardian.  These signs shall be placed in a conspicuous
location near each public entrance to the business establishment where drug
paraphernalia is displayed for sale, offered for sale, or sold.



 



   3.   In the event a substantial number of the public invitees or
patrons of a business establishment where drug paraphernalia is displayed for
sale, offered for sale or sold, uses a language other than English as a
primary language, any sign required pursuant to this section shall be worded
in both English and the language or languages involved.



 



   B.   Minors.  In the event a sign or signs have been posted as
required by Subsection A above, it shall be unlawful for a minor to enter any
business establishment where drug paraphernalia is displayed for sale,
offered for sale or sold, unless a minor is accompanied by one or both of his
or her parents or by his or her legal guardian.  (Amended by Ord. No.
174,793, Eff. 10/6/02.)



 



   C.   Definitions.



 



   1.   “Drug paraphernalia,” including but not limited to one or
more of those items identified in that list set forth in Subdivision 3
hereinbelow, shall mean any device designed primarily for use by individuals
for the smoking or ingestion of marijuana, hashish, hashish oil, cocaine, or
any other “controlled substance,” as that term is defined in the Health
and Safety Code of the State of California.



 



   2.   A device “designed primarily for” such smoking or ingestion
set forth in Subdivision 1 above is a device which has been fabricated,
constructed, altered, adjusted, or marked especially for use in the smoking
or ingestion of marijuana, hashish, hashish oil, cocaine, or any other
“controlled substance,” and is peculiarly adapted to such purposes by
virtue of a distinctive feature or combination of features associated with
drug paraphernalia, notwithstanding that it might also be possible to use
such service for some other purpose.



 



   3.   Includable Items or Devices:



 



   (a)   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or ceramic
pipes, with or without screens, permanent or otherwise, heads, or punctured
metal bowls;



 



   (b)   A device constructed so as to prevent the escape of smoke into
the air and to channel smoke into a chamber where it may be accumulated to
permit inhalation or ingestion of larger quantities of smoke than would
otherwise be possible, whether the device is known as a “bong,” or
otherwise;



 



   (c)   A smokable pipe constructed with a receptacle or container in
which water or other liquid may be placed into which smoke passes and is
cooled in the process of being inhaled or ingested;



 



   (d)   A smokable pipe which contains a heating unit, whether the
device is known as an “electric pipe,” or otherwise;



 



   (e)   A device constructed so as to permit the simultaneous mixing
and ingestion of smoke and nitrous oxide or other compressed gas, whether the
device is known as a “buzz bomb,” or otherwise;



 



   (f)   A canister, container or other device with a tube, nozzle or
other similar arrangement attached thereto so constructed as to permit the
forcing of smoke accumulated therein into the user’s lungs under pressure;



 



   (g)   A device for holding a cigarette, whether the device is known
as a “roach clip,” or otherwise;



 



   (h)   A spoon for ingestion through the nose;



 



   (i)   A straw or tube for ingestion through the nose or mouth.



 



 



SEC. 45.19.5.  RESTRICTIONS ON LOCATIONS WHERE DRUG PARAPHERNALIA MAY BE
SOLD.



   (Added by Ord. No. 174,793, Eff. 10/6/02.)



 



   A.   Purpose.  Regulating the location where business
establishments that display or offer for sale drug paraphernalia is a
reasonable and necessary means to protect and promote the general welfare of
the children and minors of the City of Los Angeles exposed to illegal drugs.



 



   The regulations promote the general welfare and temperance of children
and minors and are intended to help reduce the illegal consumption and
purchase of illegal drugs by children and minors by limiting their exposure
to drug paraphernalia.



 



   B.   Definitions.  The following words and phrases, whenever used
in this section, shall be construed as defined in this section.  Words and
phrases not defined here shall be construed as defined in Sections 11.01, and
12.03 of this Code.



 



   1.   “Drug paraphernalia,” including but not limited to one or
more of those items identified in that list set forth in Subdivision 3 below,
shall mean any device designed primarily for use by individuals for the
smoking or ingestion of marijuana, hashish, hashish oil, cocaine, or any
other “controlled substance,” as that term is defined in the Health and
Safety Code of the State of California.



 



   2.   A device “designed primarily for” the smoking or ingestion
set forth in Subdivision 1 above is a device, which has been fabricated,
constructed, altered, adjusted, or marked especially for use in the smoking
or ingestion of marijuana, hashish, hashish oil, cocaine, or any other
“controlled substance,” and is peculiarly adapted to that purposes by
virtue of a distinctive feature or combination of features associated with
drug paraphernalia, notwithstanding that it might also be possible to use the
device for some other purpose.



 



   3.   Includable Items or Devices:



 



   (a)   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or ceramic
pipes, with or without screens, permanent or otherwise, heads, or punctured
metal bowls;



 



   (b)   A device constructed so as to prevent the escape of smoke into
the air and to channel smoke into a chamber where it may be accumulated to
permit inhalation or ingestion of larger quantities of smoke than would
otherwise be possible, whether the device is known as a “bong,” or
otherwise;



 



   (c)   A smokable pipe constructed with a receptacle or container in
which water or other liquid may be placed into which smoke passes and is
cooled in the process of being inhaled or ingested;



 



   (d)   A smokable pipe which contains a heating unit, whether the
device is known as an “electric pipe,” or otherwise;



 



   (e)   A device constructed so as to permit the simultaneous mixing
and ingestion of smoke and nitrous oxide or other compressed gas, whether the
device is known as a “buzz bomb,” or otherwise;



 



   (f)   A canister, container or other device with a tube, nozzle or
other similar arrangement attached and so constructed as to permit the
forcing of accumulated smoke into the user’s lungs under pressure;



 



   (g)   A device for holding a cigarette, whether the device is known
as a “roach clip,” or otherwise;



 



   (h)   A spoon for ingestion through the nose;



 



   (i)   A straw or tube for ingestion through the nose or mouth.



 



   4.   “Public Library” - A place in which literary, musical,
artistic, or reference materials, such as books, manuscripts, newspapers,
recordings, or films, are kept for use but not for sale, which is under the
control, operation or management of the City Board of Library Commissioners.



 



   5.   “Public Park” - A park, playground, swimming pool, beach,
pier, reservoir, golf course or similar athletic field within the City of Los
Angeles, which is under the control, operation or management of the City
Board of Recreation and Park Commissioners or the County Department of
Beaches.



 



   6.   “Religious Institution” - A building that is used primarily
for religious worship and related religious activities.



 



   7.   “Schools” - An institution of learning for minors, whether
public or private, which offers instruction in those courses of study
required by the California Education Code or which is maintained pursuant to
standards set by the State Board of Education. This definition includes
kindergarten, elementary, junior high, senior high or any special institution
of learning under the jurisdiction of the State Department of Education, but
it does not include a vocational or professional institution or an
institution of higher education, including a community or junior college,
college or university.



 



   C.   Prohibitions. 



 



   1.   No person shall operate a business establishment where drug
paraphernalia is displayed for sale, offered for sale or sold, within 500
feet of any school, religious institution, public library or public park.



 



   2.   The distance specified in this subsection shall be the
horizontal distance measured in a straight line from the property line of a
school, religious institution, public library or public park to the closest
exterior structural wall of the business establishment without regard to
intervening structures.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 5.1
MEDICAL MARIJUANA



 




(Repealed by Ord. No. 185,343, Eff. 1/1/18.)




 




[Editor's note: For current cannabis procedures, see Chapter X, Article 4.
For commercial cannabis activity, see Chapter X, Article 5.]




 



 



 



ARTICLE 5.2
CANNABIS REGULATION AND ENFORCEMENT



 




(Added by Ord. No. 184,841, Eff. 4/4/17.)











[Editor's note: Article enacted pursuant to Proposition M, adopted by the
voters at the election on March 7, 2017.]




 



 



Section



45.19.7.1   Repeal of Proposition D (Medical Marijuana).



45.19.7.2   Council Authority to Regulate Cannabis Related Activity after
Public Hearings and Priority of Dispensaries Compliant with Proposition D.



45.19.7.3   Enforcement, Penalties and Disconnection of Utilities for
Unlawful Cannabis Related Activity.



 



 



SEC. 45.19.7.1.  REPEAL OF PROPOSITION D (MEDICAL MARIJUANA).



   (Added by Ord. No. 184,841, Eff. 4/4/17.)



 



   The voters of the City of Los Angeles adopted Article 5.1 of Chapter IV
of the Los Angeles Municipal Code regarding medical marijuana (Sections
45.19.6 through 45.19.6.9) as part of Proposition D, a referendum submitted
to the voters by the City Council at the election held on May 21, 2013.  The
Council shall adopt an ordinance repealing these provisions of Proposition D
(Sections 45.19.6 through 45.19.6.9) effective January 1, 2018, unless the
Council adopts a Resolution, by majority vote, specifying another date for
the repeal.  The Council retains and possesses authority to amend, by
ordinance, these provisions of Proposition D prior to its repeal.



 



 



SEC. 45.19.7.2.  COUNCIL AUTHORITY TO REGULATE CANNABIS RELATED ACTIVITY
AFTER PUBLIC HEARINGS AND PRIORITY OF DISPENSARIES COMPLIANT WITH PROPOSITION
D.



   (Added by Ord. No. 184,841, Eff. 4/4/17.)



 



   A.   Council Authority.  The City retains and possesses complete
authority to regulate all aspects of cannabis related activity, including,
without limitation, the authority of the Council to adopt ordinances amending
any of the provisions of this Article and/or any other provision of City law
regarding cannabis related activity, other than taxation provisions to the
extent that voter approval of any changes to taxation provisions is required
under the State Constitution.



 



   B.   Public Hearings.  The City intends to adopt a comprehensive
regulatory process and structure for all cannabis related activity by
September 30, 2017.  Prior to the creation of a comprehensive regulatory
process and structure for cultivation, processing, distribution, sale and
other cannabis related activity, including enforcement of any licensing and
related oversight (i.e., the "commercialization" of cannabis), the Council
shall convene public hearings in the City involving all stakeholders in the
process of developing the rules, regulations and ordinances necessary to
regulate the safe commercialization of cannabis, including, but not limited
to, Neighborhood Councils, police officers, school officials, probation
officers, civic and service organizations, chambers of commerce, cannabis
related industries and others.  The public hearings shall include
consideration and attempted resolution of matters including:



 



   1.   Rules concerning who may qualify to operate in any of the
phases of commercialization of cannabis;



 



   2.   Penalties, fines, and other enforcement tools needed to ensure
strict compliance with licensing to avoid the unlawful conduct of cannabis
related activities in the City;



 



   3.   Regulation of transportation of cannabis products within the
City;



 



   4.   Siting of all buildings and facilities involved in all phases
of commercialization of cannabis;



 



   5.   Preventing the over-concentration of businesses involved in
commercialization of cannabis;



 



   6.   Determinations of any necessary land use requirements such as
distances to schools, parks, libraries, residences, liquor stores, stores
selling candy to children, and other such matters affecting the locations of
stores and facilities involved in commercialization of cannabis;



 



   7.   Constitutional and appropriate measures regarding advertising
commercialization of cannabis in such a way as to prohibit exposure to anyone
under the age of 21;



 



   8.   Updated training and protocols to enable police officers to
enforce laws against driving while under the influence of cannabis;



 



   9.   Requirements for auto rental agencies, particularly at
airports, to advise visitors to the City regarding the rules concerning
driving while under the influence, and other cannabis regulations, of which
visitors may not be aware;



 



   10.   Historical issues of social equity and social justice related
to the commercialization of cannabis;



 



   11.   Issues regarding how the City addresses compliance,
complaints, and civil or criminal proceedings related to Proposition D
medical marijuana dispensaries; and



 



   12.   Any and all other issues that may arise regarding the
commercialization of cannabis in the City.



 



   C.   Priority of Proposition D Compliant Dispensaries.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 185,849, Eff. 11/28/18.)  An existing medical marijuana dispensary
("EMMD") that is operating in compliance with the limited immunity provisions
(Los Angeles Municipal Code Section 45.19.6.3) and tax provisions (Los
Angeles Municipal Code Section 21.50) of Proposition D, may continue to
operate within the City at the one location identified in its original or
amended business tax registration certificate (BTRC) as of October 19, 2018,
until such time that the EMMD applies for and receives a final response to
its application for a City permit or license for commercial cannabis activity
being conducted at that location.  An EMMD that requested an amended BTRC
prior to October 19, 2018, shall not be prohibited from operating at a new
location approved by the Department of Cannabis Regulation.  An EMMD that
requested an amended BTRC between October 19, 2018, and November 30, 2018,
shall not be prohibited from operating at a new location approved by DCR on
the condition that DCR shall not approve the request without first seeking
and considering a recommendation from the City Councilmember in whose
district the EMMD is requesting to relocate.  An EMMD that does not request
an amended BTRC by November 30, 2018, may continue to operate only at the
location on its current BTRC until such time that the EMMD receives a final
response to its application for a City license for commercial cannabis
activity being conducted at that location.



 



   The City's designated licensing or permitting agency shall give
priority in processing applications of EMMDs that can demonstrate to the
City's designated licensing or permitting agency that the EMMD has operated
in compliance with the limited immunity and tax provisions of Proposition
D.  To avail itself of the terms of this Section, including the priority
processing, an EMMD must apply for a City permit or license within sixty
calendar days of the first date that applications are made available for
commercial cannabis activity.  If the City issues the EMMD a license or
permit for commercial cannabis activity, the EMMD shall continue to operate
at its location within the City in accordance with the rules and regulations
set forth by the City.



 



 



SEC. 45.19.7.3.  ENFORCEMENT, PENALTIES AND DISCONNECTION OF UTILITIES FOR
UNLAWFUL CANNABIS RELATED ACTIVITY.



   (Added by Ord. No. 184,841, Eff. 4/4/17.)



 



   A.   This Section is effective January 1, 2018 and applies to all
entities and persons engaging in medical and/or non-medical cannabis related
activity, who are legally required to, but do not have, a City issued
license, permit or authorization ("Establishment").



 



   B.   It is unlawful to: (1) Own, set up or operate an Establishment,
(2) Participate as an employee, contractor, agent or volunteer or in any
other capacity in an Establishment, (3) Use any portion or portion of any
parcel of land as an Establishment, or to (4) Lease, rent to, or otherwise
allow an Establishment to occupy any parcel or portion of parcel of land.



 



   C.   A violation of subsection B. is a public nuisance and may be
abated by the City or by the City Attorney, on behalf of the people of the
State of California, as a nuisance by means of a restraining order,
injunction or any other order or judgment in law or equity issued by a court
of competent jurisdiction.  The City or the City Attorney, on behalf of the
people of the State of California, may seek injunctive relief to enjoin
violations of, or to compel compliance with this Section or seek any other
relief or remedy available at law or equity.  Each day that a violation
continues is deemed to be a new and separate offense and subject to a maximum
civil penalty of $20,000 for each and every offense.



 



   D.   Any person violating subsection B. shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not more than $1,000.00 or by
imprisonment in the County Jail for a period of not more than six months, or
by both a fine and imprisonment.  Each day that a violation continues is
deemed to be a new and separate offense.



 



   E.   The Department of Water and Power is authorized to disconnect
utilities for Establishments.  The circumstances and manner in which
disconnection shall occur shall be specified by the City Council after
receiving input from the Department of Water and Power.



 



   F.   The remedies specified in this Section are cumulative and in
addition to any other remedies available under state or local law for a
violation of this Code.



 



   G.   Nothing in this Section shall be construed as requiring the
City to allow, permit, license, authorize or otherwise regulate medical or
non-medical cannabis, or as abridging the City's police power with respect to
enforcement regarding medical or non-medical cannabis.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 5.2.5
RESTRICTIONS ON SIGNS ADVERTISING TOBACCO PRODUCTS



 



 



Section



45.20   Purpose.



45.21   Definitions.



45.22   Prohibitions.



45.23   Exceptions.



45.24   Enforcement.



45.25   Operative Date.



 



 



SEC. 45.20.  PURPOSE.



   (Article and Section Added by Ord. No. 172,212, Eff. 10/23/98, Oper.
10/23/99.)



 



   Regulating tobacco product advertising on certain signs is a reasonable
and necessary means to protect and promote the general welfare of the
children and minors of the City of Los Angeles exposed to certain signs
advertising tobacco products.



 



   The Supreme Court has repeatedly recognized that children and minors
deserve special solicitude because they lack the ability to assess and fully
analyze the information presented through commercial advertising.



 



   Signs which can be seen from the outdoors are a unique and
distinguishable medium of advertising which subjects the general public to
involuntary and unavoidable forms of solicitation.



 



   The regulations promote the general welfare and temperance of children
and minors and are intended to help reduce the illegal consumption and
purchase of tobacco products by children and minors by limiting their
exposure to the advertising of tobacco products on certain on-site and
off-site signs.



 



 



SEC. 45.21.  DEFINITIONS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 172,212, Eff. 10/23/98, Oper. 10/23/99.)



 



   The following words and phrases, whenever used in this article, shall
be construed as defined in this section.  Words and phrases not defined
herein shall be construed as defined in Sections 11.01, 12.03 and 91.6203 of
this Code.



 



   A.   Entertainment Park - a commercial enterprise that offers rides,
games and other entertainment.



 



   B.   Public Parks and Playgrounds - an area of land, beach or pier
set aside for public recreational and/or ornamental purposes, which is under
the control, operation or management of a governmental agency, and wherein
there may be an area containing, but not limited to, equipment such as swings
and seesaws, athletic fields, baseball diamonds, basketball courts, tennis
courts, or swimming pools.



 



   C.   Publicly Visible Location - any outdoor location visible to the
general public including, but not limited to, off-site signs, pole signs,
wall signs, projecting signs, monument signs, illuminated architectural
canopy signs, marquee signs, mural signs, freestanding signboards, and roof
signs, and, including, any location that is inside a building wherein the
sign is attached to, affixed to, leaning against, or otherwise placed within
three feet of any window or door in such a manner that it is visible from
outside the building.  The term “publicly visible location” shall not
include any location that is visible only by those inside the building
premises.



 



   D.   Religious Institution - any building or structure that is
maintained and used exclusively for religious worship, including customary
incidental, educational and social activities in conjunction therewith.



 



   E.   Residential Use - any lot that is identified in the adopted
Community Plan as having a Commercial Land Use designation that permits
residential uses.



 



   F.   Residential Zone - any RA, RE, RS, R1, RU, RW1, R2, RD, RMP,
RW2, R3, R4 or R5 zoned lot as set forth in Section 12.04 of this Code.



 



   G.   Schools - an institution of learning for minors, whether public
or private, which offers instruction in those courses of study required by
the California Education Code or which is maintained pursuant to standards
set by the State Board of Education. This definition includes kindergarten,
elementary, junior high, senior high or any special institution of learning
under the jurisdiction of the State Department of Education, but it does not
include a vocational or professional institution or an institution of higher
education, including a community or junior college, college or university.



 



   H.   Tobacco Products - any substance containing tobacco leaf,
including but not limited to cigarettes, cigars, pipes, tobacco snuff,
chewing tobacco and dipping tobacco; cigarette papers; or any other
instrument or paraphernalia that is designed for the smoking or ingestion of
tobacco or products prepared from tobacco.



 



   I.   Youth Center - any designated indoor, public, private or
parochial facility, other than a private residence or a multiple dwelling
unit, which contains programs which provide, on a regular basis, activities
or services for persons who have not yet reached the age of 18 years,
including, but not limited to, community-based programs, after-school
programs, weekend programs, violence prevention programs, leadership
development programs, vocational programs, substance abuse prevention
programs, individual or group counseling, remedial, tutorial or other
educational assistance or enrichment, music, art, dance and other
recreational or cultural activities, physical fitness activities and sports
programs.



 



 



SEC. 45.22.  PROHIBITIONS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 172,212, Eff. 10/23/98, Oper. 10/23/99.)



 



   A.   No person shall place, permit, or maintain on any on-site or
off- site sign, a poster, placard, device, graphic display, or any other form
of advertising that advertises tobacco products in publicly visible locations
within 1,000 feet of any residential zone, residential use, school, religious
institution, entertainment park, youth center, or public park or playground
except as permitted under Section 45.23.



 



   B.   The distance specified in this section shall be the horizontal
distance measured in a straight line from the property line of a
residentially zoned property, residential use, school, religious institution,
entertainment park, youth center, or the perimeter of a public park or
playground to the closest visible edge of the advertising sign face without
regard to intervening structures.



 



 



SEC. 45.23.  EXCEPTIONS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 172,212, Eff. 10/23/98, Oper. 10/23/99.)



 



   The prohibitions set forth in this article shall not apply to the
following signs advertising tobacco products.  This section shall not be
construed to permit any sign that is otherwise restricted or prohibited by
law.



 



   A.   The placement of signs advertising tobacco products:



 



   (1)   Inside the premises of a building that lawfully sells tobacco
products, unless such sign is attached to, affixed to, leaning against, or
otherwise placed within three feet of any window or door in such a manner
that it is visible from outside the building; or



 



   (2)   On commercial vehicles used exclusively for transporting
tobacco products.



 



   B.   Any on-site sign that contains the name or slogan of a business
that lawfully sells tobacco products that has been placed at or upon the
business premises for the purpose of identifying the business.



 



   C.   Any on-site sign that contains only generic word descriptions
of cigarettes, cigars, tobacco, smoke, or any other generic description of
tobacco products.



 



   D.   Any neon or electrically charged sign, if otherwise allowed by
the Los Angeles Municipal Code, within the premises of a building that
lawfully sells tobacco products that is provided as part of a promotion of a
particular brand of tobacco products, unless such sign is attached to,
affixed to, leaning against, or otherwise placed within three feet of any
window or door in such a manner that it is visible from outside the building.



 



   E.   Any sign located inside a stadium, arena, or amphitheater,
provided the sign cannot be seen from outside the stadium, arena, or
amphitheater.



 



   F.   Any sign or other form of advertising on a Metropolitan Transit
Authority vehicle, or any other government operated, contracted or licensed
mode or method of transportation.  This exception shall not apply to any
mode or method of transportation operated, contracted or licensed by the City
of Los Angeles.



 



   G.   The display of public service messages or similar announcement
opposing the use of tobacco products or that are designed to encourage minors
to refrain from using or purchasing tobacco products.  However, this
subsection shall not be construed to permit an advertisement which purports
to oppose the use of tobacco products when that message is conveyed in
conjunction with the display of a recognized tobacco company logo, trademark
or name used for marketing or promotion of tobacco products.



 



   H.   Any sign advertising of tobacco products that is otherwise
consistent with the signage provisions contained in Article IV and Exhibit I
of the Reciprocal Easement and Environmental Restriction Agreement by and
among the City of Los Angeles, the Community Redevelopment Agency of the City
of Los Angeles, and L. A. Arena Land Company, Inc., recorded in the official
records of the County of Los Angeles as Instrument No. 95801502.



   I.   The display of any non-commercial message.



 



 



SEC. 45.24.  ENFORCEMENT.



   (Added by Ord. No. 172,212, Eff. 10/23/98, Oper. 10/23/99.)



 



   Violations.  It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any
provision of this article.  Any person or who violates any of the provisions
of this article or causes or permits another person to violate any of the
provisions of this article is guilty of a misdemeanor.  Each violation of
the provisions of this article shall constitute a separate offense.



 



 



SEC. 45.25.  OPERATIVE DATE.



   (Added by Ord. No. 172,212, Eff. 10/23/98, Oper. 10/23/99.)



 



   The provisions of this article shall become operative 365 days from its
effective date.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 5.2.6
RESTRICTIONS ON SIGNS ADVERTISING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES



 




(Repealed by Ord. No. 174,413, Eff. 3/1/02.)




 



 



 



ARTICLE 5.4
PROHIBITION AGAINST HARASSMENT AND RETALIATION IN HOUSING BASED ON
IMMIGRATION OR CITIZENSHIP STATUS



 



Section



45.40   Findings and Purpose.



45.41   Definitions.



45.42   Prohibited Activities.



45.43   Exemptions.



45.44   Penalty.



45.45   Severability.



 



 



SEC. 45.40.  FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,797, Eff. 11/25/18.)



 



   The City Council finds and declares:



 



   That harassment and retaliation against a tenant on the basis of
immigration or citizenship status exists in the City of Los Angeles;



 



   That the existence of such harassment and retaliation poses a
substantial threat to the public health and welfare of large segments of the
population;



 



   That there is a shortage of decent, safe and sanitary housing in the
City of Los Angeles, resulting in a critically low vacancy factor;



 



   That such harassment and retaliation has an overall detrimental effect
upon the composition of the City, that it encourages the flight of families
from the City of Los Angeles, and results in the decline of stable,
intergenerational neighborhoods, the preservation of family life within the
City, and the reduction of social and recreational services for children and
their families;



 



   That such harassment and retaliation cuts across racial, ethnic and
economic lines, and falls most heavily on minority and single parent families
with children;



 



   That it is consistent with the Housing Element of the General Plan to
promote and ensure equal opportunities for all persons regardless of
immigration or citizenship status in rental housing in the City;



 



   That Section 1940.2 of the California Civil Code preserves the ability
of the City of Los Angeles to regulate and enforce prohibitions on harassment
and retaliation against a tenant on the basis of immigration or citizenship
status; and



 



   That because housing is a fundamental necessity of life, it is against
the public policy of the City of Los Angeles to harass or retaliate against a
tenant in rental housing upon the basis of immigration or citizenship status.



 



 



SEC. 45.41.  DEFINITIONS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,797, Eff. 11/25/18.)



 



   A.   Landlord:  An owner, lessor or sublessor, (including any
person, firm, corporation, partnership, or other entity) who receives or is
entitled to receive Rent for the use of any rental unit, or the agent,
representative or successor of any of the foregoing.



 



   B.   Rent:  The consideration, including any bonus, benefits or
gratuity, demanded or received by a Landlord for or in connection with the
use or occupancy of a rental unit, including, but not limited to, monies
demanded or paid for the following: meals where required by the Landlord as a
condition of the tenancy; parking; furnishings; other housing services of any
kind; subletting; or security deposits.



 



   C.   Rental Units:  All residential real property, including, but
not limited to, dwelling units, efficiency dwelling units, guest rooms and
suites in the City of Los Angeles as defined in Section 12.03 of this Code,
rented or offered for Rent for living or dwelling purposes, the land and
buildings appurtenant thereto, and all housing services, privileges,
furnishings and facilities supplied in connection with the use or occupancy
thereof, including garage and parking facilities.  This term shall also
include mobile homes, whether Rent is paid for the mobile homes and the land
upon which the mobile home is located, or Rent is paid for the land alone. 
The term shall not include housing accommodations that are specifically
exempted from municipal regulation by state or federal law or administrative
regulation.



 



 



SEC. 45.42.  PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,797, Eff. 11/25/18.)



 



   It shall be unlawful for any Landlord, or any agent, employee or
contractor of such Landlord, to do or attempt to do any of the following:



 



   A.   Inquire as to the immigration or citizenship status of a
tenant, prospective tenant, occupant or prospective occupant of a Rental Unit.



 



   B.   Require any tenant, prospective tenant, occupant or prospective
occupant of a Rental Unit to make any statement, representation or
certification concerning his or her immigration or citizenship status.



 



   C.   Disclose or threaten to disclose to any person or entity
information regarding or relating to the immigration or citizenship status of
a tenant, prospective tenant, occupant, prospective occupant of a Rental Unit
or other person known to the Landlord to be associated with a tenant or
occupant.



 



 



SEC. 45.43.  EXEMPTIONS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,797, Eff. 11/25/18.)



 



   Nothing in this article shall prohibit:



 



   A.   An oral or written warning notice, given in good faith,
regarding conduct by a tenant, occupant, or guest that violates, may violate
or has violated the applicable rental agreement, lease, rules, regulations or
laws.



 



   B.   An oral or written explanation of the rental agreement, lease,
rules, regulations or laws given in good faith during the normal course of
business.



 



   C.   Complying with any legal obligation under federal or state law,
including, but not limited to, any legal obligation under any federal
government program that provides for Rent limitations or rental assistance to
a qualified tenant, or a subpoena, warrant or other judicial order issued by
a court.



 



   D.   Requesting, in good faith, information or documentation
necessary to determine or verify the financial qualifications of a
prospective tenant, or to determine or verify the identity of a prospective
tenant or prospective occupant.



 



 



SEC. 45.44.  PENALTY.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,797, Eff. 11/25/18.)



 



   A.   Violation of any provision of Section 45.42 shall be punishable
in accordance with Subdivision (m) of Section 11.00 of this Code.



 



   B.   Subsection A. notwithstanding, any person who violates any
provision of Section 45.42 for the purpose of, or with the intent of,
harassing or intimidating a tenant, prospective tenant, occupant, or
prospective occupant; retaliating against a tenant, prospective tenant,
occupant, or prospective occupant for the exercise of his or her rights;
influencing a tenant or occupant to vacate a dwelling, or recovering
possession of the dwelling; shall be punishable by a fine of $1,000 and by
imprisonment in the County Jail for a period of not more than six months. 
Nothing in this subsection requires a landlord to actually or constructively
evict a tenant in order to be in violation.



 



 



SEC. 45.45.  SEVERABILITY.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,797, Eff. 11/25/18.)



 



   If any subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this chapter is for
any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional, such decision shall not
affect the validity of the remaining portions of this ordinance.  The City
Council hereby declares that it would have adopted this section, and each and
every subsection, sentence, clause and phrase thereof not declared invalid or
unconstitutional, without regard to whether any portion of the ordinance
would be subsequently declared invalid or unconstitutional.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 5.5
PROHIBITION AGAINST DISCRIMINATION IN HOUSING BASED ON AGE



 



 



Section



45.50   Findings and Purpose.



45.51   Definitions.



45.52   Prohibited Activities.



45.53   Exemptions.



45.54   Financial Obligations Requirements Not Prohibited.



45.55   Remedies.



 



 



SEC. 45.50.  FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.



   (Added by Ord. No. 153,406,Eff. 3/8/80.)



 



   After public hearing and receipt of testimony, the City Council finds
and declares:



 



   That arbitrary discrimination against tenants on the basis of age,
parenthood, pregnancy, and potential or actual tenancy of a minor child
exists in the City of Los Angeles;



 



   That the existence of such discrimination poses a substantial threat to
the public health and welfare of large segments of the population;



 



   That there is a shortage of decent, safe, and sanitary housing in the
City of Los Angeles, resulting in a critically low vacancy factor;



 



   That such discrimination has an overall detrimental effect upon the
composition of the City, that it encourages the flight of families from the
City of Los Angeles, and results in the decline of stable, intergenerational
neighborhoods, the preservation of family life within the City, and the
reduction of social and recreational services for children and their families;



 



   That such discrimination cuts across all racial, ethnic, and economic
lines, and falls most heavily on minority and single parent families with
children;



 



   That it is consistent with the Housing Element of the General Plan to
promote and ensure equal opportunities for all persons regardless of age or
family composition in rental housing in the City;



 



   That because housing is a fundamental necessity of life, it is against
the public policy of the City of Los Angeles to discriminate in rental
housing upon the basis of age, parenthood, pregnancy, or the potential or
actual tenancy of a minor child.



 



 



SEC. 45.51.  DEFINITIONS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 153,406, Eff. 3/8/80.)



 



   A.   Elderly persons:  Persons 62 years of age or older.



 



   B.   Housing accommodation. (Amended by Ord. No. 155,933, Eff.
10/21/81.)



 



   (1)   Any residential rental unit consisting of one or more rooms in
which cooking facilities are available; or



 



   (2)   Any space within a mobilehome park or trailerpark used for a
structure or vehicle for human habitation. For purposes of this article, a
mobilehome park or trailerpark is defined as an area of land where one or
more spaces are rented or leased, or held out for rent or lease, for
structures or vehicles for human habitation.



 



   C.   Minor child:  Any natural person under the age of 18 years.



 



   D.   Person:  Any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture,
association, corporation, estate, or trust.



 



 



SEC. 45.52.  PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.



   (Added by Ord. No. 153,406, Eff. 3/8/80.):



 



   It shall be unlawful for any person having a housing accommodation for
rent or lease, or any authorized agent or employee of such person, to do or
attempt to do any of the following:



 



   A.   Refuse to rent or lease a housing accommodation, refuse to
negotiate for the rental or lease of a housing accommodation, or otherwise
deny to or withhold from, any person or persons, a housing accommodation on
the basis of age, parenthood, pregnancy, or the potential or actual tenancy
of a minor child.



 



   B.   Discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of the rental or lease of a housing accommodation, or in the
provision of services, facilities, or benefits, in connection therewith, on
the basis of age, parenthood, pregnancy, or the potential or actual tenancy
of a minor child. However, nothing herein shall preclude any person from
imposing restrictions on the use of common areas, facilities, and services
which are reasonably necessary to protect the health and safety of a minor
child.



 



   C.   Represent to any person on the basis of age, parenthood,
pregnancy, or the potential or actual tenancy of a minor child that a housing
accommodation is not available for inspection, rental, or lease when such
housing accommodation is, in fact, available.



 



   D.   Make, print, or publish; or cause to be made, printed, or
published any notice, statement, sign, advertisement, application, or
contract with regard to a housing accommodation offered by that person that
indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination with respect to age,
parenthood, pregnancy, or the potential or actual tenancy of a minor child.



 



   E.   Include in any rental agreement or lease for a housing
accommodation, a clause or condition providing that as a condition of
continued tenancy, the tenants shall remain childless or shall not bear
children or otherwise not maintain a household with a person of a certain age.



 



 



SEC. 45.53.  EXEMPTIONS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 153,406, Eff. 3/8/80.)



 



   Nothing contained in this article shall apply to or be construed:



 



   A.   To affect a housing project or development owned by a nonprofit
corporation during such period of time as it is operated exclusively for
elderly persons and their spouses (including, but not limited to, housing
accommodations subsidized under the Section 8 of the Housing Act of 1974 and
Section 202 of the Housing Act of 1959 federal housing programs).



 



   B.   To affect any state licensed nursing home, convalescent home,
or community care facility.



 



   C.   To affect any housing project or development whose combined
total number of housing accommodations exceeds 250 in number, whether located
on the same or on one or more contiguous parcels of property, if greater than
50% of the housing accommodations are rented to elderly persons and their
spouses, provided that no less than 25% of its total housing accommodations
are designated for rental or lease to tenants with a minor child or children.
The person owning or having authorized control of the rental housing project
or development shall have discretion to determine the location of those
housing accommodations to be designated for tenants with a minor child or
children. (Redesignated Subsec. “C” by Ord. No. 153,942, Eff. 7/1/80.)



 



 



SEC. 45.54.  FINANCIAL OBLIGATIONS REQUIREMENTS NOT PROHIBITED.



   (Added By Ord. No. 153,406, Eff. 3/8/80.)



 



   This article shall not prohibit the person having a housing
accommodation for rent or lease or any authorized agent or employee of such
person from requiring the same financial obligation from all prospective
tenants. However, no discrimination in the amount or manner of payment of
said financial obligation shall be permitted based upon age, parenthood,
pregnancy, or the potential or actual tenancy of a minor child.



 



 



SEC. 45.55.  REMEDIES.



   (Added by Ord. No. 153,406, Eff. 3/8/80.)



 



   A.   Any person who violates the provisions of this article shall be
liable for actual damages, if any, with regard to each and every such
violation and such additional amount as may be determined by a jury, or the
court sitting without a jury, up to three times the amount of actual damages
or three times an amount equal to one month’s rent of the housing
accommodation involved, whichever is greater, as well as reasonable
attorneys’ fees and costs of litigation.



 



   B.   Violations of any of the provisions of this article shall not
constitute a misdemeanor or infraction.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 5.6
PROHIBITION AGAINST DISCRIMINATION BASED ON STUDENT STATUS



 




(Article Added by Ord. No. 156,426, Eff. 4/12/82.)




 



 



Section



45.60   Findings and Purpose.



45.61   Definitions.



45.62   Prohibited Activities.



45.63   Discrimination Against Non-students.



45.64   Remedies.



 



 



SEC. 45.60.  FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.



 



   After public hearing receipt of testimony, the City Council finds and
declares:



 



   That discrimination against tenants on the basis of their status as
students exists in the City of Los Angeles;



 



   That there is a shortage of decent, safe, and sanitary housing in the
City of Los Angeles;



 



   That students, who generally do not have the economic resources to buy
homes, must often lie in close proximity to their campus so they can commute
between their school, their home and their job; however, because of
discrimination on the basis of their status as student, these students are
forced to live further from campus than would otherwise be necessary;



 



   That such discrimination cuts across all racial, ethnic and economic
lines;



 



   That because housing is a fundamental necessity of life, it is against
the public policy of the City of Los Angeles to discriminate in rental
housing upon the basis of a tenant’s status as a student.



 



 



SEC. 45.61.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   The following words and phrases, whenever used in this article, shall
be construed as defined in this section. Words and phrases not defined herein
shall be construed as defined in Section 12.03 of this Code, if defined
therein.



 



   A.   Housing Services: Services connected with the use or occupancy
of a rental unit including but not limited to, utilities (including light,
heat, water and telephone), ordinary repairs or replacement, and maintenance,
including painting. This term shall also include the provision of elevator
service, laundry facilities and privileges, common recreational facilities,
janitor service, resident manager, refuse removal, furnishings, food service,
parking and any other benefits, privileges or facilities.



 



   B.   Landlord: An owner, lessor, or sublessor, (including any
person, firm, corporation, partnership, or other entity) who receives or is
entitled to receive rent for the use of any rental unit, or the agent,
representative or successor of any of the foregoing.



 



   C.   Rent: The consideration, including any bonus, benefits or
gratuity, demanded or received by a landlord for or in connection with the
use or occupancy of a rental unit, including but not limited to monies
demanded or paid for the following: meals where required by the landlord as a
condition of the tenancy; parking; furnishings; other housing services of any
kind; subletting; or security deposits.



 



   D.   Rental Units: All dwelling units, efficiency dwelling units,
guest rooms, and suites in the City of Los Angeles, as defined in Section
12.03 of this Code, rented or offered for rent for living or dwelling
purposes, the land and buildings appurtenant thereto, and all housing
services, privileges, furnishings and facilities supplied in connection with
the use or occupancy thereof, including garage and parking facilities. This
term shall also include mobile homes, whether rent is paid for the mobile
homes and the land upon which the mobile home is located, or rent is paid for
the land alone. The term shall not include:



 



   1.   Housing accommodations in any hospital; state licensed
community care facility; convent; monastery; extended medical care facility;
asylum; fraternity or sorority house; or housing accommodations owned,
operated, leased or managed primarily for occupancy by its students by an
institution of higher education, a  vocational school, a high school, or an
elementary school.



 



   2.   Housing accommodations designed and operated exclusively for
senior citizens or retirees, and their spouses, or retirement homes.



 



   3.   Housing accommodations which are reserved exclusively for
either single or married students or for students with minor dependents who
live with them.



 



   4.   Housing accommodations which a government unit, agency or
authority owns, operates, or manages, or which are specifically exempted from
municipal regulation by state or federal law or administrative regulation.



 



   E.   Student: Any person enrolled in an institution of higher
education, vocational school, high school, or elementary school.



 



 



SEC. 45.62.  PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.



 



   A landlord shall not do or attempt to do any of the following:



 



   A.   Refuse to rent or lease a rental unit, refuse to negotiate for
the rental or lease of a rental unit, evict from a rental unit, or otherwise
deny to or withhold a rental unit from any person on the basis of the
person’s status as a student.



 



   B.   Rent or lease a rental unit on less favorable terms, conditions
or privileges, or discriminate in the provision of housing services to any
person on the basis of the person’s status as a student.



 



   C.   Represent to any person that a rental unit is not available for
inspection, rental or lease when such rental unit is, in fact, available on
the basis of the person’s status as a student.



 



   D.   Make, print, publish, or cause to be made, printed, or
published any notice, statement, sign, advertisement, application, or
contract with regard to a rental unit that indicates any preference,
limitation, or discrimination with respect to a person’s status as a
student.



 



 



SEC. 45.63.  DISCRIMINATION AGAINST NON-STUDENTS.



 



   Nothing contained in this article shall be construed to authorize any
landlord to discriminate against any person on the basis of the fact that the
person is not a student.



 



 



SEC. 45.64.  REMEDIES.



 



   A.   Any landlord who violates the provisions of this article shall
be subject to injunctive relief and shall be liable for actual damages, if
any, with regard to each and every such violation and such additional amount
as may be determined by a jury, or the court sitting without a jury, up to
three times the amount of actual damages or three times an amount equal to
one month’s rent of the rental unit involved, whichever is greater, as well
as reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs of litigation.



 



   B.   Violations of any of the provisions of this article shall not
constitute a misdemeanor or infraction.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 5.6.1
PROTECTING AFFORDABLE HOUSING OPPORTUNITIES FOR PERSONS USING RENTAL
ASSISTANCE OR OTHER SOURCES OF INCOME AS PAYMENT



 




(Article Added by Ord. No. 186,191, Eff. 1/1/20.)




 



 



Section



45.65   Findings and Purpose.



45.66   Definitions.



45.67   Prohibited Activities.



45.68   Remedies.



45.69   Effective Date.



 



 



SEC. 45.65.  FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.



 



   The City Council finds and declares:



 



   Housing is a fundamental necessity of life.  Housing plays a major
role in defining quality of life, security, connection to community, and
access to opportunity.  In recognition of this, Objective 3.1 of the City's
Housing Element of its General Plan requires the City to ensure that housing
opportunities are accessible to all residents without discrimination on the
basis of race, ancestry, sex, national origin, color, religion, sexual
orientation, marital status, familial status, age, disability (including
HIV/AIDS), and student status.



 



   The Housing Authority of the City of Los Angeles reports a shortage of
landlords participating in its Section 8 rental subsidy program.  At
present, only 53% of Section 8 voucher holders are successful in finding a
unit due to what is believed to be a combination of factors including
discrimination against Section 8 voucher holders, low vacancy rates, and the
high cost of housing.  These findings are consistent with a study conducted
on behalf of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, which
found that 76.4% of landlords in the City contacted by phone in response to
advertisements for rental units responded that they did not accept Section 8
vouchers. The average denial rate was 81.5% in low poverty areas, 80.7% in
medium poverty areas, and 66% in high poverty areas.  Such rates were lower
in jurisdictions with local laws against voucher discrimination as compared
to those without such protections.  These findings suggest that local laws
that prohibit discrimination based upon source of income increase landlords'
participation in Section 8 rental subsidy programs.



 



   To further Objective 3.1 of the City's General Plan and to address the
local housing crisis created by some landlords' lack of participation in the
Section 8 rental subsidy program, this article prohibits discrimination based
upon a person's use of rental assistance or other sources of income as
payment for rent.



 



 



SEC. 45.66.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   The following words and phrases, whenever used in this article, shall
be construed as defined in this section.  Words and phrases not defined
herein shall be construed as defined in Section 12.03 of this Code, if
defined therein.



 



   A.   Housing Accommodation.  All dwelling units, efficiency
dwelling units, guest rooms, and suites, as defined in Section 12.03 of this
Code; all housing accommodations as defined in Government Code Section 12927;
and duplexes, condominiums, and single family residences in the City of Los
Angeles, rented or offered for rent for living or dwelling purposes, the land
and buildings appurtenant thereto, and all housing services, utilities,
privileges, furnishings and facilities supplied in connection with the use or
occupancy thereof, including garage and parking facilities.  This term shall
also include mobile homes, whether rent is paid for the mobile home and the
land upon which the mobile home is located or for the land alone.



 



   B.   Person.  Any natural person, firm, association, partnership,
limited partnership, organization, entity, business, trust, limited liability
company, joint venture, corporation, estate, or trust and any agent or
employee thereof.



 



   C.   City.  The City of Los Angeles.



 



   D.   Source of Income.  Any lawful source of income, rental
assistance, subsidy, or financial aid from any person, including but not
limited to a federal, state or local  government, or non-profit or
charitable agency, whether paid directly to the program participant, landlord
or his or her representative, including but not limited to the Section 8
voucher program, the Los Angeles Homeless Services Authority's Rapid
Re-Housing program or any other housing subsidy program, homeless assistance
or prevention program or security deposit assistance program.



 



 



SEC. 45.67.  PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.



 



   It shall be unlawful for any person offering for rent, renting, or
listing any housing accommodation to do or attempt to do any of the following:



 



   A.   Based upon a person's source of income, refuse to rent or
lease, or to continue to rent or lease, a housing accommodation; refuse to
enter into or renew a rental agreement, lease or housing assistance payment
contract; refuse to execute any documents required to enter into or renew a
rental agreement, lease or housing assistance payment contract; serve a
notice of termination of tenancy; seek to terminate or terminate a tenancy;
or otherwise deny or withhold, a housing accommodation or housing services or
amenities.



 



   B.   Apply different terms, conditions, restrictions, or privileges,
based upon a person’s source of income, in connection with the rental of a
housing accommodation, including but not limited to the setting of rates for
rental or lease, the establishment of damage deposits or other similar
financial conditions, or refuse access to or use of the common area or
facilities associated with a housing accommodation or refuse to make repairs
or improvements to a housing accommodation or real property associated with a
housing accommodation.



 



   C.   Represent to any person based upon their source of income that
a housing accommodation is unavailable for viewing for rental when such
housing accommodation is available for rent.



 



   D.   Make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or
published through any medium, any notice, statement, sign, advertisement,
application, or contract, with regard to any housing accommodation offered
for rent, including but not limited to the accepted form(s) of payment for
the housing accommodation, that indicates any preference, limitation, or
discrimination based upon a person's source of income



 



 



SEC. 45.68.  REMEDIES.



 



   A.   Civil Liability.  An aggrieved person may bring a civil action
for injunctive relief and damages.  The court may award to the person whose
rights are violated punitive damages in an amount no less than three times
the amount of actual damages or three times the amount of one month's rent
that the landlord charges for the housing accommodation at issue, whichever
is higher.  The court may also award reasonable attorney fees and costs of
the action.



 



   B.   Affirmative Defense.  Any person may assert a violation of
this article as an affirmative defense to an unlawful detainer action brought
pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure Section 1161, as amended.



 



   C.   Nonexclusive Remedies and Penalties.  The remedies provided in
this article are not exclusive, and nothing in this article shall preclude an
aggrieved person from seeking any other remedies provided by law.



 



 



SEC. 45.69.  EFFECTIVE DATE.



 



   The provisions of this ordinance shall take effect on January 1, 2020.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 5.7
PROHIBITION OF DISCRIMINATION IN MOBILEHOME PARKS AGAINST OWNERS OF
MOBILEHOMES BASED ON THE AGE OF THEIR MOBILEHOMES



 




(Art. 5.7, Chapter IV, Added by Ord, No. 158,897, Eff. 6/8/84.)




 



 



Section



45.70   Purpose.



45.71   Definitions.



45.72   Prohibited Activities.



45.73   Remedies.



 



 



SEC. 45.70.  PURPOSE.



 



   The purpose of the article is to prohibit arbitrary discrimination
against older mobilehomes.



 



 



SEC. 45.71.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   The following words and phrases, whenever used in this article, shall
be construed as defined in this section. Words and phrases not defined herein
shall be construed as defined in Section 12.03 of this Code, if defined
therein.



 



   A.   Mobilehome. A structure designed for human habitation and for
being moved on a street or highway under permit pursuant to Section 35790 of
the Vehicle Code. Mobilehome does not include a recreational vehicle, as
defined in Section 799.24 of the Civil Code or a commercial coach as defined
in Section 18218 of the Health and Safety Code.



 



   B.   Mobilehome Park. An area of land where two or more mobilehome
sites are rented, or offered for rent, to accommodate mobilehomes used for
human habitation.



 



   C.   Mobilehome Park Operator. The owner of a mobilehome park or an
agent or representative authorized to act on the owners behalf in connection
with matters relating to a tenancy in the park.



 



   D.   Services. Services connected with the use or occupancy of a
mobilehome site including but not limited to, utilities, laundry facilities
and privileges, common recreational facilities, janitor service, resident
manager, refuse removal, parking and any other benefits, privileges or
facilities.



 



 



SEC. 45.72.  PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.



 



   A mobilehome park operator shall not do or attempt to do any of the
following:



 



   A.   Refuse to rent or lease a mobilehome site, refuse to negotiate
for the rental or lease of a mobilehome site, evict from a mobilehome site or
otherwise deny to or withhold a mobilehome site from any mobilehome owner on
the basis of the age of the mobilehome.



 



   B.   Rent or lease a mobilehome site on less favorable terms,
conditions or privileges, or discriminate in the provision of services to any
mobilehome owner on the basis of the age of the mobilehome.



 



   C.   Represent to any mobilehome owner that a mobilehome site is not
available for inspection, rental or lease when such mobilehome site is, in
fact, available on the basis of the age of the mobilehome.



 



   D.   Make, print, publish, or cause to be made, printed, or
published any notice, statement, sign advertisement, application, or contract
with regard to a mobilehome site that indicates any preference, limitation,
or discrimination with respect to the age of the mobilehome.



 



   EXCEPTIONS:



 



   (1)   Notwithstanding the above prohibitions, in the event of the
sale of a mobilehome in the park to a third party, and in order to upgrade
the quality of the park, the mobilehome park operator may require the removal
of the mobilehome from the park where:



 



   (a)   The mobilehome is less than 10 feet wide.



 



   (b)   The mobilehome is more than 20 years old, or more than 25
years old if manufactured after September 15, 1971, and is 20 feet wide or
more and the mobilehome does not comply with the health and safety standards
provided in Sections 18550, 18552, and 18605 of the Health and Safety Code,
and the regulations established thereunder.



 



   (c)   The mobilehome is more than 17 years old, or more than 25
years old if manufactured after September 15,1971, and is less than 20 feet
wide and the mobilehome does not comply with the construction and safety
standards under Sections 18550, 18552 and 18605 of the Health and Safety
Code, and the regulations established thereunder.



 



   (d)   The mobilehome is in a significantly rundown condition or in
disrepair, as determined by the general condition of the mobilehome and its
acceptability to the health and safety of the occupants and to the public,
exclusive of its age. The mobilehome park operator shall use reasonable
discretion in determining the general condition of the mobilehome and its
accessory structures. The mobilehome park operator shall bear the burden of
demonstrating that the mobilehome is in a significantly rundown condition or
in disrepair.



 



   (2)   The mobilehome park operator may refuse to rent or lease a
mobilehome site for a mobilehome entering the park after the effective date
of this section if:



 



   (a)   The mobilehome is less than 10 feet wide.



 



   (b)   The mobilehome is more than 20 years old, or more than 25
years old if manufactured after September 15, 1971 and is 20 feet wide or
more and the mobilehome does not comply with the health and safety standards
provided in Sections 18550,18552 and 18605 of the Health and Safety Code, and
the regulations established thereunder.



 



   (c)   The mobilehome is more than 17 years old, or more than 25
years old if manufactured after September 15,1971, and is less than 20 feet
wide and the mobilehome does not comply with the construction and safety
standards under Sections 18550,18552, and 18605 of the Health and Safety
Code, and the regulations established thereunder.



 



   (d)   The mobilehome is in a significantly rundown condition or is
in disrepair, as determined by the general condition of the mobilehome and
its acceptability to the health and safety of the occupants and to the
public, exclusive of its age. The mobilehome park operator shall use
reasonable discretion in determining the general condition of the mobilehome
and its accessory structures. The mobilehome park operator shall bear the
burden of demonstrating that the mobilehome is in a significantly rundown
condition or in disrepair.



 



 



SEC. 45.73.  REMEDIES.



 



   A.   Any mobilehome park operator who violates the provisions of
this article shall be subject to injunctive relief and shall be liable for
actual damages, if any, with regard to each and every such violation and such
additional amount as may be determined by a jury, or the court sitting
without a jury, up to three times the amount of actual damages or three times
an amount equal to one month’s rent of the rental unit involved, whichever
is greater, as well as reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs of litigation.



 



   B.   Notwithstanding Section 11.00(m) of this Code, violations of
any of the provisions of this article shall not constitute a misdemeanor or
infraction.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 5.8
PROHIBITION AGAINST DISCRIMINATION BASED ON A PERSON SUFFERING FROM THE
MEDICAL CONDITION AIDS, OR ANY MEDICAL SIGNS OR SYMPTOMS RELATED THERETO, OR
ANY PERCEPTION THAT A PERSON IS SUFFERING FROM THE MEDICAL CONDITION AIDS
WHETHER REAL OR IMAGINARY



 




(Art. 5.8. Chapter IV Added By Ord. No. 160,289, Eff. 8/19/85.)




 



 



Section



45.80   Statement of Policy.



45.81   Definitions.



45.82   Employment.



45.83   Rental Housing.



45.84   Business Establishments.



45.85   City Facilities and Services.



45.86   Educational Institutions.



45.87   Advertising.



45.88   Subterfuge.



45.89   Liability.



45.90   Enforcement.



45.91   Limitation on Action.



45.92   Severability.



45.93   Exceptions.



 



 



SEC. 45.80.  STATEMENT OF POLICY.



 



   After public hearings and receipt of testimony, the City Council finds
and declares:



 



   That the medical condition described as Acquired Immune Deficiency
Syndrome and commonly known as AIDS is a deadly disease which has the
potential to affect every segment of our City’s population.



 



   That AIDS was first recognized in 1981 by the Federal Center for
Disease Control based on the study of a pattern of unusual illnesses among
young, single men reported by the medical center associated with UCLA within
our City.



 



   That AIDS in the opinion of the scientific and medical community is
caused by a virus, known as HTLV-III or LAV, which attacks and cripples the
body’s immune system, thereby leaving the body vulnerable to opportunistic
infections.



 



   That a person afflicted with AIDS suffers a variety of virus and/or
fungus-caused illnesses which debilitate the body resulting in a high
mortality rate within three years after diagnosis.



 



   That the spread of the virus has occurred through the exchange of
bodily fluids, i.e. blood, blood by-products, or semen, between individuals.



 



   That no evidence exists to indicate the spread of the virus by casual
contact.



 



   That medical studies of family groups in which one or more persons have
been diagnosed with AIDS show no spread of the virus other than through
sexual intimacy or through the exchange of blood (mother to fetus).



 



   That the virus can thrive only in favorable conditions, and cannot
exist for a significant period of time outside the body, and can be protected
against by the application of regular practices of hygiene, such as the use
of chlorine in swimming pools or spas and the use of household bleach when
washing garments or cleaning contaminated surfaces.



 



   That the public health danger represented by the virus and its
subsequent manifestation as AIDS is caused by the lengthy incubation period
during which period an apparently healthy individual may spread the disease
to other persons through the exchange of blood, blood by-products, or semen.



 



   That AIDS while recognized as a national public health emergency has
been concentrated in urban areas with our city representing the third highest
number of cases reported within a local public health jurisdiction.



 



   That AIDS in the opinion of the scientific and medical community will
continue to increase at a high rate within our city for the foreseeable
future.



 



   That AIDS by its nature has created a discrete and insular minority of
our citizens who are afflicted with a seriously disabling condition whose
ultimate outcome is fatal.



 



   That the persons afflicted with AIDS represent a segment of our
population particularly victimized due to the nature of the disease and to
the present climate of misinformation, ignorance and fear in the general
population.



 



   That discrimination against victims of AIDS and AIDS related conditions
exists in the City of Los Angeles.



 



   That persons with AIDS or AIDS related conditions are faced with
discrimination in employment, housing, medical and dental services, business
establishments, city facilities, city services and other public
accommodations;



 



   That such discrimination cuts across all racial, ethnic and economic
lines;



 



   That such discrimination poses a substantial threat to the health,
safety and welfare of the community;



 



   That the existing state and federal restraints on such arbitrary
discrimination are inadequate to meet the particular problems of this City.



 



 



SEC. 45.81.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   The following words and phrases, whenever used in this article, shall
be construed as defined in this section:



 



   A.   AIDS:  shall mean the disease complex which occurs when an
important part of the human immune system is destroyed by the action of a
virus known as HTLV-III or LAV. Signs and symptoms of this disease complex
are manifested in the afflicted person by a series of virus or fungus-caused
illnesses of a chronic nature.



 



   B.   Condition related thereto:  Shall mean any perception that a
person is suffering from the medical condition AIDS whether real or imaginary.



 



   C.   Business Establishment:  shall mean any entity, however
organized, which furnishes goods or services to the general public. An
otherwise qualifying establishment which has membership requirements is
considered to furnish services to the general public if its membership
requirements:  (a) consist only of payment of fees;  (b) consist of
requirements under which a substantial portion of the residents of this City
could qualify.



 



   D.   Employer:  Shall mean every person, including any public
service corporation and the legal representative of any deceased employer
which has any natural person in service.



 



   E.   Housing Services:  Shall mean services connected with the use
or occupancy of a rental unit including but not limited to, utilities
(including light, heat, water and telephone), ordinary repairs or
replacement, and maintenance, including painting. This term shall also
include the provision of elevator service, laundry facilities and privileges,
common recreational facilities, janitor service, resident manager, refuse
removal, furnishings, food service, parking and any other benefits,
privileges or facilities.



 



   F.   Rent:  Shall mean the consideration, including any bonus,
benefits or gratuity, demanded or received by a landlord for or in connection
with the use or occupancy of a rental unit, including but not limited to
monies demanded or paid for the following: meals where required by the
landlord as a condition of the tenancy; parking; furnishings; other housing
services of any kind; subletting; or security deposits.



 



   G.   Rental Units:  Shall mean all dwelling units, efficiency
dwelling units, guest rooms, and suites in the City of Los Angeles, as
defined in Section 12.03 of this Code, rented or offered for rent for living
or dwelling purposes, the land and buildings appurtenant thereto, and all
housing services, privileges, furnishings and facilities supplied in
connection with the use or occupancy thereof, including garage and parking
facilities.



 



   This term shall not include:



 



   1.   Housing accommodations which a government unit, agency or
authority owns, operates, or manages, and which are specifically exempted
from municipal regulation by state or federal law or administrative
regulation.



 



   H.   Person:  Shall mean any natural person, firm, corporation,
partnership or other organization, association or group of persons however
organized.



 



 



SEC. 45.82.  EMPLOYMENT.



 



   A.   Unlawful Employment Practices.  It shall be an unlawful
employment practice for any employer, employment agency or labor organization
or any agent or employee thereof to do or attempt to do any of the following:



 



   1.   Fail or refuse to hire, or to discharge any person, or
otherwise discriminate against any person with respect to compensation,
terms, conditions or privileges of employment on the basis (in whole or in
part) of the fact that such person has the medical condition AIDS or any
condition related thereto.



 



   2.   Limit, segregate or classify employees or applicants for
employment in any manner which would deprive or tend to deprive any person of
employment opportunities, or adversely affect his or her employment status on
the basis (in whole or in part) of the fact that such person has the medical
condition AIDS or any condition related thereto.



 



   3.   Fail or refuse to refer for employment any person, or otherwise
to discriminate against any person on the basis (in whole or in part) of the
fact that such person has the medical condition AIDS or any condition related
thereto.



 



   4.   Fail or refuse to include in its membership or to otherwise
discriminate against any person; or to limit, segregate or classify its
membership; or to classify or fail or refuse to refer for employment any
person in any way which would deprive or tend to deprive such person of
employment opportunities, or otherwise adversely affect her or his status as
an employee or as an applicant for employment on the basis (in whole or in
part) of the fact that such person has the medical condition AIDS or any
condition related thereto.



 



   5.   Discriminate against any person in admission to, or employment
in, any program established to provide apprenticeship or other training or
retraining, including any on-the-job training program on the basis (in whole
or in part) of the fact that such person has the medical condition AIDS or
any condition related thereto.



 



   B.   Bonafide Occupational Qualification not Prohibited; Burden of
Proof.



 



   1.   Bona Fide Occupational Qualifications.  Nothing contained in
this Section shall be deemed to prohibit selection, rejection or dismissal
based upon a bona fide occupational qualification.



 



   2.   Burden of Proof.  Any action brought under this article, if a
party asserts that an otherwise unlawful discriminatory practice is justified
as a bona fide occupational qualification, that party shall have the burden
of proving:  (1)  that the discrimination is in fact a necessary result of
a bona fide occupational qualification; and  (2)  that there exists no less
discriminatory means of satisfying the occupational qualification.



 



   C.   Exceptions.



 



   1.   It shall not be an unlawful discriminatory practice for an
employer to observe the conditions of a bona fide employee benefit system,
provided such systems or plans are not a subterfuge to evade the purposes of
this article; provided further that no such system shall provide an excuse
for failure to hire any person.



 



 



SEC. 45.83.  RENTAL HOUSING.



 



   A.   Unlawful Rental Housing Practices.  It shall be unlawful for
any person having a housing accommodation for rent or lease, or any
authorized agent or employee of such person to or attempt to do any of the
following:



 



   1.   Refuse to rent or lease a rental unit, refuse to negotiate for
the rental or lease of a rental unit, evict from a rental unit, or otherwise
deny to or withhold a rental unit from any person on the basis (in whole or
in part) of the fact that such person has the medical condition AIDS or any
condition related thereto.



 



   2.   Rent or lease a rental unit on less favorable terms, conditions
or privileges, or discriminate in the provision of housing services to any
person on the basis (in whole or in part) of the fact that such person has
the medical condition AIDS or any medical condition related thereto.



 



   3.   Represent to any person that a rental unit is not available for
inspection, rental or lease when such rental unit is, in fact, available on
the basis (in whole or in part) of the fact that such person has the medical
condition AIDS or any condition related thereto.



 



   4.   Make, print, publish, or cause to be made, printed, or
published any notice, statement, sign, advertisement, application, or
contract with regard to a rental unit that indicates any preference,
limitation, or discrimination with respect to the fact that a person has the
medical condition AIDS or any condition related thereto.



 



   B.   Exceptions.



 



   1.   Owner-occupied.  Nothing in this article shall be construed to
apply to the rental or leasing of any housing unit in which the owner or
lessor or any member of his or her family occupies the same living unit in
common with the prospective tenant.



 



   2.   Effect on Other Laws.  Nothing in this article shall be deemed
to permit any rental or occupancy of any dwelling unit or commercial space
otherwise prohibited by law.



 



   3.   Nothing in this article shall override any just cause for
eviction set forth in Rent Stabilization Ordinance. AIDS shall not constitute
an reasonable health hazard under 151.09 of the Rent Stabilization Ordinance.



 



 



SEC. 45.84.  BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS.



 



   A.   Unlawful Business Practice.



 



   1.   Business Practices Generally.  It shall be an unlawful
business practice for any person to deny any individual the full and equal
enjoyment of the goods, services, facilities, privileges, advantages and
accommodations of any business establishment including, but not limited to,
medical, dental, health care and convalescent services of any kind whatsoever
on the basis (in whole or in part) of the fact that such person has the
medical condition AIDS or any condition related thereto.



 



   B.   Exceptions.  Nothing in this article shall apply to any blood
bank, blood donation facility, sperm bank, sperm donation facility, organ
donation facility, surrogate mother or surrogate mother facility, or to any
like service facility or establishment engaged in the exchange of products
containing elements of blood or sperm.



 



 



SEC. 45.85.  CITY FACILITIES AND SERVICES.



 



   A.   Unlawful Service and Facility Practices.  It shall be an
unlawful practice for any person to deny any person the full and equal
enjoyment of, or to impose different terms and conditions on the availability
of any of the following:



 



   1.   Use of any City facility or City service on the basis (in whole
or in part) of the fact that such person has the medical condition AIDS or
any condition related thereto.



 



   2.   Any service, program or facility wholly or partially funded or
otherwise supported by the City of Los Angeles, on the basis (in whole or in
part) of the fact that such person has the medical condition AIDS or any
condition related thereto.



 



   This subsection shall not apply to any facility, service or program
which does not receive any assistance from the City of Los Angeles which is
not provided to the public generally.



 



 



SEC. 45.86.  EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS.



 



   A.   Unlawful Educational Practices.  It shall be an unlawful
educational practice for any person to do any of the following:



 



   1.   To deny admission, or to impose different terms or conditions
on admission, on the basis (in whole or in part) of the fact that such person
has the medical condition AIDS or any condition related thereto.



 



   2.   To deny any individual the full and equal enjoyment of, or to
impose different terms or conditions upon the availability of, any facility
owned or operated by or any service or program offered by an educational
institution on the basis (in whole or in part) of the fact that such person
has the medical condition AIDS or any condition related thereto.



 



   B.   Exception.



 



   It shall not be an unlawful discriminatory practice for a religious or
denominational institution to limit admission, or give other preference to
applicants of the same religion.



 



 



SEC. 45.87.  ADVERTISING.



 



   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, print, publish, advertise
or disseminate in any way any notice, statement or advertisement with respect
to any of the acts mentioned in this article, which indicates an intent to
engage in any unlawful practice as set forth in this article.



 



 



SEC. 45.88.  SUBTERFUGE.



 



   It shall be an unlawful discriminatory practice to do any of the acts
mentioned in this article for any reason which would not have been asserted,
wholly or partially, but for the fact that the person against whom such
assertions are made has the medical condition AIDS or any condition related
thereto.



 



 



SEC. 45.89.  LIABILITY.



 



   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this article or who
aids in the violation of any provisions of this article shall be liable for,
and the court shall award to the individual whose rights were violated,
actual damages, costs, and attorneys fees. In addition, the court may award
punitive damages in a proper case.



 



 



SEC. 45.90.  ENFORCEMENT.



 



   A.   Civil Action.  Any aggrieved person may enforce the provisions
of this article by means of a Civil Action.



 



   B.   Injunction.



 



   1.   Any person who commits, or proposes to commit, an act in
violation of this article may be enjoined therefrom by a court of competent
jurisdiction.



 



   2.   Action for Injunction under this subsection may be brought by
any aggrieved person, by the City Attorney, or by any person or entity which
will fairly and adequately represent the interests of the protected class.



 



   C.   Non-Exclusive.  Nothing in this article shall preclude any
aggrieved person from seeking any other remedy provided by law.



 



   D.   Exception.  Notwithstanding any provision of this code to the
contrary, no criminal penalties shall attach for any violation of the
provision of this article.



 



 



SEC. 45.91.  LIMITATION ON ACTION.



 



   Actions under this article must be filed within one year of the alleged
discriminatory acts.



 



 



SEC. 45.92.  SEVERABILITY.



 



   If any part or provision of this article or the application thereof to
any person or circumstance, is held invalid, the remainder of the article,
including the application of such part or provision to other persons or
circumstances, shall not be affected thereby and shall continue in full force
and effect. To this end, provisions of this article are severable.



 



 



SEC. 45.93.  EXCEPTIONS.



 



   A.   No part of this article shall apply to any bona fide religious
organization.



 



   B.   No part of this Article shall apply where a course of conduct
is pursued which is necessary to protect the health or safety of the general
public.



 



   1.   Burden of Proof.  In any action brought under this Article, if
a party asserts that an otherwise unlawful discriminatory practice is
justified as necessary to protect the health or safety of the general public,
that party shall have the burden of proving;  (1)  that the discrimination
is in fact a necessary result of a necessary course of conduct pursued to
protect the health or safety of the general public; and  (2)  that there
exists no less discriminatory means of satisfying the necessary protection of
the health or safety of the general public.



 



   2.   Compliance with Department of Health and Human Services
Guideline.  Within the meaning of this section, a practice is deemed
necessary to protect the health or safety of the general public if that
practice is consistent with the United States Department of Health and Human
Services Guidelines entitled “Recommendations for Preventing Transmission
of Infection with Human T-Lymphotropic Virus Type III/Lymphadenopathy -
Associated Virus in the Workplace,” published in November 1985. (Added by
Ord. No. 161,340, Eff. 7/17/86.)



 



 



 



ARTICLE 5.9
PROHIBITION AGAINST DISCRIMINATION BY CLUBS OR ORGANIZATIONS WHICH ARE NOT
DISTINCTLY PRIVATE



 




(Art. 5.9. Added By Ord. No. 162,426, Eff. 6/29/87.)




 



 



Section



45.95.00   Findings and Purpose.



45.95.01   Definitions.



45.95.02   Prohibition Against Discrimination.



45.95.03   Enforcement and Penalties.



45.95.04   Non-criminal Penalties.



 



 



SEC. 45.95.00.  FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.



 



   After public hearings receipt of testimony, the City Council finds and
declares:



 



   That a significant barrier to the advancement of women and minorities
in the business and professional life of the City exists by virtue of the
discriminatory practices of certain clubs or organizations which are not
distinctly private and where business is frequently conducted.



 



   That while such clubs or organizations may avowedly be formed for
social or civic purposes, the extent to which many of the activities therein
have had a prejudicial impact on the business, professional and,employment
opportunities of women and minorities can not be ignored or minimized.



 



   That business activity most frequently occurs in clubs or organizations
having more than four hundred members which provide regular meal services
which facilitates conducting such business.



 



   That the dues and expenses of members at such clubs or organizations
are often paid by their employers because the employee’s activities at said
clubs or organizations serve to develop and enhance the employer’s business.



 



   That such clubs or organizations also rent their facilities for use as
conference rooms for business meetings attended by non-members.



 



   That the City of Los Angeles has a compelling interest in eradicating
discrimination based on sex, race, color, religion, ancestry, national
origin, sexual orientation, or disability in order to assure all of its
citizens a fair and equal opportunity to participate in the business and
professional life of the City. Conduct and practices which exclude persons
from entry or consideration for membership in or the full advantages and
privileges of such membership on these bases are discriminatory and
unacceptable, are injurious to the body politic and to the business community
and the City of Los Angeles. Accordingly, the City’s interest in
eliminating such practices in clubs or organizations covered by this article
outweighs the interest of their members in private association.



 



 



SEC. 45.95.01.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   A.   For purposes of this article, a club or organization (hereafter
“club”) which is not distinctly private is any organization, institution,
club or place of accommodation which satisfies the following requirements:



 



   1.   Has membership of whatever kind totalling 400 or more; and



 



   2.   Provides regular meal service by providing either directly or
indirectly under a contract with another person, any meals on three or more
days per week during two or more weeks per month during six or more months
per year: and



 



   3.   Regularly accepts payments:



 



   (a)   from non-members for expenses incurred at the club by members
or non-members in the furtherance of trade or business; or



 



   (b)   on behalf of non-members for expenses incurred at the club by
non-members in the furtherance of trade or business.



 



   B.   “Regularly accepts payment” as used in this article shall
mean a club accepting as many payments during the course of a year as the
number of weeks any part of which the club is available for use by members or
non-members per year; the payments may be for dues, fees, use of space,
facilities, services, meals or beverages.



 



   C.   “Furtherance of trade or business” as used in this article
shall mean payment made by or on behalf of a trade or business organization,
payment made by an individual from an account which the individual uses
primarily for trade or business purposes, payment made by an individual who
is reimbursed for the payment by the individual’s employer or by a trade or
business organization, or other payment made in connection with an
individual’s trade or business, including entertaining clients or business
associates, holding meetings or other business-related events.



 



 



SEC. 45.95.02.  PROHIBITION AGAINST DISCRIMINATION.



 



   A.   It shall be unlawful for a club which is not distinctly private
to deny to any person entry to facilities at, membership in, or the full
enjoyment of said club or organization on the basis of sex, race, color,
religion, ancestry, national origin, sexual orientation, or disability.



 



   B.   The provisions of this article shall not apply to an
institution organized and operated exclusively for religious purposes as
defined in 26 U.S.C. Section 501(c)(3).



 



 



SEC. 45.95.03.  ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES.



 



   A.   Civil Action.  Any person may enforce the provisions of this
article by means of a civil action. The City of Los Angeles may also enforce
the provisions of this Article by means of a civil action.



 



   B.   Injunctions.



 



   1.   Any person who commits an act, or proposes to commit an act, or
engages in any pattern and practice of discrimination in violation of Section
45.95.02 may be enjoined therefrom by any court of competent jurisdiction.



 



   2.   Action for injunction under this subsection may be brought by
any aggrieved person, by the City Attorney, or by any person or entity who
will fairly and adequately represent the interest of the protected class.



 



   C.   Penalties.  Any person who violates or aids or incites another
person to violate, the provisions of this article is liable for each and
every such offense for the actual damages, and such amount as may be
determined by a jury, or a court sitting without a jury, up to a maximum of
three times the amount of actual damage but in no case less than Two Hundred
Fifty Dollars ($250), and such attorney’s fees and court costs as may be
determined by the court in addition thereto, suffered by any aggrieved party.
In addition, the court may award punitive damages in a proper case.



 



   D.   Non-exclusive Remedies and Penalties.  Nothing in this article
shall preclude any person from seeking any other remedies, penalties or
procedures provided by law.



 



 



SEC. 45.95.04.  NON-CRIMINAL PENALTIES.



 



   Notwithstanding any provision of this code to the contrary, no criminal
penalties shall attach for any violation of the provisions of this article.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 5.10
PROHIBITION AGAINST HARASSMENT OF BICYCLISTS



 




(Art. 5.10. Added By Ord. No. 181,817, Eff. 9/5/11.)




 



 



Section



45.96.00   Findings and Purpose.



45.96.01   Definitions.



45.96.02   Prohibited Activities.



45.96.03   Remedies.



 



 



SEC. 45.96.00.  FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.



 



   After public hearings and receipt of testimony, the City Council finds
and declares:



 



   That the City of Los Angeles wants to encourage people to ride bicycles
rather than drive motor vehicles in order to lessen traffic congestion and
improve air quality;



 



   That harassment of bicyclists on the basis of their status as
bicyclists exists in the City of Los Angeles;



 



   That existing criminal and civil laws do not effectively prevent the
unlawful harassment of bicyclists because of their status as bicyclists;



 



   That riding a bicycle on City streets poses hazards to bicyclists, and
that these hazards are amplified by the actions of persons who deliberately
harass and endanger bicyclists because of their status as bicyclists; and



 



   That because people have a right to ride a bicycle in the City of Los
Angeles and should be able to do so safely on City streets, it is against the
public policy of the City of Los Angeles to harass a bicyclist upon the basis
of the person's status as a bicyclist.



 



 



SEC. 45.96.01.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   The following words and phrases, whenever used in this Article, shall
be construed as defined in this Section.  Words and phrases not defined
herein shall be construed as defined in Section 12.03 of this Code, if
defined therein.



 



   A.   Bicycle.  A device upon which any person may ride, propelled
exclusively by human power through a belt, chain or gears, and having one or
more wheels.



 



   B.   Bicyclist.  A person riding a bicycle.



 



 



SEC. 45.96.02.  PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.



 



   A person shall not do or attempt to do any of the following:



 



   A.   Physically assault or attempt to physically assault a Bicyclist
because of, in whole or in part, the Bicyclist's status as a Bicyclist.



 



   B.   Threaten to physically injure a Bicyclist because of, in whole
or in part, the Bicyclist's status as a Bicyclist.



 



   C.   Intentionally injure, attempt to injure, or threaten to
physically injure, either by words, vehicle, or other object, a Bicyclist
because of, in whole or in part, the Bicyclist's status as a Bicyclist.



 



   D.   Intentionally distract or attempt to distract a Bicyclist
because of, in whole or in part, the Bicyclist's status as a Bicyclist.



 



   E.   Intentionally force or attempt to force a Bicyclist off a
street for purposes unrelated to public safety.



 



 



SEC. 45.96.03.  REMEDIES.



 



   A.   Any aggrieved person may enforce the provisions of this Article
by means of a civil lawsuit.



 



   B.   Any person who violates the provisions of this Article shall be
liable for treble the actual damages with regard to each and every such
violation, or $1,000, whichever is greater, and shall be liable for
reasonable attorneys' fees and costs of litigation.  In addition, a jury or
a court may award punitive damages where warranted.



 



   C.   Notwithstanding Section 11.00(m) of this Code, violations of
any of the provisions of this Article shall not constitute a misdemeanor or
infraction, except where such actions, independently of this Article,
constitute a misdemeanor or infraction.



 



   D.   The remedies provided by the provisions of this Article are in
addition to all other remedies provided by law, and nothing in this Article
shall preclude any aggrieved person from pursuing any other remedy provided
by law.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 6
PRESERVATION OF PROTECTED TREES



 




(Title Amended by Ord. No. 177,404, Eff. 4/23/06.)




 



 



Section



46.00   Protected Tree Regulations.



46.01   Definition.



46.02   Requirements for Public Works Permits to Relocate or Remove
Protected Trees.



46.03   Permit Conditions.



46.04   Fees.



46.05   Appeal.



46.06   Withholding or Revocation of Building Permits for Illegal Removal
or Relocation of Protected Trees.



 



 



SEC. 46.00.  PROTECTED TREE REGULATIONS.




(Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 177,404, Eff. 4/23/06.)




 



   No protected tree may be relocated or removed except as provided in
Article 7 of Chapter 1 or this article.  The term "removed" or "removal"
shall include any act that will cause a protected tree to die, including but
not limited to acts that inflict damage upon the root system or other part of
the tree by fire, application of toxic substances, operation of equipment or
machinery, or by changing the natural grade of land by excavation or filling
the drip line area around the trunk.



 



 



SEC. 46.01.  DEFINITION.




(Amended by Ord. No. 177,404, Eff. 4/23/06.)




 



   "PROTECTED TREE" means any of the following Southern California native
tree species which measures four inches or more in cumulative diameter, four
and one half feet above the ground level at the base of the tree:



 



   (a)   Oak tree including Valley Oak (Quercus lobata) and California
Live Oak (Quercus agrifolia), or any other tree of the oak genus indigenous
to California but excluding the Scrub Oak (Quercus dumosa).



 



   (b)   Southern California Black Walnut (Juglans californica var.
californica).



 



   (c)   Western Sycamore (Platanus racemosa).



 



   (d)   California Bay (Umbellularia californica).



 



   This definition shall not include any tree grown or held for sale by a
licensed nursery, or trees planted or grown as a part of a tree planting
program.



 



 



SEC. 46.02.  REQUIREMENTS FOR PUBLIC WORKS PERMITS TO RELOCATE OR REMOVE
PROTECTED TREES.




(Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 177,404, Eff. 4/23/06.)




 



   No person shall relocate or remove any protected tree, as that term is
defined in Section 46.01, where the protected tree is not regulated pursuant
to Article 7 of Chapter I of this Code, without first having applied for and
obtained a permit from the Board of Public Works or its designated officer or
employee, except as otherwise provided in this section.



 



   An application for a permit shall indicate, in a manner acceptable to
the Board of Public Works, by number on a plot plan, the location of each
protected tree, and shall identify each protected tree proposed to be
retained, relocated or removed.  If any grading is proposed that may affect
the protected tree, a copy of the grading permit plan in compliance with
Division 70 of Article 1 of Chapter IX of this Code shall be submitted with
the application.



 



   (a)   Exemptions.  The Board of Public Works shall exempt from and
not require issuance of a permit for the relocation or removal of a protected
tree where the Board is satisfied that:



 



   1.   The proposed relocation or removal of the protected tree has
been approved by the Advisory Agency pursuant to Article 7 of Chapter I of
this Code; or



 



   2.   The land upon which the protected tree is located has been the
subject of a determination by the City Planning Commission, the City Council,
a Zoning Administrator or an Area Planning Commission, the appeal period
established by this Code with respect to the determination has expired, the
determination is still in effect, and pursuant to the determination the
protected tree's removal would be permissible; or



 



   3.   A building permit has been issued for any property and is still
in effect with respect to the property under consideration and its
implementation would necessitate the removal or relocation.



 



   (b)   Board Authority.  The Board of Public Works may grant a
permit for the relocation or removal of a protected tree, unless otherwise
provided in this section or unless the tree is officially designated as an
Historical Monument or as part of an Historic Preservation Overlay Zone, if
the Board determines that the removal of the protected tree will not result
in an undesirable, irreversible soil erosion through diversion or increased
flow of surface waters, which cannot be mitigated to the satisfaction of the
City; and



 



   1.   It is necessary to remove the protected tree because its
continued existence at the location prevents the reasonable development of
the subject property; or



 



   2.   The protected tree shows a substantial decline from a condition
of normal health and vigor, and restoration, through appropriate and
economically reasonable preservation procedures and practices, is not
advisable; or



 



   3.   Because of an existing and irreversible adverse condition of
the protected tree, the tree is in danger of falling, notwithstanding the
tree having been designated an Historical Monument or as part of an Historic
Preservation Overlay Zone.



 



   (c)   Additional Authority.  The Board of Public Works or its
authorized officer or employee may:



 



   1.   Require as a condition of a grant of permit for the relocation
or removal of a protected tree, that the permittee replace the tree within
the same property boundaries by at least two trees of a protected variety
included within the definition set forth in Section 46.01 of this Code, in a
manner acceptable to the Board.  In size, each replacement tree shall be at
least a 15-gallon, or larger, specimen, measuring one inch or more in
diameter one foot above the base, and be not less than seven feet in height
measured from the base.  The size and number of replacement trees shall
approximate the value of the tree to be replaced.



 



   2.   Permit protected trees of a lesser size or trees of a different
species to be planted as replacement trees, if replacement trees of the size
and species otherwise required pursuant to this Code are not available.  In
that event, a greater number of replacement trees may be required.



 



   3.   Permit a protected tree to be moved to another location on the
property, provided that the environmental conditions of the new location are
favorable to the survival of the tree and there is a reasonable probability
that the tree will survive.



 



 



SEC. 46.03.  PERMIT CONDITIONS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 153,478, Eff. 4/12/80.)



 



   (a)   A permit issued pursuant to this article shall (1) specify and
approve the location or locations to which said tree may be relocated, (2)
designate the species, number, and size of any replacement tree or trees, and
(3) set forth any other conditions or requirements deemed necessary by the
Board of Public Works, or its authorized officer or employee, to implement
the provisions of this article.



 



   (b)   It shall be a misdemeanor for any person to fail or refuse to
comply with, or to wilfully violate, any condition or requirement imposed in
a permit issued pursuant to this article.



 



 



SEC. 46.04.  FEES.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 177,404, Eff. 4/23/06.)



 



   A fee shall be charged for issuance of any permit pursuant to this
article, which permits the removal of one or more protected trees.  The fee
shall be determined and adopted in the same manner as provided in Section
12.37 I.1. of the Los Angeles Municipal Code for establishing fees.



 



 



SEC. 46.05.  APPEAL.



   (Added By Ord. No. 153,478, Eff. 4/12/80.)



 



   In the event an application for a permit under this article is denied,
the applicant shall be notified of such denial in writing, said applicant’s
right to file an appeal with the Board of Public Works, the time limits, and
other requirements for the filing of said appeal.



 



   No appeal shall be considered by the Board unless said appeal has been
filed with the Board no greater than 10 days after the date said notice of
denial is mailed.



 



   The Board shall conduct a hearing within 30 days after receiving an
appeal, and shall render a written decision approving, conditionally
approving, or disapproving the issuance of the permit applied for.



 



 



SEC. 46.06.  WITHHOLDING OR REVOCATION OF BUILDING PERMITS FOR ILLEGAL
REMOVAL OR RELOCATION OF PROTECTED TREES.



   (Added by Ord. No. 177,404, Eff. 4/23/06.)



 



   (a)   The Bureau of Street Services, after notice and hearing
pursuant to Subsections (b) and (c) of this section, shall have the authority
to request the Superintendent of Building to withhold issuance of building
permits, except for permits that are necessary to comply with a Department of
Building and Safety order, for a period of time up to a maximum of ten years
as requested by the Bureau and to revoke any building permit issued for which
construction has not commenced with respect to any property on which any
protected tree has been removed or relocated in violation of Section 46.00 of
this Code.



 



   The request shall be made in writing by the Director of the Bureau of
Street Services or his/her designee and shall specifically state the start
date and end date of the period of time the Bureau, or the Board of Public
Works on appeal, have deemed necessary pursuant to Subsection (c) of this
section.  The period shall commence on the date the Bureau first becomes
aware of the removal of the tree.  Provided, however, the authority of the
Bureau to act shall not apply to a purchaser, or to his or her agent, who in
good faith and for valuable consideration has acquired title to the property
subsequent to the illegal removal or relocation of any protected trees and
prior to the recordation of the notice of intent as provided for in
Subsection (b) of this section.



 



   (b)   The Bureau shall notify the applicant or permittee in writing
of its intent to act pursuant to this section.  The notice shall state that
the applicant or permittee may submit any evidence it deems relevant on this
matter, the hearing to be held on a date specified in the notice.  A copy of
the notice shall also be mailed to the owner of the property, if different
from the applicant or permittee, as shown on the last equalized assessment
roll, and to any person holding a deed of trust, mortgage or other security
interest in the property as revealed by a title search with respect to the
property.  A copy of the notice shall also be recorded by the Bureau with
the County Recorder.



 



   (c)   The Bureau hearing shall be set on a date no earlier than 20
days after the date of the mailing of the notice provided for in Subsection
(b) above.  At the hearing, if the facts indicate, the Bureau shall make a
finding that the applicant or permittee is not a purchaser in good faith and
for valuable consideration who acquired title to the property subsequent to
the illegal removal or relocation of the protected tree and prior to the
recordation of the notice of intent as provided for in Subsection (b)
above.  In the event the Bureau finds that a protected tree was removed or
relocated in violation of Section 46.00 of this Code, it shall specify to the
Superintendent of Building the length of time the issuance of building
permits shall be withheld and whether building permits for which construction
has not commenced shall be revoked.  In making its determination, the Bureau
shall consider the following factors:  the number of trees removed or
relocated, the size and age of the trees removed or relocated, the knowledge
and intent of the owners of the property with respect to the removal or
relocation and prior violations of law with respect to removal or relocation
of protected trees.  The applicant or permittee shall be notified in writing
of the Bureau's determination within 30 days of the hearing.



 



   (d)   The applicant or permittee may appeal to the Board of Public
Works any determination by the Bureau to request the Superintendent of
Building to revoke or withhold issuance of building permits, including the
length of time imposed.  The appeal must be filed with the Board of Public
Works within 30 days of the date of mailing of the notice of determination as
provided for in Subsection (c) above.  Further, any action by the Department
of Building and Safety resulting from any of the provisions of this section,
including building permit revocation, shall not be appealable to the Board of
Building and Safety Commissioners.



 



   (e)   Any final determination of the Bureau or the Board of Public
Works on appeal, to request the Superintendent of Building to withhold
issuance of building permits or to revoke a building permit, shall be
forwarded to the Superintendent within ten days of the Bureau or Board's
determination and shall also be set forth in an affidavit, which shall be
recorded by the Bureau with the County Recorder within ten days of the Bureau
or Board's determination.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 6.4
RESTRICTIONS ON BUTANE SALES



 




(Article and Section Added by Ord. No. 184,415, Eff. 8/12/16.)




 



Section



46.09   Restrictions on Butane Sales.



 



 



SEC. 46.09.  RESTRICTIONS ON BUTANE SALES.



 



   (a)   Definitions.



 



   1.   The term "vendor", as used in this section, shall mean any
person who is engaged in the wholesale or retail sale of "refined butane", as
that term is defined below.



 



   2.   The term "refined butane", as used in this section, shall mean
butane contained in a canister whose label includes any or all of the
following words:  "refined", "pure", "purified",  "premium" and "filtered",
when said words are used to describe the butane.



 



   3.   The term "sale" or "sell", as used in this section, shall mean
to transfer from a vendor to a customer, whether or not that transfer
involves an exchange of money.



 



   4.    The term "purchase", as used in this section, shall mean to
acquire from a vendor, whether or not that acquisition involves an exchange
of money.



 



   (b)   Vendor Requirements.  Every vendor shall do all of the
following:



 



   1.   Store refined butane, or cause it to be stored, in a manner
that makes it inaccessible, without employee assistance, to the public in the
regular course of business pending legal sale or disposition;



 



   2.   Limit the quantity of refined butane that may be purchased by a
person within a 30-day period to no more than 1,200 milliliters (ml) at
retail;



 



   3.   Sell refined butane only to persons 18 years of age or older;



 



   4.   Require any person who wishes to purchase refined butane to
present a valid driver's license or other form of government-issued
identification bearing the prospective purchaser's photograph, date of birth
and current residence address; and



 



   5.   Record the following information in connection with each sale
of butane and maintain on the premises of the vendor for a period of not less
than two (2) years from the date of sale:



 



   A.   The full name and residence address of the purchaser, as
obtained from identification described in (b)4.;



 



   B.   The date and time of the sale;



 



   C.   The brand and amount of refined butane sold;



 



   D.   The type of sale, i.e., retail or wholesale;



 



   E.    If a wholesale sale, the purchaser's seller's permit number as
reflected on the resale certificate, if a resale certificate is taken from
the purchaser pursuant to California Revenue and Taxation Code section 6091;
and



 



   F.   The full name of the person who processed the sale.



 



   (c)   Penalty.  Violation of any provision of Subdivision (b) above
shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable in accordance with Subdivision (m)
of Section 11.00 of this Code.



 



   (d)   Compliance.  Compliance with this section shall in no way
relieve a vendor of the responsibility to comply with any other applicable
city, state or federal law.



 



   (e)   Severability.  If any provision of this ordinance is found to
be unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent
jurisdiction, that invalidity shall not affect the remaining provisions of
this ordinance which can be implemented without invalid provisions, and to
this end, the provisions of this ordinance are declared to be severable.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 6.5
REGULATION OF OVER-THE-COUNTER DRUGS



 




(Article and Sections Added by Ord. No. 157,089, Eff. 10/18/82.)




 



 



Section



46.10   Definitions.



46.11   Over-the-counter Drugs Resembling Dangerous Drugs – Sale
Prohibited.



46.12   Misrepresentation as a Dangerous Drug.



46.13   Disclosure of Hazards.



46.14   Disclosure of Contents.



46.15   Exception.



 



 



SEC. 46.10.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   (a)   For the purposes of this article the term “over-the-counter
drug” shall mean any drug, as the term “drug” is defined in Section
4031 of the Business and Professions Code of the State of California, other
than a dangerous drug.



 



   (b)   For the purposes of this article, the term “dangerous
drug” shall mean any substance defined as such by the provisions of Section
4211 of the Business and Professions Code.



 



 



SEC. 46.11.  OVER-THE-COUNTER DRUGS RESEMBLING DANGEROUS DRUGS – SALE
PROHIBITED.



 



   No person shall offer for display or sale, or sell, any over-the-
counter drug or other substance which, because of its resemblance in
appearance, may be confused with one or more of the following dangerous
drugs, or an isomer, ester, ether, salt or salt of an isomer whenever the
existence of such an isomer, ester, ether or salt is possible within the
specific chemical designation of the drug, or a compound, mixture or
preparation containing such drug:



 



   1.   An amphetamine.



 



   2.   A barbiturate.



 



   3.   Benzodiazepine.



 



   4.   Chloral hydrate.



 



   5.   Codeine.



 



   6.   Glutethimide.



 



   7.   Methaqualone.



 



   8.   Pentozocine.



 



   9.   Phendimetrazine.



 



   10.   Phenmetrazine.



 



   11.   Phentermine.



 



 



SEC. 46.12.  MISREPRESENTATION AS A DANGEROUS DRUG.



 



   No person shall represent, either orally or in writing, or by nonverbal
communication, that an over-the-counter drug is a dangerous drug. This
section shall be inapplicable to any misrepresentation prohibited by either
Section 11355, 11382 or 26460 of the Health and Safety Code of the State of
California.



 



 



SEC. 46.13.  DISCLOSURE OF HAZARDS.



 



   No over-the-counter drug containing caffeine, ephedrine or
phenylpropanolamine shall be displayed or offered for sale, or sold unless
there appears on the package or container in which said drug is displayed or
offered for sale, or sold, a label stating “WARNING, DO NOT EXCEED THE
RECOMMENDED DOSAGE FOR THIS DRUG AS STATED ON THE LABEL”. Such warning
shall be in red lettering.



 



 



SEC. 46.14.  DISCLOSURE OF CONTENTS.



 



   No over-the-counter drug containing caffeine, ephedrine or
phenylpropanolamine shall be displayed or offered for sale, or sold, unless
the name and quantity of each active ingredient is stated on the label of the
container in which such drug is displayed or offered for sale or sold.



 



 



SEC. 46.15.  EXCEPTION.



 



   The provisions of this section shall not apply to the distribution of
an over-the-counter drug when dispensed as a placebo by a practitioner, as
the term “practitioner” is defined in Section 11026 of the Health and
Safety Code, in the course of lawful professional practice.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 6.6
BATH SALTS – SALE AND USE PROHIBITED



 




(Article and Section Added by Ord. No. 181,908, Eff. 10/20/11.)




 



 



Section



46.20   Products Containing Mephedrone, Methylenedioxypyrovalerone (MDPV)
or Any Other Chemical Derivative of Methcathinone – Sale and Use Prohibited.



 



 



SEC. 46.20.  PRODUCTS CONTAINING MEPHEDRONE, METHYLENEDIOXYPYROVALERONE
(MDPV) OR ANY OTHER CHEMICAL DERIVATIVE OF METHCATHINONE – SALE AND USE
PROHIBITED.



 



   (a)   It is unlawful for any person to display for sale, sell, give,
exchange, or otherwise distribute to any person products containing
Mephedrone, Methylendioxypyrovalerone (MDPV) or any other chemical derivative
of Methcathinone except as authorized by law.



 



   (b)   It is unlawful for any person to use, or to possess with
intent to use, ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce into the human body
products containing Mephedrone, MDPV or any other chemical derivative of
Methcathinone except as authorized by law.



 



   (c)   Penalty.  Violation of this Section shall constitute a
misdemeanor.



 



   (d)   Severability.  If any provision of this Section is found to
be unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent
jurisdiction, that invalidity shall not affect the remaining provisions which
can be implemented without the invalid provisions, and to this end, the
provisions of this Section are declared to be severable.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 6.7
LARGE-CAPACITY MAGAZINES – POSSESSION PROHIBITED



 




(Article and Section Added by Ord. No. 183,806, Eff. 9/19/15.)




 



 



Section



46.30   Large-Capacity Magazines – Possession Prohibited.



 



 



SEC. 46.30.  LARGE-CAPACITY MAGAZINES – POSSESSION PROHIBITED.



 



   (a)   Definitions.



 



   (1)   "LARGE-CAPACITY MAGAZINE" means any detachable ammunition
feeding device with the capacity to accept more than 10 rounds, but shall not
be construed to include any of the following:



 



   (i)   A feeding device that has been permanently altered so that it
cannot accommodate more than 10 rounds.



 



   (ii)   A .22 caliber tube ammunition feeding device.



 



   (iii)   A tubular magazine that is contained in a lever-action
firearm.



 



   (b)   Prohibition on Possession of Large-Capacity Magazines.



 



   (1)   It is unlawful for any person to possess any large-capacity
magazine, except as otherwise authorized by law, whether assembled or
disassembled.



 



   (2)   Any person who, prior to the effective date of this article,
was legally in possession of a large-capacity magazine shall have 60 days
from such effective date to do any of the following without being subject to
prosecution:



 



   (i)   Remove the large-capacity magazine from the City of Los
Angeles;



 



   (ii)   Surrender the large-capacity magazine to the Los Angeles
Police Department for destruction;



 



   (iii)   Sell or transfer the large-capacity magazine lawfully in
accordance with Section 32410 of the California Penal Code.



 



   (c)   Exemptions. The provisions of Subsection (b) shall not apply
to the following:



 



   (1)   Any government officer, agent, or employee, member of the
armed forces of the United States, or peace officer, to the extent that such
person is otherwise authorized by his or her respective federal, state,
county, or city law enforcement or military agency to possess a
large-capacity magazine for use in accordance with the law enforcement policy
of the agency;  (Amended by Ord. No. 184,007, Eff. 1/26/16.)



 



   (2)   A person licensed pursuant to Sections 26700 to 26915 of the
California Penal Code;



 



   (3)   A gunsmith for the purpose of maintenance, repair or
modification of the large-capacity magazine;



 



   (4)   Any entity that operates an armored vehicle business pursuant
to the laws of the state, and an authorized employee of such entity, while in
the course and scope of his or her employment for purposes that pertain to
the entity's armored vehicle business;



 



   (5)   Any person, corporation or other entity that manufactures the
large-capacity magazine for a person mentioned in Subdivision (1), or for
export pursuant to applicable federal regulations;



 



   (6)   Any person using the large-capacity magazine solely as a prop
for a motion picture, television or video production;



 



   (7)   Any holder of a special weapons permit issued pursuant to
California Penal Code Sections 18900, 31000, 32650, 32700-32720, or 33300;



 



   (8)   Any person issued a permit pursuant to California Penal Code
Section 32315 by the Department of Justice upon a showing of good cause for
the possession, transportation or sale of large-capacity magazines between a
person licensed pursuant to Sections 26700 to 26915 of the California Penal
Code, and an out-of-state client, when those activities are in accordance
with the terms and conditions of the permit;



 



   (9)   Any federal, state or local historical society, museum or
institutional collection which is open to the public, provided that the
large-capacity magazine is properly housed, secured from unauthorized
handling and unloaded;



 



   (10)   Any person who finds the large-capacity magazine, if the
person is not prohibited from possessing firearms or ammunition pursuant to
federal or state law, and the person possesses the large-capacity magazine no
longer than is necessary to deliver or transport the same to a law
enforcement agency for that agency's disposition according to the law;



 



   (11)   A forensic laboratory or any authorized agent or employee
thereof in the course and scope of his or her authorized activities;



 



   (12)   Any person in the business of selling or transferring
large-capacity magazines in accordance with California Penal Code Section
32310 who is in possession of a large-capacity magazine solely for the
purpose of doing so; or



 



   (13)   Any person lawfully in possession of a firearm that the
person obtained prior to January 1, 2000 if no magazine that holds 10 or less
rounds of ammunition is compatible with that firearm and the person possesses
the large-capacity magazine solely for use with that firearm.



 



   (14)   Any qualified retired peace officer, as defined by Section
926C of Title 18 of the United States Code, who has a valid Carry Concealed
Weapons endorsement, license or permit.  (Added by Ord. No. 184,007, Eff.
1/26/16.)



 



   (15)   Any qualified reserve peace officer, as defined by California
Penal Code Section 830.6, to the extent that such person is otherwise
authorized by his or her respective state, county, or city law enforcement
agency to possess a large-capacity magazine for use in accordance with the
law enforcement policy of the agency. (Added by Ord. No. 184,007, Eff.
1/26/16.)



 



   (d)   Penalty. Violation of this section shall constitute a
misdemeanor.



 



   (e)   This Section shall expire on July 1, 2017, unless the City
Council acts by ordinance to amend this Section to extend its effective
period.  (Added by Ord. No. 184,767, Eff. 4/4/17.)



 



   (f)   Severability. If any provision of this ordinance is found to
be unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent
jurisdiction, that invalidity shall not affect the remaining provisions which
can be implemented without the invalid provisions, and to this end, the
provisions of this ordinance are declared to be severable.  (Renumbered by
Ord. No. 184,767, Eff. 4/4/17.)



 



 



 



ARTICLE 6.7.1
SUICIDE PREVENTION SIGNS



 




(Article and Section Added by Ord. No. 185,477, Eff. 4/29/18.)




 



 



Section



46.40   Suicide Prevention Signage at Firearm Stores and Firing Ranges.



 



 



SEC. 46.40.  SUICIDE PREVENTION SIGNAGE AT FIREARM STORES AND FIRING RANGES.



 



   (a)   Definitions.



 



   (1)   "FIREARM" means any pistol, revolver, shotgun, rifle, or other
firearm, as that term is defined in Section 103.314 of this Code.



 



   (2)   "DEALER" means any person who is engaged in the retail sale of
firearms and any retail firearms dealer, as that term is defined in Section
103.314 of this Code.



 



   (3)   "FIRING RANGE" means any shooting gallery, rifle range, gun
club, trap shooting range, or other place where firearms are discharged.



 



   (b)   Posting Requirements.



 



   (1)   Any firearm dealer or owner of a firing range shall post or
cause to be posted a sign as provided in this section on the retail premises
of the firearm dealer or the premises of the firing range.



 



   (2)   The sign required by this section shall read substantially as
follows:



 




IF YOU OR SOMEONE YOU KNOW IS CONTEMPLATING SUICIDE, PLEASE CALL THE NATIONAL
SUICIDE PREVENTION LIFELINE AT 1-800-273-TALK (8255).




 



   (3)   The sign shall not be smaller than 8 inches wide and 11.5
inches long, nor shall any lettering on the sign be less than 1 inch in
height.



 



   (4)   A firearm dealer or firing range owner shall post or cause to
be posted the sign required by this section in a conspicuous location at
either its purchase counter, customer service counter, or other area
frequented by customers patronizing the business.



 



   (5)   If more than 20 percent of the customers patronizing the
firearm dealer's retail premises or the firing range speak a language other
than English as a primary language, the sign required by this section shall
be worded in both English and the primary language or languages of those
customers.



 



   (c)   Severability.  If any provision of this ordinance is found to
be unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent
jurisdiction, that invalidity shall not affect the remaining provisions that
can be implemented without the invalid provisions, and to this end, the
provisions of this ordinance are declared to be severable.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 6.8
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES – WARNING SIGNS



 




(Sec. 46.80, Art. 6.8, Ch. IV, Added by Ord. No. 161,361, Eff. 7/19/86.)




 



 



Section



46.80   Signs – Dangers of Consuming Alcoholic Beverages During
Pregnancy.



 



 



SEC. 46.80.  SIGNS – DANGERS OF CONSUMING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES DURING
PREGNANCY.



 



   (a)   Duty to Post. Any person or entity who owns, operates,
manages, leases or rents a premises offering for sale or dispensing for
consideration to the public, alcoholic beverages including beer and wine
shall cause a sign or notice to be posted or displayed on the premises as
provided in this Section. The sign or notice shall comply with the
readability requirements specified herein and shall read substantially as
follows: WARNING. DRINKING WINE, BEER AND OTHER ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES DURING
PREGNANCY CAN CAUSE BIRTH DEFECTS. In no event shall a sign as required
herein be smaller than 8 inches wide and 8 inches long, nor shall any
lettering thereon be less than 1 inch in height.



 



   (b)   Placement. A sign or notice required by Subsection (a) above
shall be placed as follows:



 



   (1)   Where the sale or dispensing of alcoholic beverages, including
beer and wine, to the public is primarily intended for consumption off the
premises, at least one sign shall be so placed as to assure that it is
readable from all locations at which said sale or dispensing occur.



 



   (2)   Where the sale or dispensing of alcoholic beverages, including
beer and wine, to the public is primarily provided through over-the-counter
service, at least one sign shall be placed to assure that is readable from
all counter locations available to the public.



 



   (3)   Where the sale or dispensing of alcoholic beverages, including
beer and wine, to the public is primarily provided for consumption on the
premises by the public at tables served by food or beverage service persons,
at least one sign shall be placed to assure it is readable by the public
entering the premises; provided however, that notices may be placed or
displayed at each of the tables in a manner which will assure that the
notices are as readily visible and readable as materials provided to the
public which list food and beverage prices.



 



   (c)   Language. In the event a substantial number of the public
patronizing a premises offering for sale or dispensing for consideration,
alcoholic beverages, including beer and wine, uses a language other than
English as a primary language, any sign or notice required by Subsection (a)
above shall be worded in both English and the primary language or languages
involved.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 6.9
TOBACCO RETAILER’S PERMIT



 




(Article Added by Ord. No. 173,260, Eff. 6/25/00; Title Added by Ord. No.
179,436, Eff. 1/28/08.)




 



 



Section



46.90   Definitions.



46.91   Tobacco Retailer’s Permit Required.



46.92   Application Procedure.



46.93   Issuance of Permit.



46.94   Display of Permit.



46.95   Fees for Permit.



46.96   Renewal of Permit; Delinquency.



46.97   Permits Not Transferable.



46.98   Administrative Violations.



46.99   Administrative Penalties



46.100   Right to Administrative Review and Procedures.



46.101   Severability.



 



 



SEC. 46.90.  DEFINITIONS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 182,823, Eff. 1/22/14.)



 



   (a)   "Proprietor" shall mean a person with ownership or managerial
interest in the business.  An ownership interest shall be deemed to exist
when a person has ten percent or greater interest in the stock, assets, or
income of a business.  A managerial interest shall be deemed to exist when a
person can or does, have or share, ultimate control over the day-to-day
operations of the business.



 



   (b)   "Tobacco paraphernalia" shall mean cigarette papers or
wrappers, pipes, holders of smoking materials of all types, cigarette rolling
machines, and any other item designed for the smoking, preparation, storing,
or consumption of tobacco products.



 



   (c)   "Tobacco product" shall mean any substance containing tobacco
leaf, including but not limited to cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco, snuff,
chewing tobacco, dipping tobacco, bidis or beedies, hookah tobacco or any
other preparation of tobacco.  "Tobacco product" shall also include any
product or formulation of matter containing nicotine derived from tobacco, or
synthetic nicotine, that is manufactured, sold, offered for sale, or
otherwise distributed with the expectation that the product or matter will be
introduced into the human body.  "Tobacco product" does not include any
cessation product specifically approved by the United States Food and Drug
Administration for use in treating nicotine or tobacco dependence.



 



   (d)   "Tobacco retailer" shall mean any person or proprietor who
sells, offers for sale, or exchanges or offers to exchange for any form of
consideration, tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco paraphernalia.  "Tobacco
retailing" shall mean engaging in any of the above.  These definitions are
without regard to the quantity of tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco
paraphernalia sold, offered for sale, exchanged, or offered for exchange.



 



   (e)   "Arm's length transaction" shall mean a sale in good faith and
for valuable consideration that reflects the fair market value in the open
market between two informed and willing parties, neither of which is under
any compulsion to participate in the transaction.  A sale between relatives,
related companies or partners, or a sale for which a significant purpose is
avoiding the effect of the violations of this article is not an arm's length
transaction.



 



 



SEC. 46.91.  TOBACCO RETAILER’S PERMIT  REQUIRED.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 183,819, Eff. 9/30/15.)



 



   (a)   It shall be a misdemeanor for any person or proprietor, within
the City of Los Angeles, to act as a tobacco retailer at a location for which
a valid Tobacco Retailer's Permit has not been issued pursuant to this
article. A separate Tobacco Retailer's Permit is required for each location
at which tobacco retailing is to occur. No permit shall be issued to
authorize tobacco retailing at any place other than a fixed location. Tobacco
retailing from any non-permanent location, including from vehicles, is
prohibited. No permit shall be issued for residences, newsstands, or
locations where engaging in tobacco retailing is prohibited by federal,
state, or local law.



 



   (b)   A person or proprietor without a valid Tobacco Retailer's
Permit, including a person or proprietor whose permit has been suspended or
revoked, shall keep all tobacco products and tobacco paraphernalia out of
public view. The public display of tobacco products or tobacco paraphernalia
in violation of this provision shall constitute tobacco retailing without a
permit.



 



   (c)   A person or proprietor, whose permit has been suspended or
revoked, shall not display any advertisement relating to tobacco products or
tobacco paraphernalia that promotes the sale or distribution of such products
from the tobacco retailer's location or that would lead a reasonable consumer
to believe that such products can be obtained at the tobacco retailer's
location.



 



   (d)   Each day that a person or proprietor sells or offers for sale
tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco paraphernalia without a valid Tobacco
Retailer's Permit shall constitute a separate violation.



 



 



SEC. 46.92.  APPLICATION PROCEDURE.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 182,823, Eff. 1/22/14.)



 



   (a)   Application for a Tobacco Retailer's Permit shall be submitted
to the Office of Finance by any proprietor of a business seeking the
permit.  Each applicant shall be responsible for reviewing the conditions of
conducting retail tobacco sales within the City of Los Angeles and shall
agree to abide by these conditions by signing the application under penalty
of perjury.  All applications shall be submitted on a form supplied by the
City and shall contain the following information:



 



   (1)   The business name, address and telephone number of the
location for which the Tobacco Retailer's Permit is sought.



 



   (2)   The name, mailing address and telephone number of the
proprietor or person authorized to receive communications and notices
required by or authorized by this article.  If such information is not
supplied, each proprietor shall be understood to consent to the provision of
notice at the business address of the location for which the Tobacco
Retailer's Permit is sought.



 



   (3)   Such other information as the City Attorney deems necessary
for enforcement of this ordinance.



 



   (b)   A Tobacco Retailer's Permit must be obtained prior to the sale
of any tobacco product.  A new Tobacco Retailer's Permit must be obtained
upon change of ownership or upon change of form of ownership prior to the
sale of any tobacco product or tobacco paraphernalia, including but not
limited to a sole proprietor becoming a corporation.



 



 



SEC. 46.93.  ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 183,819, Eff. 9/30/15.)



 



   (a)   The permit shall state the following on its face:



 



   (1)   Legal owner;



 



   (2)   Doing Business As (D.B.A.);



 



   (3)   Los Angeles Municipal Code section regulating Tobacco
Retailer's Permits;



 



   (4)   Business and mailing addresses;



 



   (5)   Date permit was issued and permit expiration date;



 



   (6)   Account number.



 



   (b)   Upon the receipt of an application for a Tobacco Retailer's
Permit and fee payment, the Office of Finance shall issue a permit, unless
the City Attorney demonstrates one of the following bases for denial:



 



   (1)   The application is incomplete or inaccurate; or



 



   (2)   The application seeks authorization for tobacco retailing at a
location for which a suspension or revocation is in effect pursuant to
Section 46.99; or



 



   (3)   The application seeks authorization for tobacco retailing that
is unlawful pursuant to any section of this article or any federal, state or
local law.

   (c)   A Tobacco Retailer's Permit issued in error or on the basis of
false or misleading information supplied by a proprietor may be revoked.



 



   (d)   City Attorney's Responsibilities. It shall be the
responsibility of the City Attorney or his/her designee to enforce all
provisions set forth in this article, which includes, but is not limited to,
the following:



 



   (1)   Investigate and prosecute tobacco retailers who fail to obtain
and/or maintain a Tobacco Retailer's Permit.



 



   (2)   Conduct any and all audits that may be necessary in the
investigation of tobacco retailers.



 



   (e)   Office of Finance Responsibilities. It shall be the duty of
the Office of Finance to administer and process the Tobacco Retailer's Permit
application; mail renewal notices to permittees; and deposit funds collected
for each Tobacco Retailer's Permit into the General Fund.



 



 



SEC. 46.94.  DISPLAY OF PERMIT.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 183,819, Eff. 9/30/15.)



 



   Any Tobacco Retailer's Permit issued pursuant to this article shall be
prominently displayed in public view at the location for which it is issued.
A violation of this section shall be punishable as an infraction.



 



 



SEC. 46.95.  FEES FOR PERMIT.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 182,823, Eff. 1/22/14.)



 



   (a)   A fee shall be charged for a Tobacco Retailer's Permit.  The
permit fee for calendar year 2018 and 2019 shall be $300.  The permit fee
for calendar year 2020 and thereafter shall be $437.  All fees are
non-refundable, except as required by law, and shall be used exclusively to
reimburse the costs incurred for the program.  Fees shall not be prorated. 
All fees collected shall be deposited into the General Fund.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 186,099, Eff. 6/13/19.)



 



   (b)   A $5.00 charge shall be imposed for the issuance of a
duplicate permit upon the permittee or an authorized representative stating,
in a properly executed affidavit of loss, that the original permit has been
lost or destroyed.  This charge shall be deposited into the General Fund.



 



 



SEC. 46.96.  RENEWAL OF PERMIT; DELINQUENCY.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 182,823, Eff. 1/22/14.)



 



   A Tobacco Retailer's Permit is invalid unless the required fee has been
paid in full and the term of the permit has not yet expired.  The term of
the permit shall be one year, and the permit shall be deemed expired on
December 31st of the year for which the permit was issued.  Renewal
statements shall be due and payable November 1st of each year and shall be
delinquent by January 1st of the next year.  Delinquent renewals shall be
charged an additional sum equal to 25 percent of the required permit fee. 
Such additional sum shall become a part of the fee required by the Office of
Finance.



 



 



SEC. 46.97.  PERMITS NOT TRANSFERABLE.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 182,823, Eff. 1/22/14.)



 



   A Tobacco Retailer's Permit is non transferable.  If a new person or
proprietor acquires a business engaged in tobacco retailing, that person or
proprietor must apply for a new permit before engaging in the sale of tobacco
products or tobacco paraphernalia.



 



 



SEC. 46.98.  ADMINISTRATIVE VIOLATIONS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 183,819, Eff. 9/30/15.)



 



   (a)   Cumulative to Other Violations. The violations set forth in
this section are cumulative to, and in addition to, any other violations of
federal, state or local law and shall be punished as specified in Section
46.99.



 



   (b)   Failure to Comply With Federal, State or Local Law. An
administrative violation shall be found when the City Attorney is in receipt
of an official record of any court or governmental agency that demonstrates
that a tobacco retailer, or any of the tobacco retailer's agents or
employees, has violated any federal, state or local law applicable to tobacco
retailing, or has allowed smoking in an enclosed place of employment in
violation of California Labor Code Section 6404.5. An official record of any
court or governmental agency includes, but is not limited to, an abstract
from the State of California Department of Public Health that a tobacco
retailer has paid a civil monetary penalty imposed for violating the Stop
Tobacco Access to Kids Enforcement Act (Business and Professions Code
Division 8.5), or a certified court docket reflecting the entry of a plea of
guilty or "no contest" to a criminal charge involving tobacco retailing or to
a violation of California Labor Code Section 6404.5.



 



 



SEC. 46.99.  ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES



   (Amended by Ord. No. 183,819, Eff. 9/30/15.)



 



   (a)   Any tobacco retailer determined by the City Attorney or
his/her designee to have violated Section 46.98 shall be subject to the
penalties of this section. The City Attorney or his/her designee shall notify
the tobacco retailer that there has been an initial determination of
violation under the provisions of this ordinance, and shall specify the
violation and the penalty imposed, including the effective date of the
suspension, if any. The notice shall further state that the tobacco retailer
may, within 15 calendar days of receipt of the notice, submit to the City
Attorney any written or documentary evidence to contest the initial
determination of violation. After receiving and considering the evidence that
is provided, the City Attorney or his/her designee shall prepare a final
written decision with findings, and shall serve this final determination upon
the tobacco retailer. Upon written request, the tobacco retailer shall have
the right to receive copies of any records upon which the final determination
is based. This final determination shall be served within 30 calendar days of
the initial determination.



 



   (b)   Administrative penalties shall be imposed as follows:



 



   (1)   For the first violation in any five-year period, the Tobacco
Retailer's Permit shall be suspended for 30 calendar days;



 



   (2)   For the second violation in any five-year period, the Tobacco
Retailer's Permit shall be suspended for 90 calendar days;



 



   (3)   For a third violation in any five-year period, the Tobacco
Retailer's Permit shall be suspended for 120 calendar days;



 



   (4)   For a fourth violation in any five-year period, the Tobacco
Retailer's Permit shall be revoked. The Office of Finance shall not issue a
Tobacco Retailer's Permit to a location at which a Tobacco Retailer's Permit
has been revoked unless a period of three years has passed since the date of
the issuance of the revocation, and the tobacco retailer attends and
completes a tobacco retailer education program provided by the City Attorney.



 



   (c)   For the duration of any Tobacco Retailer's Permit suspension,
the tobacco retailer shall clearly and conspicuously post a Notice of
Suspension sign provided by the City Attorney at each customer entrance.
Failure to post the Notice of Suspension sign during a suspension period
shall be punishable as an infraction.



 



   (d)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, prior
violations, permit suspension periods and permit revocation shall continue to
apply to a location unless the business engaged in tobacco retailing at that
location has been fully transferred to a new proprietor with no financial
relationship to the former proprietor, and the new proprietor provides the
City Attorney with clear and convincing evidence that the new proprietor has
acquired or is acquiring the business in an arm's-length transaction.



 



   (1)   The City Attorney's determination of an arm's-length
transaction shall be provided to the Office of Finance in written form and
waive the requirements for reinstatement of a revoked permit listed in
Subsection (b)(4) of this section.



 



 



SEC. 46.100.  RIGHT TO ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW AND PROCEDURES.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 182,823, Eff. 1/22/14.)



 



   (a)   The tobacco retailer shall have the right to an administrative
review of the final determination of the City Attorney.  The administrative
review shall be conducted by the Police Permit Review Panel as authorized by
Section 102.13.01 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.  To obtain an
administrative review of the City Attorney's final determination, the tobacco
retailer must notify the City Attorney, in writing, within 15 calendar days
of its receipt of the City Attorney's final determination.  The timely
filing of a request for an administrative review shall hold in abeyance any
permit suspension until the administrative review is heard and decided.



 



   (b)   Notice of Review.  If a review is requested pursuant to
Section 46.100(a) the City Attorney shall provide written notice, within 45
calendar days of its receipt of the request, to the tobacco retailer of the
date, time, and place of the review.



 



   (c)   Review Procedure.  The administrative review hearing shall be
recorded by a certified court reporter.  During the hearing, no evidence or
testimony shall be presented to the Police Permit Review Panel.  The purpose
of the Panel's review is to ascertain whether the final determination of the
City Attorney was supported by the administrative record.  A decision shall
be rendered by the Police Permit Review Panel at the conclusion of the
hearing.  Notice of the decision shall be mailed to the tobacco retailer who
requested the review.



 



   (d)   Finality of The Police Permit Review Panel's Decision.  The
decision of the Police Permit Review Panel shall be the final decision of the
City.



 



 



SEC. 46.101.  SEVERABILITY.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 182,823, Eff. 1/22/14.)



 



   If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or
phrase of this Ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid or
unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect the
validity or enforceability of the remaining sections, subsections,
subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases of this Ordinance or
the rules adopted hereby.  The City Council of the City of Los Angeles
hereby declares that it would have adopted independently each section,
subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase hereof,
irrespective of the fact that any one or more other sections, subsections,
subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases hereof be declared
invalid or unenforceable.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 7
MISCELLANEOUS



 



 



Section



47.00   Posting of Telephone Number of the Fire Department Emergency
Ambulance Service in Eating Establishments.



47.02   Marathons – Endurance Contests and Exhibitions.



47.04   Sale of Used or Secondhand Hats.



47.05   New Locks in Apartments – Installation Required.



47.06   Tenant Relocation Assistance Where Apartments Are to Be Converted.



47.07   Tenant Relocation Assistance Where Apartments Are to Be Demolished.



47.08   Tenant Relocation Assistance Where Mobilehome Parks Are Changed to
a Different Use.



47.09   Mobilehome Park Closure Impact Report.



47.10   Landlords – Nonpayment of Utility Bills.



47.11   Display of Aerosol Spray Paint Containers and Marker Pens.



47.12   Excessive Price Increases During State of Emergency.



47.13   Insertion of Writings into Containers.



47.14   Self Service Display of Tobacco Products.



47.15   Spectators Prohibited at Speed Contests and Exhibitions of Speed.



47.16   Display and Sale of Glass Etching Products.



47.17   Sale of Motor-driven Cycles and Motorized Bicycles.



47.50   Narcotics, Violent Crime, Unlawful Weapon or Ammunition Crime, and
Gang-Related Crime Eviction Program.



 



 



SEC. 47.00.  POSTING OF TELEPHONE NUMBER OF THE FIRE DEPARTMENT EMERGENCY
AMBULANCE SERVICE IN EATING ESTABLISHMENTS.



   (Added by No. 148,123, Eff. 4/11/76.)



 



   Every person conducting, operating or managing any restaurant,
cafeteria, coffee shop, food stand or other eating establishment where food
is sold to be consumed on the premises thereof shall display near each
telephone located upon said premises the local telephone number to summon the
Fire Department Emergency Ambulance Service for the area involved. Said
telephone number shall be set forth as follows:



 




“EMERGENCY CALLS





AMBULANCE (telephone number)”




 



 



SEC. 47.01.  HOTELS, MOTELS, LODGING AND ROOMING HOUSES – REGISTER
REQUIRED.



   (Repealed by Ord. No. 177,966, Eff. 12/2/06.)



 



 



SEC. 47.02.  MARATHONS – ENDURANCE CONTESTS AND EXHIBITIONS.



 



   No person shall conduct carry on or participate in any marathon dance
contest or exhibition or any walkathon or walking contest or exhibition, or
any tree sitting, pole sitting, or platform endurance contest or exhibition,
or any contest or exhibition in which any human being is buried or concealed
underground, or any other endurance contest or exhibition of a nature similar
to any contest or exhibition enumerated herein.



 



   See CR A 1303.



 



 



SEC. 47.03.  POLITICAL SOLICITATIONS FROM CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.



   (Repealed by Ord. No. 172,890, Eff. 12/16/99.)



 



 



SEC. 47.04.  SALE OF USED OR SECONDHAND HATS.



 



   No person shall sell, expose for sale, offer for sale, or trade any
used or secondhand hat unless:



 



   (a)   Such hat has securely and conspicuously affixed therein a
label upon which there is printed in the English language the name and
address of the manufacturer of the hat, and also either the words “Used
Hat”, or the words “Secondhand Hat”; and



 



   (b)   A sign bearing either the words, “Used Hats”, or the
words, “Secondhand Hats”, and legible at a distance of thirty (30) feet,
is kept posted in a conspicuous place on the premises where such hats are
sold, exposed for sale, offered for sale or trade, or a sign bearing either
the words, “Used Hats”, or the words, “Secondhand Hats”, is kept
posted at or adjacent to the counter, or other place, where such hats are
sold, exposed for sale, offered for sale or trade.



 



 



SEC. 47.05.  NEW LOCKS IN APARTMENTS – INSTALLATION REQUIRED.



   (Added by Ord. No. 151,381, Eff. 10/6/78.)



 



   As used herein the terms “dwelling unit” and “apartment hotel”
shall be defined as those terms are defined in Section 12.03 of this Code.



 



   Any person managing controlling, leasing or renting any previously
occupied dwelling unit, other than a dwelling unit in an apartment hotel
which is customarily occupied for a period of 15 days or less, shall, at the
time any lease or rental of such dwelling unit is entered into, notify the
lessee that any lock on the leased or rented premises will be changed upon
written request therefor. If requested, such lock change shall be
accomplished within 15 days after the date of such request by either
installing a new lock, installing another key cylinder or by altering the
pins of the existing lock so that such lock can be opened only with a new
key. A violation of any of the provisions of this section shall be punishable
as an infraction.



 



 



SEC. 47.06.  TENANT RELOCATION ASSISTANCE WHERE APARTMENTS ARE TO BE
CONVERTED.



   (Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 153,592, Eff. 5/11/80.)



 



   A.   Statement of Purposes.  At the present time, there is a
critically short supply of rental housing in the City of Los Angeles. Many
rental housing units have been removed from the rental market through
conversion to condominiums, stock cooperatives, community apartment projects,
hotels and commercial uses. Tenants who are evicted due to conversion are
experiencing serious difficulties in locating comparable replacement rental
housing. These difficulties are particularly acute for elderly tenants and
those with physical limitations, particularly the handicapped and disabled.
In addition, families with minor dependent children face greater relocation
difficulties than families without such children.



 



   The City’s condominium conversion ordinance addresses these grave
public health and welfare problems in the context of new conversions of
existing rental units to various forms of divided ownership. However, that
ordinance does not provide assistance to tenants displaced due to the
conversion of their rental units to condominiums, stock cooperatives or
community apartment projects exempted from the new conversion ordinance, or
to hotels. Additionally, in some instances tenants displaced due to
conversions already approved by the City (under the previous conversion
ordinance) are not receiving relocation assistance, yet often face similar
relocation difficulties.



 



   Since the conversion of rental units to condominiums, stock
cooperatives, community apartment projects, hotels and commercial uses is a
substantial cause of the rental housing shortage, the City Council finds and
declares that it would be just and proper for the subdividers who may enjoy
the benefits of such conversions to assist tenants who are displaced by the
conversion activity and who otherwise would be forced to bear the burdens of
displacement without any assistance. The Council also finds that the
necessity for relocation assistance is significantly less for the tenants of
luxury apartment units.



 



   B.   Definitions.  For purposes of this section, the definitions in
Section 12.03 of this Code and the following definitions shall apply:



 



   Landlord:  An owner, lessor, or sublessor, (including any person,
firm, corporation, partnership, or other entity) who receives or is entitled
to receive rent for the use of any rental unit, or the agent, representative
or successor of any of the foregoing.



 



   Notice of Termination:  The notice of intention to terminate tenancy,
whether given by a landlord or by a tenant, provided for by California Civil
Code Section 1946. (Amended by Ord. No. 155,397, Eff. 8/2/81.)



 



   Qualified Tenant:  Any tenant who satisfies any of the following
criteria on the date said tenant gives or receives a Notice of Termination: 
has attained age 62; is handicapped as defined in Section 50072 of the
California Health and Safety Code; is disabled as defined Title 42 United
States Code 423; or is a person residing with and on whom is legally
dependent (as determined for federal income tax purposes) one or more minor
children. (Amended by Ord.No. 162,743, Eff. 9/24/87.)



 



   Relocation Assistance Service Provider:  A company that specializes in
relocation assistance and has a contract with the City for the delivery of
those services.  (Added by Ord. No. 178,632, Eff. 5/26/07.)



 



   Rental Unit:  Each dwelling unit, efficiency dwelling unit, guest
room, and suite in the City of Los Angeles, as defined in Section 12.03 of
this Code, together with the land and buildings appurtenant thereto, and all
housing services, privileges, furnishings and facilities supplied in
connection with the use or occupancy thereof, including garage and parking
facilities. The term shall not include:



 



   1.   A one-family dwelling, except where three or more dwelling
units are located on the same lot;



 



   2.   Housing accommodations in hotels, motels, inns, tourist homes
and boarding and rooming houses, provided that at such time as an
accommodation has been occupied by one or more of the same tenants for sixty
60 days or more such accommodation shall become a rental unit subject to the
provisions of this section.



 



   3.   Housing accommodations in any hospital, convent, monastery,
extended medical care facility, asylum, nonprofit home for the aged,
fraternity or sorority house, or housing accommodations owned, operated or
managed by an institution of higher education, a high school or an elementary
school for occupancy by its students.



 



   4.   Housing accommodations which a government unit, agency or
authority owns, operates, or manages, or which are specifically exempted from
municipal rent regulation by state or federal law or administrative
regulation.



 



   5.   Luxury housing accommodations wherein as of May 31,1978 the
rent charged per month was at least $302 for a unit with no bedrooms, $420
for a unit with one bedroom; $588 for a unit with two bedrooms; $756 for a
unit with three bedrooms; and $823 for a unit with four bedrooms or more.



 



   6.   Mobile home.



 



   Tenant:  A tenant, subtenant, lessee, sublessee, or any other person
entitled to use or occupancy of a rental unit. Tenant does not include any
person who:



 



   (1)  is residing in a conversion project and intends to purchase a
unit in such project after conversion has been accomplished, or who intends
to reside with such a purchaser, or



 



   (2)   (Deleted by Ord. No. 185,224, Eff. 12/13/17.)



 



   C.   Relocation Assistance Required.  In connection with the
conversion of a building into a condominium, community apartment or stock
cooperative, as those terms are defined in the California Government Code and
Business and Professions Code, or into a hotel or apartment hotel or to a use
permitted in any commercial zone, the landlord shall pay the City a fee for
the purpose of providing relocation assistance by the City's Relocation
Assistance Service Provider to each tenant in accordance with Subsection D.
of this section.  The fee shall be $640 for each unit occupied by a
qualified tenant and $400 for each unit occupied by other tenants, and an
additional $55 per unit administrative fee to pay for the administrative
costs associated with this service.  The fees, set forth above, may be
increased in an amount based on the Consumer Price Index - All Urban
Consumers averaged for the first 12-month period ending September 30, of each
year, as determined and published by the Housing and Community Investment
Department on or before May 30, of each year, pursuant to Section 151.07 A.6.
of this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,718, Eff. 10/30/13.)



 



   This subsection shall not apply where a subdivision map application for
condominiums, stock cooperative or community apartment purposes was filed for
approval with the City prior to the issuance of the original certificate of
occupancy for the building.  A landlord's obligation to comply with
Subsection D. of this section does not exist prior to the time the landlord
gives the notice of intention to convert required by Government Code Section
66427.1.



 



   D.   Relocation Assistance.  Relocation assistance, where required
by the preceding subsection, shall be provided in accordance with the
following provisions.



 



   1.   Landlord’s Responsibility.



 



   a.   (Amended by Ord. No. 178,632, Eff. 5/26/07.)  The landlord
shall pay a fee to the City so that a Relocation Assistance Service Provider
will:



 



   (1)   Make available to each tenant, at no cost, a reasonably
complete and current list of vacant and available rental units which are
comparable as to size and amenities to the unit occupied by the tenant, and



 



   (2)   Make a reasonable and good faith effort to assure that tenants
without cars are driven, at no cost, and tenants with cars are assisted, in
order to inspect replacement rental units, and



 



   (3)   Hire an ambulance or similar vehicle, at no cost to the
tenant, and otherwise take reasonable steps to assist any disabled or
handicapped tenant with relocation-related activities.



 



   b.   (Amended by Ord. No. 178,632, Eff. 5/26/07.)  In order to
assist the tenants in meeting costs of relocation, higher rents for
replacement housing, and any related expenses, pay a relocation fee in the
following amounts.  If more than one fee applies to a rental unit, pay the
highest of the applicable fees:



 



   (1)   $14,850 to qualified tenants and a $6,810 fee to all other
tenants who have lived in their rental unit for fewer than three years, or



 



   (2)   $17,080 to qualified tenants and a $9,040 fee to all other
tenants who have lived in their rental unit for three years or longer, or



 



   (3)   $18,300 to qualified tenants and $9,650 to all other tenants
whose household income is 80 percent or below Area Median Income, as adjusted
for household size, as defined by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development regardless of length of tenancy.  Tenants who claim eligibility
pursuant to this Subparagraph shall file a statement with the Housing and
Community Investment Department verifying their income on a form prescribed
by the Housing and Community Investment Department.  Requests for a hearing
to appeal a decision regarding a tenant's relocation assistance, including
disputes about eligibility for higher relocation assistance based on a
tenant's income, age, length of tenancy, family status and disability status,
must be filed in writing on the form prescribed by the Housing and Community
Investment Department.  The Housing and Community Investment Department
shall charge the appellant a fee of $193 per rental unit to cover the
administrative costs of the hearing.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,718, Eff.
10/30/13.)



 



   (4)   The above listed relocation assistance fees will sunset on
July 1, 2008, unless the City Council acts by resolution to extend these
provisions.  If these provisions are not extended, the following provision
will become effective on July 1, 2008:



 



   $17,080 to qualified tenants and a $9,040 fee to all other tenants.



 



   For the year beginning July 1, 2008, and all subsequent years, the fee
amounts shall be adjusted on an annual basis pursuant to the formula set
forth in Section 151.06 D. of this Code.  The adjusted amount shall be
rounded to the nearest $50 increment.



 



   c.   (Added by Ord. No. 178,632, Eff. 5/26/07.)  The relocation fee
provided for in Paragraph b. above, shall be made as follows:



 



   (1)   The entire fee shall be paid to a tenant who is the only
tenant in a rental unit;



 



   (2)   If a rental unit is occupied by two or more tenants, then each
tenant of the unit shall be paid an equal, pro-rata share of the fee.



 



   In no event shall the landlord be liable to pay more than the maximum
relocation amounts set forth above to all tenants residing in a rental
unit.  If a tenant is entitled to monetary relocation benefits pursuant to
City administrative agency action or any provision of local, state or federal
law, then those benefits shall operate as a credit against any fee required
to be paid to the tenant under this section.



 



   2.   When Assistance Shall Be Provided.  (Amended by Ord. No.
178,632, Eff. 5/26/07.)



 



   a.   Payment for Relocation Assistance Service Provider.  The
landlord shall perform the acts described in Paragraph a. of Subdivision 1.
above on or before the service of the 180-day notice of intention to convert.



 



   b.   Monetary Assistance.  The landlord shall perform the acts
described in Paragraph b. of Subdivision 1. above within 15 days of service
of the Notice of Termination or within 15 days of receiving notice from the
tenant of his/her intention to terminate the tenancy subsequent to approval
of a tentative parcel or tract map and prior to receiving a Notice of
Termination of Tenancy.



 



   E.   Civil Remedies.  In an action by a landlord to recover
possession of a rental unit, a tenant may raise as an affirmative defense the
failure of the landlord to comply with Subsection D of this section. In
addition, any landlord who fails to provide monetary relocation assistance to
a tenant as required by this section shall be liable in a civil action to the
tenant to whom such assistance is due for damages in the amount the landlord
has failed to pay, together with reasonable attorney fees and costs as
determined by the court.  (Amended by Ord. No. 155,397, Eff. 8/2/81.)



 



   F.   (Deleted by Ord. No. 178,632, Eff. 5/26/07.)



 



 



SEC. 47.07.  TENANT RELOCATION ASSISTANCE WHERE APARTMENTS ARE TO BE
DEMOLISHED.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 153,591, Eff. 5/11/80.)



 



   A.   Statement of Purpose.  The provisions of this section are
intended to provide relocation assistance to tenants facing eviction due to
demolition or removal of their building to another site. Such assistance is
required for the reasons stated in Section 47.06.



 



   B.   Definitions.  For purposes of this section, the definitions in
Section 12.03 of this Code and the following definitions shall apply:



 



   Landlord:  An owner, lessor, or sublessor, (including any person,
firm, corporation, partnership, or other entity) who receives or is entitled
to receive rent for the use of any rental unit, or the agent, representative
or successor of any of the foregoing.



 



   Notice of Termination:  The notice of intention to terminate tenancy,
whether given by a landlord or by a tenant, provided for by California Civil
Code Section 1946. (Amended by Ord. No. 155,397, Eff. 8/2/81.)



 



   Qualified Tenant:  Any tenant who satisfies any of the following
criteria on the date said tenant gives or receives a Notice of Termination: 
has attained age 62; is handicapped as defined in Section 50072 of the
California Health and Safely Code; is disabled as defined in Title 42 United
States Code  423; or is a person residing with and on whom is legally
dependent (as determined for federal income tax purposes) one or more minor
children. (Amended by Ord. No. 162,743, Eff. 9/24/87.)



 



   Relocation Assistance Service Provider:  A company that specializes in
relocation assistance and has a contract with the City for the delivery of
such services.  (Added by Ord. No. 178,632, Eff. 5/26/07.)



 



   Rental Unit:  Each dwelling unit, efficiency dwelling unit, guest
room, and suite in the City of Los Angeles, as defined in Section 12.03 of
this Code, together with the land and buildings appurtenant thereto, and all
housing services, privileges, furnishings and facilities supplied in
connection with the use or occupancy thereof, including garage and parking
facilities. The term shall not include:



 



   1.   A one-family dwelling, except where three or more dwelling
units are located on the same lot.



 



   2.   A two family dwelling, provided that one dwelling unit therein
is occupied by a record owner of the property.



 



   3.   An apartment house or apartment hotel, provided that such house
or hotel contains at most three dwelling units and one such dwelling unit is
occupied by a record owner of the property.



 



   4.   Housing accommodations in hotels, motels, inns, tourist homes
and boarding and rooming houses, provided that at such time as an
accommodation has been occupied by one or more of the same tenants for sixty
60 days or more such accommodation shall become a rental unit subject to the
provisions of this section.



 



   5.   Housing accommodations in any hospital, convent, monastery,
extended medical care facility, asylum, nonprofit home for the aged,
fraternity or sorority house, or housing accommodations owned, operated or
managed by an institution of higher education, a high school or an elementary
school for occupancy by its students.



 



   6.   Housing accommodations which a government unit, agency or
authority owns, operates, or manages, or which are specifically exempted from
municipal rent regulation by state or federal law or administrative
regulation.



 



   7.   Luxury housing accommodations wherein as of May 31, 1978 the
rent charged per month was at least $302 for a unit with no bedrooms, $420
for a unit with one bedroom; $588 for a unit with two bedrooms; $756 for a
unit with three bedrooms; and $823 for a unit with four bedrooms or more.



 



   8.   Mobile home.



 



   Tenant:  A tenant, subtenant, lessee, sublessee, or any other person
entitled to use or occupancy of a rental unit. (Amended by Ord. No. 185,224,
Eff. 12/13/17.)



 



   C.   Relocation Assistance Required.  The landlord shall pay the
City a fee for the purpose of providing relocation assistance by the City's
Relocation Assistance Service Provider to each tenant in accordance with
Subsection D. of this section in connection with the demolition of a building
or its relocation to another site for either of the following purposes:  (1)
to construct a new condominium, community apartment or stock cooperative, as
those terms are defined in the California Government Code and Business and
Professions Code; or (2) to use the property for any commercial purpose. 
Where a landlord is required, pursuant to a condition of approval of a
subdivision map, to give a tenant a notice of intention to demolish, the
landlord's obligation to comply with this section does not exist prior to the
giving of that notice.  The fee shall be $640 for each unit occupied by a
qualified tenant and $400 for each unit occupied by other tenants, and an
additional $55 per unit to pay for the administrative costs associated with
this service.  The fees, set forth above, may be increased in an amount
based on the Consumer Price Index - All Urban Consumers averaged for the
first 12 month-period ending September 30, of each year, as determined and
published by the Housing and Community Investment Department on or before May
30, of each year, pursuant to Section 151.07 A.6. of this Code.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 182,718, Eff. 10/30/13.)



 



   D.   Relocation Assistance.  Relocation assistance, where required
by the preceding subsection, shall be provided in accordance with the
following provisions.



 



   1.   Landlord’s Responsibility.



 



   a.   (Amended by Ord. No. 178,632, Eff. 5/26/07.)  The landlord
shall pay a fee to the City so that a Relocation Assistance Service Provider
will:



 



   (1)   Make available to each tenant, at no cost, a reasonably
complete and current list of vacant and available rental which are comparable
as to size and amenities to the unit occupied by the tenant, and



 



   (2)   Make a reasonable and good faith effort to assure that tenants
without cars are driven, at no cost, and tenants with cars are assisted, in
order to inspect replacement rental units, and



 



   (3)   Hire an ambulance or similar vehicle, at no cost to the
tenant, and otherwise take reasonable steps to assist any disabled or
handicapped tenant with relocation-related activities.



 



   b.   (Amended by Ord. No. 178,632, Eff. 5/26/07.)  In order to
assist the tenants in meeting costs of relocation, higher rents for
replacement housing, and any related expenses, pay a relocation fee in the
following amounts.  If more than one fee applies to a rental unit, pay the
highest of the applicable fees:



 



   (1)   $14,850 to qualified tenants and a $6,810 fee to all other
tenants who have lived in their rental unit for fewer than three years, or



 



   (2)   $17,080 to qualified tenants and a $9,040 fee to all other
tenants who have lived in their rental unit for three years or longer, or



 



   (3)   $18,300 to qualified tenants and $9,650 to all other tenants
whose household income is 80 percent or below Area Median Income, as adjusted
for household size, as defined by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development regardless of length of tenancy.  Tenants who claim eligibility
pursuant to this Subparagraph shall file a statement with the Housing and
Community Investment Department verifying their income on a form prescribed
by the Housing and Community Investment Department.  Requests for a hearing
to appeal a decision regarding a tenant's relocation assistance, including
disputes about eligibility for higher relocation assistance based on a
tenant's income, age, length of tenancy, family status and/or disability
status, must be filed in writing on the form prescribed by the Housing and
Community Investment Department.  The Housing and Community Investment
Department shall charge the appellant a fee of $193 per rental unit to cover
the administrative costs of the hearing.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,718, Eff.
10/30/13.)



 



   (4)   The above listed relocation assistance fees will sunset on
July 1, 2008, unless the City Council acts by resolution to extend these
provisions.  If these provisions are not extended, the following provision
will become effective on July 1, 2008:



 



   $17,080 to qualified tenants and a $9,040 fee to all other tenants.



 



   For the year beginning July 1, 2008, and all subsequent years, the fee
amounts shall be adjusted on an annual basis pursuant to the formula set
forth in Section 151.06 D. of this Code.  The adjusted amount shall be
rounded to the nearest $50 increment.



 



   c.   (Added by Ord. No. 178,632, Eff. 5/26/07.)  The relocation fee
provided for in Paragraph b. above, shall be made as follows:



 



   (1)   The entire fee shall be paid to a tenant who is the only
tenant in a rental unit;



 



   (2)   If a rental unit is occupied by two or more tenants, then each
tenant of the unit shall be paid an equal, pro-rata share of the fee;



 



   In no event shall the landlord be liable to pay more than the maximum
relocation amounts set forth above to all tenants residing in a rental
unit.  If a tenant is entitled to monetary relocation benefits pursuant to
City administrative agency action or any provision of local, state or federal
law, then those benefits shall operate as a credit against any fee required
to be paid to the tenant under this section.



 



   2.   When Assistance Shall Be Provided.  (Amended by Ord. No.
178,632, Eff. 5/26/07.)



 



   a.   Payment for Relocation Assistance Service Provider.  The
landlord shall perform the acts described in Paragraph a. of Subdivision 1.
above on or before the service of either the notice described in California
Government Code Section 7060.2 (b), or the Notice of Termination, whichever
occurs first.



 



   b.   Monetary Assistance. The landlord shall provide the assistance
described in Paragraph b. of Subdivision 1. above within 15 days of service
of the Notice of Termination.



 



   E.   Monitoring Program.  A demolition permit shall not be issued
unless the Housing and Community Investment Department provides a written
clearance to the Department of Building and Safety stating that the landlord
has complied with the relocation assistance requirements of this section. 
The landlord shall provide proof of compliance with the relocation assistance
requirements of this section to the Housing and Community Investment
Department on a form provided by the Housing and Community Investment
Department.  The form shall be accompanied by a fee of $45 per unit. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 182,718, Eff. 10/30/13.)



 



   F.   Civil Remedies.  In an action by a landlord to recover
possession of a rental unit, a tenant may raise as an affirmative defense the
failure of the landlord to comply with Subsection D of this section. In
addition, any landlord who fails to provide monetary relocation assistance to
a tenant as required by this section shall be liable in a civil action to the
tenant to whom such assistance is due for damages in the amount the landlord
has failed to pay, together with reasonable attorney’s fees and costs as
determined by the court. (Amended by Ord. No. 155,397, Eff. 8/2/81;
Relettered by Ord. No. 178,632, Eff. 5/26/07.)



 



   G.   Applicability.  (Relettered and Amended by Ord. No. 178,632,
Eff. 5/26/07.)  This section shall not apply in any of the following
circumstances:



 



   1.   The building is constructed of unreinforced masonry
construction and was built pursuant to a building permit issued prior to
October 1, 1933.



 



   2.   The building is to be demolished pursuant to a demolition order
issued by the Department of Building and Safety under the authority set forth
in Division 89 of Chapter IX of this Code.



 



   3.   The building is to be demolished or relocated pursuant to a
plan to construct on that property housing for low to moderate income
households, which housing is to be developed, constructed, or acquired with
federal, state or local government financial assistance.



 



 



SEC. 47.08.  TENANT RELOCATION ASSISTANCE WHERE MOBILEHOME PARKS ARE CHANGED
TO A DIFFERENT USE.



   (Added by Ord. No. 153,568, Eff. 5/5/80.)



 



   A.   Statement of Purposes.  The provisions of this section are
intended to provide relocation assistance to tenants of mobilehome parks
facing eviction due to the owner’s intent to convert the mobilehome park to
another use.



 



   B.   Definitions.  (Amended by Ord. No. 162,743, Eff. 9/24/87.) 
For the purposes of this section, the definitions in Section 12.03 of this
Code, in Article 1 of the California Mobilehome Residency Law (California
Civil Code, Section 798, et seq.), and the following definitions shall apply:



 



   Notice to Quit:  In the case of a tenant, the Notice required by
Section 798.55(b) of the California Civil Code. In the case of non-tenant
resident, the notice required by an applicable provision of law.



 



   Qualified Resident:  Any resident, as that term is used in California
Civil Code Section 798.11, who satisfies any of the following criteria on the
date said resident receives a Notice to Quit as defined above:  has attained
age 62; is handicapped as defined in Section 50072 of the California Health
and Safety Code; is disabled as defined in Title 42 United States Code 423;
or is a person residing with and on whom is legally dependent (as determined
for federal income tax purposes) one or more minor children.



 



   Relocation Assistance Service Provider:  A company that specializes in
relocation assistance and has a contract with the City for the delivery of
those services.  (Added by Ord. No. 180,071, Eff. 8/30/08.)



 



   Rental Unit:  All dwelling units, efficiency dwelling units, guest
rooms, and suites, as defined in Section 12.03 of this Code; all housing
accommodations as defined in Government Code Section 12927; duplexes and
condominiums in the City of Los Angeles, rented or offered for rent for
living or dwelling purposes; the land and buildings appurtenant to these; and
all housing services, privileges, furnishings and facilities supplied in
connection with their use or occupancy, including garage and parking
facilities.  This term shall also include mobilehomes, whether rent is paid
for the mobilehome and the land upon which the mobilehome is located, or rent
is paid for the land alone.  Further it shall include recreational vehicles,
as defined in California Civil Code Section 799.24 if located in a mobilehome
park or recreational vehicle park, whether rent is paid for the recreational
vehicle and the land upon which it is located, or rent is paid for the land
alone.  (Added by Ord. No. 180,071, Eff. 8/30/08.)



 



   Tenant:  A homeowner, as defined in California Civil Code Section
798.9.



 



   Qualified Tenant:  Any tenant who satisfies any of the following
criteria on the date said tenant receives a Notice to Quit as defined above:
has attained age 62; is handicapped as defined in Section 50072 of the
California Health and Safely Code; is disabled as defined in Title 42 United
States Code 423; or is a person residing with and on whom is legally
dependent (as determined for federal income tax purposes) one or more minor
children.



 



   C.   Relocation Assistance Required.  (Amended by Ord. No. 180,071,
Eff. 8/30/08.)



 



   1.   The management of a mobilehome park shall provide relocation
assistance in connection with the change of use, as defined in Civil Code
Section 798.10, of the mobilehome park, or any portion of the park.



 



   2.   Exception.  This section shall not apply where:  (1) the
change of use results from the City's refusal to extend a conditional use
permit, or similar permit, upon good faith request of the management for the
extension; (2) the California Department of Housing suspends or revokes a
permit pursuant to Health and Safety Code Section 18510; or (3) the tenant or
resident, as the case may be, received actual written notice from management,
prior to entering into an oral or written agreement to become a resident or
tenant, that an application to convert the mobilehome park to another use was
on file with the City or had already been approved, whichever the case may be.



 



   3.   Management shall pay the City a fee for the purpose of
providing relocation assistance by the City's Relocation Assistance Service
Provider to each tenant in accordance with Subsection D. of this section. 
The fee shall be $640 for each unit occupied by a qualified tenant and $400
for each unit occupied by other tenants, and an additional $55 per unit
administrative fee to pay for the administrative costs associated with this
service.  The fees, set forth above, may be increased in an amount based on
the Consumer Price Index - All Urban Consumers averaged for the first
12-month period ending September 30, of each year, as determined and
published by the Housing and Community Investment Department on or before May
30, of each year, pursuant to Section 151.07 A.6. of this Code.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 182,718, Eff. 10/30/13.)



 



   D.   Manner of Providing Relocation Assistance.  Relocation
assistance, where required by the preceding subsection, shall be provided in
accordance with the following provisions.



 



   1.   Management's Responsibility.  (Amended by Ord. No. 180,071,
Eff. 8/30/08.)



 



   a.   Management shall pay a fee to the City so that a Relocation
Assistance Service Provider will:



 



   (1)   Make available to each tenant, at no cost, a reasonably
complete and current list of vacant and available rental units, which are
comparable as to size and amenities to the unit occupied by the tenant, and



 



   (2)   Make a reasonable and good faith effort to assure that tenants
without cars are driven, at no cost, and tenants with cars are assisted, in
order to inspect replacement rental units, and



 



   (3)   Hire an ambulance or similar vehicle, at no cost to the
tenant, and otherwise take reasonable steps to assist any disabled or
handicapped tenant with relocation-related activities.



 



   b.   In order to assist the tenants in meeting costs of relocation,
higher rents for replacement housing, and any related expenses, pay a
relocation fee in the following amounts.  If more than one fee applies to a
rental unit, pay the highest of the applicable fees:



 



   (1)   $15,300 to qualified tenants and a $7,000 fee to all other
tenants who have lived in their rental unit for fewer than three years; or



 



   (2)   $17,600 to qualified tenants and a $9,300 fee to all other
tenants who have lived in their rental unit for three years or longer; or



 



   (3)   $17,600 to qualified tenants and $9,300 to all other tenants
whose household income is 80 percent or below Area Median Income (AMI), as
adjusted for household size, as defined by the U.S. Department of Housing and
Urban Development regardless of length of tenancy.  Tenants who claim
eligibility pursuant to this subparagraph shall file a statement with the
Housing and Community Investment Department verifying their income on a form
prescribed by the Housing and Community Investment Department.  The Housing
and Community Investment Department shall charge a fee of $186 per rental
unit to resolve any disputes regarding tenant income eligibility.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 182,718, Eff. 10/30/13.)



 



   For the year beginning July 1, 2009, and all subsequent years, the fee
amounts shall be adjusted on an annual basis pursuant to the formula set
forth in Section 151.06 D. of this Code.  The adjusted amount shall be
rounded to the nearest $50 increment.



 



   c.   The relocation fee provided for in Paragraph b. above, shall be
made as follows:



 



   (1)   The entire fee shall be paid to a tenant who is the only
tenant in a rental unit; and



 



   (2)   If a rental unit is occupied by two or more tenants, then each
tenant of the unit shall be paid an equal, pro-rata share of the fee.



 



   In no event shall the landlord be liable to pay more than the maximum
relocation amounts set forth above to all tenants residing in a rental
unit.  If a tenant is entitled to monetary relocation benefits pursuant to
City administrative agency action or any provision of local, state or federal
law, then those benefits shall operate as a credit against any fee required
to be paid to the tenant under this section.



 



   2.   When Assistance Shall Be Provided.  (Amended by Ord. No.
180,071, Eff. 8/30/08.)



 



   a.   Payment for Relocation Assistance Service Provider. 
Management shall perform the acts described in Paragraph a. of Subdivision 1.
above on or before the service of the Notice to Quit.



 



   b.   Monetary Assistance.  Management shall perform the acts
described in Paragraph b. of Subdivision 1. above within 15 days of service
of the Notice to Quit.



 



   E.   Affirmative Defense.  In an action by management to recover
possession of a space occupied by a mobilehome or to recover possession of a
mobilehome, as the case may be, the defendant may raise as an affirmative
defense the failure of management to provide relocation assistance as
required by this section.



 



   F.   (Repealed by Ord. No. 180,071, Eff. 8/30/08.)



 



   G.   Notification to City. (Added by Ord. No. 154,073, Eff. 7/28/80.)



 



   1.   The management shall serve, by personal service or by United
States Mail, written notice on the Superintendent of Building of the proposed
termination of mobilehome park use, accompanied by such information and in a
form designated for such purpose by the Superintendent. Upon publication of
this subsection in the newspaper, the Superintendent shall forthwith notify
the management of all mobilehome parks within the City limits of the
requirements of this subsection.



 



   a.   Where the Notice to Quit is served on or after the effective
date of this subsection, the notice to the Superintendent shall be served on
or before the 30th day prior to the expiration of one period stated in the
Notice to Quit.  (Amended by Ord. No. 157,153*, Eff. 10/15/82.)



 



   b.   Where the Notice to Quit is served prior to the effective date
of this subsection, the notice to the Superintendent shall be served on or
before the 10th day prior to the expiration of the period stated in the
Notice to Quit.



 



   2.   The notice referred to in Subdivision 1 above shall be
accompanied by a statement that the management has provided all relocation
assistance required by law, accompanied with proof of such assistance in the
form of notarized signed acknowledgments from the recipients thereof or a
notarized sign waiver of assistance.  (Amended by Ord. No. 157,153*, Eff.
10/15/82.)



 



   3.   If management fails to substantially comply with this
Subsection G, as determined by the Superintendent of Building, the
Superintendent shall forthwith notify the Director of Planning and all other
appropriate City departments and officials of such noncompliance. These
departments and officials shall not issue, grant or approve any application
or request for any permit, license or other entitlement of use (including but
not limited to a building permit, conditional use permit, zone change,
variance, certificate of occupancy, tract or parcel map) for any change of
use. (Amended by Ord. No. 157,153, Eff. 10/15/82.)



 



   4.   This Subsection G shall apply only to those mobilehome parks at
which resides a tenant or a resident who is subject to a Notice to Quit which
specifies a period which terminates on or after July 1, 1980. The requirement
of notarized signed acknowledgments set forth in Subdivision 2 above shall
not apply as to any recipient of relocation assistance who vacated the
mobilehome park prior to July 27, 1980. (Amended by Ord. No. 162,743, Eff.
9/24/87.)



 



   * The amendments to Section 47.08 of this Code set forth in this
ordinance shall apply to any action to recover possession of a rental unit
which has not become final as of the effective date of this ordinance.



 



 



SEC. 47.09.  MOBILEHOME PARK CLOSURE IMPACT REPORT.



   (Added by Ord. No. 165,229, Eff. 11/13/89.)



 



   A.   Statement of Purpose.  The purpose of this section is to
require persons who propose to convert, close or cease the use of a
mobilehome park to address the impact on the residents to be displaced, and
to take steps to mitigate the adverse impacts on the residents.



 



   B.   Definitions.  For purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply:



 



   1.   Management.  The owner of a mobilehome park or an agent or
representative authorized to act on the owner’s behalf in connection with
matters relating to a tenancy in the park, including any person who proposes
to convert, close or cease the use of a park, or the successor in interest of
such person.



 



   2.   Mobilehome.  A structure designed for human habitation and for
being moved on a street or highway under permit pursuant to Section 35790 of
the Vehicle Code. Mobilehome includes a manufactured home, as defined in
Section 18007 of the Health and Safety Code, and a mobilehome, as defined in
Section 18008 of the Health and Safety Code. Mobilehome includes a
recreational vehicle, as defined in Section 799.24 of the Civil Code and
Section 18010 of the Health and Safety Code, if located in a mobilehome park
and continuously occupied by a resident, for nine or more months. Mobilehome
does not include a commercial coach as defined in Section 18001.8 of the
Health and Safety Code.



 



   3.   Mobilehome Park.  An area of land where two or more mobilehome
sites are rented, or held out for rent, to accommodate mobilehomes used for
human habitation.



 



   4.   Resident.  A homeowner or other person who lawfully occupies a
mobilehome.



 



   C.   General Requirements.



 



   1.   Prior to the conversion of a mobilehome park to another use or
closure of a mobilehome park or cessation of use of the land as a mobilehome
park, management shall file with the Advisory Agency of the City of Los
Angeles, a report on the impact of the conversion, closure, or cessation of
use (hereinafter “closure”) upon the residents of the mobilehome park who
will be displaced.



 



   EXCEPTION:



 



   This section of the Los Angeles Municipal Code shall not apply to a
conversion of a mobilehome park pursuant to the Subdivision Map Act (Division
2 [commencing with Section 66410] of Title 7 of the California Government
Code).



 



   2.   No person shall cause or permit the closure of a mobilehome
park until the impact report has been approved by the Advisory Agency, or the
City Council upon request for hearing.



 



   D.   Procedures.



 



   1.   Time for Filing Impact Report.



 



   (a)   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.) If the proposed
closure of the park requires a discretionary local governmental permit or
approval for which a hearing is required by law, including but not limited to
a change of zone, height district change, exception from a specific plan,
conditional use, variance, or coastal development permit, then the impact
report shall not be filed until the discretionary approval has been obtained.



 



   The impact report shall be filed with the Advisory Agency and served on
each resident of the mobilehome park concurrently with service of the six
months’ notice described in Section 798.56(f)(2) of the California Civil
Code.



 



   (b)   If the proposed closure of the mobilehome park does not
require any of the discretionary approvals described in Paragraph (a) above,
then the impact report shall be filed with the Advisory Agency and served on
each resident of the mobilehome park concurrently with service of the twelve
months’ notice described in Section 798.56(f)(2) of the California Civil
Code.



 



   EXCEPTION:



 



   If either the six months’ notice or the twelve months’ notice has
been served on the residents of the mobilehome park prior to the effective
date of this section, then, within ninety (90) days of the effective date of
this section, the impact report shall be served on all current residents and
on all residents who have left the mobilehome park since those notices were
given, and filed with the Advisory Agency.



 



   (c)   Proof of service of the impact report on the residents of the
mobilehome park must be provided to the Advisory Agency at the time of filing
the impact report.



 



   2.   Impact Report Contents.  The impact report shall address the
availability of adequate replacement housing in other mobilehome parks and
relocation costs for each resident of the mobilehome park. It shall specify
the steps to be taken by management to mitigate any adverse impact of the
proposed closure on the residents who will be displaced.



 



   The impact report shall provide that any dispute regarding the rights
of management or a resident under the impact report shall be heard and
resolved by the Advisory Agency, under such rules as it shall adopt, when
application for such review is made by management or any resident.



 



   In addition, the impact report shall contain such information as the
Advisory Agency shall deem necessary, as set forth in regulations promulgated
by the Advisory Agency pursuant to this section.



 



   3.   Hearing and Notice. Upon the receipt of an impact report, the
Advisory Agency shall examine the same and advise management whether it is
complete, within fifteen (15) days after receipt thereof. When a complete
impact report has been filed, it shall be accepted by the Advisory Agency,
and the Advisory Agency shall set a time, date and place for a hearing, not
less than fifteen (15) days and no later than forty-five (45) days after the
date of acceptance. At least fifteen days prior to the hearing, the Advisory
Agency shall mail notice to management and the residents of the date, time
and place of the hearing. The notice of hearing shall contain a general
explanation of the matters to be considered by the Advisory Agency. The
Advisory Agency may give such additional notice as it deems necessary or
desirable.



 



   4.   Findings and Decision. After conclusion of the hearing, the
Advisory Agency shall render its decision. The Advisory Agency shall approve,
conditionally approve or disapprove the impact report. The Advisory Agency
shall approve the impact report if it finds: (a) that the impact report
contains the information required; and (b) that reasonable steps have been or
will be taken to mitigate the adverse impacts of the closure on each of the
residents. In approving the impact report, the Advisory Agency may impose
such conditions as it finds necessary to mitigate the adverse impacts on the
residents; however, any steps required to be taken by management pursuant to
this section shall not exceed the reasonable costs of relocation. At a
minimum, the Advisory Agency shall require management to comply with Section
47.08 of this Code. Notice of the Advisory Agency action shall be mailed to
management, to all residents and to all persons who have filed written
request therefor.



 



   Nothing in this section shall prevent any other governmental agency or
decision making body of the City of Los Angeles from imposing a condition
relating to relocation assistance on any discretionary approval involving the
mobilehome park.



 



   5.   Request for Council Hearing.  Management, any resident, or any
officer, board, department or bureau of the City may request, and shall have
the right to, a hearing before the City Council on the sufficiency of the
impact report. The request shall be filed in duplicate, in a public office of
the Department of City Planning on forms provided for that purpose within ten
days after the action of the Advisory Agency. Such requests shall not be
considered as having been filed unless and until the form has been properly
completed and all information required by it has been submitted. The
completed request form and file shall then immediately be transmitted to the
City Clerk for hearing before the City Council.



 



   The City Clerk shall set a time and date for a hearing, not less than
fifteen (15) days and not later than forty-five (45) days after the filing
date and shall mail written notice of such hearing to the management, all
residents, the person requesting the hearing, the Advisory Agency, and all
persons who have filed written request therefor, at least fifteen days prior
to the hearing.



 



   The City Council, shall, upon conclusion of the hearing, within seven
days, declare its findings based upon the testimony and documents produced
before it or before the Advisory Agency.



 



   For all requests for hearing, the City Council may sustain, modify,
reject or overrule any recommendations or rulings of the Advisory Agency and
may make such findings as are not inconsistent with the provisions of this
section.



 



   6.   Extensions.  Any of the time limits specified in this section
may be extended by mutual consent of management and the Advisory Agency, or
the City Council, on requests for hearing.



 



   E.   Expiration and Extension of Impact Report.  The approval of an
impact report shall become null and void after 36 months from the date of the
mailing of the final approval of the impact report. Thereafter, management
shall not convert, close or cease the use of the park until such time as a
new impact report is approved. However, upon application of the management,
filed with the Advisory Agency on or before the date of expiration, the
impact report may be extended by the Advisory Agency up to an additional 36
months. An application for an extension shall be subject to the notice and
hearing procedures described in Subdivision 3 of Subsection D of this section.



 



   F.   Revocation and Amendment.  Any time prior to the closure of
the mobilehome park, the Advisory Agency may, in its discretion, and upon
good cause shown, initiate proceedings for the revocation or amendment of an
impact report. Good cause may include, but is not limited to, change of
circumstances which render the conditions or requirements of the impact
report no longer necessary or appropriate, negligent or fraudulent
misrepresentation of fact relating to the impact report, or noncompliance
with the conditions of the impact report. Prior to revoking or amending an
impact report, the Advisory Agency shall conduct a hearing in accordance with
the procedures set forth in Subdivision 3 of Subsection D of this section.
Upon revocation, management shall not convert, close or cease the use of the
park until such time as a new impact report is approved. Such revocation or
amendment is subject to the same request for hearing as is provided in
Subdivision 5 of Subsection D of this section.



 



   G.   Evictions Pending Compliance with Impact Report.  Termination
of a tenancy of any resident pursuant to California Civil Code Section 798.56
or any other provision of law shall not relieve management of its obligation
to comply with the conditions or requirements of the impact report applicable
to that resident. However, if the termination of tenancy is based on
Subdivisions (a), (b), (c), (d) or (e) of Section 798.56 of the California
Civil Code, the Advisory Agency, upon request by management, may grant to
management extensions of time within which to comply with the conditions of
the impact report.



 



   H.   Additional Authority of the Advisory Agency.  If,
notwithstanding the fact that management has not served a six months’ or
twelve months’ notice on the residents, the Advisory Agency finds that
management is attempting to close or convert a park, then the Advisory Agency
shall require the filing of an impact report.



 



   I.   EXCEPTIONS.  If the U.S. Bankruptcy Court issues an order
requiring closure of the mobilehome park, as part of a valid bankruptcy
proceeding, then the provisions of this section shall not be applicable.



 



   J.   Remedies.



 



   1.   The failure of management to comply with this section or with
any condition of the impact report shall be a defense in any action to
terminate tenancy under Subdivision (f) of Section 798.56 of the California
Civil Code.



 



   2.   Violation of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor. In
addition, the violation of any valid condition of an impact report imposed by
the Advisory Agency pursuant to this section shall constitute a misdemeanor.



 



   K.   Effective Date.  The provisions of this section shall apply to
any eviction proceeding that has not yet been reduced to final judgment.
Accordingly, any affirmative defenses to an unlawful detainer proceeding
created or modified by this section shall apply to any such proceeding not
reduced to final judgment as of the effective date of this section.



 



 



SEC. 47.10.  LANDLORDS – NONPAYMENT OF UTILITY BILLS.



   (Added By Ord. No. 162,975, Eff. 11/28/87.)



 



   (a)   Declaration of Purpose.  The City Council of the City of Los
Angeles hereby finds that the providing of essential public utilities to
residential real property is necessary to the health and welfare of the
occupants of residential rental property and that the nonpayment of utility
bills by landlords constitutes a threat to the health and safety of occupants
of master-metered multiple-family dwellings. The City Council of the City of
Los Angeles also finds that the policy of the Department of Water and Power
provides that if a customer is receiving service at more than one location,
service at any or all locations may be discontinued if bills for service at
any one or more locations are not paid, and the City Council of the City of
Los Angeles declares that this policy is reasonable to assure that water and
electrical utilities can be provided to all residents of the City of Los
Angeles at a reasonable cost. The City Council of the City of Los Angeles
further finds that the failure to provide either water or electricity, or
both, to the occupants of residential units is a breach of the implied
warranty of habitability and constitutes a fraud upon the tenants of said
dwellings. Therefore, it is necessary and reasonable to safeguard tenants
from threats to their health and safety by the termination of essential
public utilities due to the nonpayment of utility bills by the owners of
master-metered multiple-family dwellings.



 



   (b)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this section, the following
words and phrases are defined and shall be construed as hereinafter set forth:



 



   1.   “LANDLORD”  means an owner, lessor or sublessor (including
any person, firm, corporation, partnership or other entity) of a
multiple-family dwelling or the applicant on record with the Department of
Water and Power for water or electric service.



 



   2.   “UTILITY BILLS”  mean bills issued by the Department of
Water and Power for the furnishing of water or electricity.



 



   3.   “THE DEPARTMENT”  means the Department of Water and Power
of the City of Los Angeles.



 



   4.   “MASTER-METERED DWELLING”  means any residential building
in which for billing purposes one water or one electric meter services a
group of otherwise unmetered dwelling units or a group of subordinate meters.



 



   5.   “MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING”  means any residential building
which contains two (2) or more dwelling units, efficiency dwelling units,
guest rooms or suites as defined in Section 12.03 of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code.



 



   (c)   Scope.  This section shall apply to all existing
master-metered multiple-family dwellings when the nonpayment of utility bills
had resulted in the service upon the landlord of a notice of termination for
a master-metered multiple-family dwelling pursuant to this section.



 



   (d)   Notice.  The Department, prior to initiation of criminal
proceedings, shall serve personally or by mail in a final notice to the
landlord a demand for payment of the outstanding bill and 2 fifteen-day (15)
notice of utility termination. Said notice shall include the address at which
service is to be terminated in the event of nonpayment and shall also, in
bold-face type, notify the landlord that failure to pay said utility bill by
the date so stated in said notice constitutes a misdemeanor.



 



   (e)   Violation.  Any landlord who, having the ability to pay,
willfully refuses to pay utility bills due and payable after demand has been
made and written notice of utility termination has been served, is guilty of
a misdemeanor.



 



 



SEC. 47.11.  DISPLAY OF AEROSOL SPRAY PAINT CONTAINERS AND MARKER PENS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 166,399, Eff. 12/22/90.)



 



   Every person who owns, conducts, operates or manages a retail
commercial establishment selling aerosol containers, or marker pens with tips
exceeding four millimeters in width, containing anything other than a
solution which can be removed with water after it dries, shall store or cause
such aerosol containers or marker pens to be stored in an area viewable by,
but not accessible to the public in the regular course of business without
employee assistance, pending legal sale or disposition of such marker pens or
paint containers.



 



 



SEC. 47.12.  EXCESSIVE PRICE INCREASES DURING STATE OF EMERGENCY.



   (Added by Ord. No. 168, 230, Eff. 10/11/92.)



 



   (a)   Findings.  As a result of the civil disturbance that
commenced on April 29, 1992, consumers have sought to purchase emergency
supplies, food and other consumer goods necessary for their health and
safety.  Though no general shortage of consumer goods is evident, numerous
residents have reported cases of excessive price increases for consumer items
such as gasoline and food items many times above the prices in effect on or
before April 29, 1992.  Though price increases may be necessary where a
merchant has incurred higher expenses, the reported price increases clearly
exceed those that would be reasonable and just to recapture any increased
operational expenses.



 



   (b)   Legislative Intent.  It is the intention of the City Council
in adopting this ordinance to protect citizens from excessive and unjustified
increases in the prices charged during any abnormal disruption of the
marketplace for consumer goods and services vital and necessary for the
health, safety and welfare of consumers resulting from emergency or major
disaster for which a state of emergency for the City of Los Angeles is
proclaimed by the Mayor pursuant to Section 8.27 of the Los Angeles
Administrative Code or for which a local disaster or emergency is declared by
the President of the United Sates or the Governor of California.



 



   (c)   Excessive Price Increases Prohibited.  Upon proclamation of
public emergency involving or threatening the lives, property or welfare of
the citizens, pursuant to Section 8.27 of the Los Angeles Administrative Code
or for which a local disaster or emergency is declared by the President of
the United States or Governor of California and for a period of thirty days
from the date such declaration is terminated, it shall be unlawful for any
person, contractor, business or other entity to sell or offer to sell any
consumer food items, repair or reconstruction services, emergency or medical
supplies or gasoline for an amount which exceeds ten percent of the price
charged by such person, contractor, business or other entity for said goods
or services immediately prior to the proclamation of emergency, unless said
person, business, contractor or other entity can prove that an increase in
price was directly attributable to additional costs imposed on it by the
supplier of the goods or for labor and materials used to provide the service.



 



   (d)   Definitions.  For purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply:



 



   1.   A consumer food item is any article which is used or intended
for use for food, drink, confection or condiment by man or other animal.



 



   2.   Repair or reconstruction services are those contractor services
for repairs to residential and commercial property of any type which are
damaged as a result of a disaster.  Contractor services are services as
defined by sections 7025, 7026, 7026.1 and 7026.3 of the California Business
and Professions Code.



 



   3.   Emergency supplies shall include but are not limited to water,
flashlights, radios, batteries, candles, blankets, soaps, and diapers.



 



   4.   Medical supplies shall include but are not limited to
prescription and non-prescription drugs, bandages, gauzes, and isopropyl
alcohol.



 



   (e)   Hearing.  If there is reasonable cause to believe that a
person has violated the provisions of this section, the City Attorney shall,
prior to the filing of a criminal complaint, conduct a hearing upon due
notice and an opportunity to be heard.  At the conclusion of such hearing,
the City Attorney may, in his discretion, file a criminal complaint.  The
City Attorney may, for good cause, disperse with the requirement of
conducting a hearing prior to the filing of a criminal complaint.



 



   (f)   Penalty.



 



   1.   Any person who shall be convicted of violating the provisions
of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall be punished by a fine of not less than $1,000 or by imprisonment in the
County Jail for not more than six months, or by both such fine and
imprisonment.  Any person believing that a violation of said section has
been committed may file a complaint with the City Attorney.



 



   2.   The City Attorney or any citizen may prosecute a civil action
under applicable state law to enforce this section and in any action a civil
penalty may be imposed as provided by law and where appropriate, restitution
to aggrieved consumers ordered.



 



 



SEC. 47.13.  INSERTION OF WRITINGS INTO CONTAINERS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 170,870, Eff. 2/24/96.)



 



   No person shall place or insert any writing in or on any box, package
or other container containing a consumer product offered for sale unless
permitted to do so by the owner, manager or person in charge or control of
the premises where the product is stored or offered for sale.  The term
“writing” shall mean any form of representation or communication,
including letters, words or pictorial representations, and shall include
handbills, notices or any form of advertising.



 



 



SEC. 47.14.  SELF SERVICE DISPLAY OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 182,823, Eff. 1/22/14.)



 



   (a)   Definitions.  For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply:



 



   1.   "Person" shall mean any natural person, partnership,
cooperative association, domestic or foreign corporation, receiver, trustee,
assignee, or any other legal entity.



 



   2.   "Tobacco product" shall mean any substance containing tobacco
leaf, including but not limited to cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco, snuff,
chewing tobacco, dipping tobacco, bidis or beedies, hookah tobacco or any
other preparation of tobacco.  "Tobacco product" shall also include any
product or formulation of matter containing nicotine derived from tobacco, or
synthetic nicotine, that is manufactured, sold, offered for sale, or
otherwise distributed with the expectation that the product or matter will be
introduced into the human body.  "Tobacco product" does not include any
cessation product specifically approved by the United States Food and Drug
Administration for use in treating nicotine or tobacco dependence.



 



   3.   "Tobacco retailer" shall mean any person who sells, offers for
sale, or does or offers to exchange for any form of consideration, tobacco,
tobacco products or tobacco paraphernalia.  "Tobacco retailing" shall mean
engaging in any of the above.  These definitions are without regard to the
quantity of tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco paraphernalia sold, offered
for sale, exchanged, or offered for exchange.



 



   4.   "Vendor-assisted sale" shall mean a sale requiring a direct,
face-to-face exchange between the tobacco retailer and the customer, in which
the tobacco retailer or the tobacco retailer's employee has access to the
tobacco product, and assists the customer by supplying the product.  The
customer does not take possession of the product until it is purchased.



 



   5.   "Self-service display" shall mean the open display of tobacco
products to which the public has access without the intervention or
assistance of a store employee, including but not limited to a rack, shelf,
or counter-top display.



 



   6.   "Cigar lounge" shall mean a private smokers' lounge of an
enclosed area in or attached to a retail or wholesale tobacco shop that is
dedicated to the use of tobacco products.



 



   7.   "Tobacco shop" shall mean a business establishment whose main
or principal purpose is the sale of tobacco products, including but not
limited to, cigars, pipe tobacco, and smoking accessories.



 



   (b)   Prohibition.  No person or tobacco retailer shall sell,
permit to be sold, or offer for sale any tobacco product by means of a
self-service display, or by any means other than vendor-assisted sales. 
This prohibition shall not apply to tobacco shops or cigar lounges.



 



 



SEC. 47.15.  SPECTATORS PROHIBITED AT SPEED CONTESTS AND EXHIBITIONS OF
SPEED.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 174,891, Eff. 12/1/02.)



 



   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to:



 



   1.   Be knowingly present as a spectator at any illegal motor
vehicle speed contest or exhibition of speed conducted on a public street or
highway; or



 



   2.   Be knowingly present as a spectator where preparations are
being made for any illegal motor vehicle speed contest or exhibition of speed
conducted on a public street or highway.



 



   B.   For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall
apply:



 



   1.   “Illegal motor vehicle speed contest or exhibition of
speed” shall mean any speed contest or exhibition of speed referred to in
California Vehicle Code Sections 23109(a) and 23109(c)).



 



   2.   “Spectator” shall mean any person who is present at an
illegal motor vehicle speed contest or exhibition of speed for the purpose of
viewing, observing, watching, or witnessing the event as it progresses.  A
“spectator” includes any person at the location of the event without
regard to the means by which the person arrived.



 



   3.   A person is “present” at the illegal motor vehicle speed
contest or exhibition of speed if that person is within 150 feet of the
location of the event, or within 150 feet where preparations are being made
for the event.



 



   4.   “Preparations” means any of the following acts done for the
purpose of a motor vehicle speed contest or exhibition of speed:



 



   (a)   A group of motor vehicles and persons has arrived at a
predetermined location;



 



   (b)   A group of individuals has lined one or both sides of a public
street or highway;



 



   (c)   One or more persons have impeded the free public use of a
public street or highway by actions, words or physical barrier for the
purpose of conducting the event;



 



   (d)   Two or more vehicles have lined up with motors running for an
illegal motor vehicle speed contest or exhibition of speed;



 



   (e)   One or more drivers is racing his engine or spinning his tires
in preparation for the event;



 



   (f)   An individual is stationed near one or more motor vehicles as
a race starter.



 



   C.   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, to prove a
violation of this section, admissible evidence may include, but is not
limited to, any of the following:



 



   1.   That the person charged has previously participated in an
illegal speed contest or speed exhibition;



 



   2.   That the person charged has previously aided and abetted an
illegal speed contest or speed exhibition;



 



   3.   That the person charged has previously attended an illegal
speed contest or speed exhibition;



 



   4.   That the person charged was previously present at a location
where preparations were being made for an illegal speed contest or exhibition
of speed or where a speed exhibition or speed contest was in progress;



 



   5.   Evidence of these prior acts may be admissible to show the
propensity of the defendant to be present or attend a speed contest or speed
exhibition if the prior act or acts occurred within three years of the
presently charged offense.  These prior acts may always be admissible to
show knowledge on the part of the defendant that a speed contest was taking
place. 



 



   D.   A violation of this ordinance shall constitute a misdemeanor,
punishable by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00, or by imprisonment not to
exceed six months, or both.



 



 



SEC. 47.16.  DISPLAY AND SALE OF GLASS ETCHING PRODUCTS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 174,361, Eff. 1/13/02.)



 



   (a)   Every person who owns, conducts, operates or manages a retail
commercial establishment selling glass etching cream, or any commercially
available glass etching product, whether sold separately or in a kit, shall
store or cause to be stored such glass etching cream or glass etching product
under lock and key in an area viewable by, but not accessible to the public
in the regular course of business without employee assistance, pending legal
sale or disposition of such glass etching cream or  glass etching product.



 



   (b)   No person who owns, conducts, operates or manages a retail
commercial establishment selling glass etching cream or any commercially
available glass etching product, whether sold separately or in a kit, shall 
sell or caused to be sold any such glass etching cream or glass etching
product to any person who has not yet attained the age of 18 years.



 



 



SEC. 47.17.  SALE OF MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLES AND MOTORIZED BICYCLES.



   (Added by Ord. No. 176,581, Eff. 5/22/05, Oper. 6/1/05.)



 



   (a)   As used in this section, the term "motor-driven cycle" shall
mean any motor-driven cycle, as that term is defined in the California
Vehicle Code, that is sold without the seventeen digit vehicle identification
number required for registration by the State of California.



 



   (b)   As used in this section, the term "motorized bicycle" shall
mean any motorized bicycle, as that term is defined in the California Vehicle
Code, that is sold without all of the equipment required by the State of
California for operation on a highway in California.



 



   (c)   As used in this section, the term "person" shall mean any
business or any individual acting on behalf of any business, as that term is
defined in Section 21.00(h) of this Code.



 



   (d)   No person shall sell or transfer ownership of any motor-driven
cycle or motorized bicycle without providing to the prospective purchaser or
transferee, prior to the sale or transfer of ownership, written notice, as
provided by this section, indicating in substance that the vehicle may not be
appropriate for operation on a public street or highway in California and
that operation of any vehicle on a public street or highway in California
must be in accordance with California law.  A notice shall be sufficient if
it indicates in substance that the vehicle is not intended for operation on a
public street or highway.



 



   (e)   The notice required by this section shall be provided by a
sign, printed in boldface type at least one inch in height, posted in a
conspicuous location on the seller's or transferor's property and containing
no information other than the notice; and by at least one of the following:



 



      (1)   A decal affixed to a conspicuous location on the frame
of the vehicle, printed in at least 14-point boldface type;



 



      (2)   A decal affixed to a conspicuous location on the frame
of the vehicle, which decal was in use by the seller or transferor for the
same make and model of vehicle prior to the enactment of this section.



 



   (f)   Any violation of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor.



 



 



SEC. 47.50.  NARCOTICS, VIOLENT CRIME, UNLAWFUL WEAPON OR AMMUNITION CRIME,
AND GANG-RELATED CRIME EVICTION PROGRAM.




(Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 180,449, Eff. 2/5/09.)




 



   A.   For the purposes of this section, the definitions in Section
12.03 of this Code and the following definitions shall apply:



 



   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE.  A drug, substance, or immediate precursor, as
listed in the Uniform Controlled Substances Act, Health and Safety Code
Section 11000, et. seq.



 



   DRUG-RELATED NUISANCE.  Any activity related to the possession, sale,
use or manufacturing of a controlled substance that creates an unreasonable
interference with the comfortable enjoyment of life, property or safety of
other residents of the premises or within a 1000 foot radius from the
boundary line of the premises.  These activities include, but are not
limited to, any activity commonly associated with illegal drug dealing, such
as noise, steady traffic day and night to a particular unit, barricaded
units, possession of weapons, or drug loitering as defined in Health and
Safety Code Section 11532, or other drug-related activities.



 



   GANG-RELATED CRIME.  Any crime motivated by gang membership in which
the perpetrator, victim or intended victim is a known member of a gang.



 



   VIOLENT CRIME.  Any crime involving use of a gun, a deadly weapon or
serious bodily injury and for which a police report has been completed.  A
violent crime under this section shall not include a crime that is committed
against a person residing in the same rental unit as the person committing
the crime.



 



   THREAT OF VIOLENT CRIME.  Any statement made by a tenant, or at his or
her request, by his or her agent to any person who is on the premises or to
the owner of the premises, or his or her agent, threatening commission of a
crime which will result in death or great bodily injury to another person,
with the specific intent that the statement is to be taken as a threat, even
if there is no intent of actually carrying it out, when on its face and under
the circumstances in which it is made, it is so unequivocal, immediate and
specific as to convey to the person threatened, a gravity of purpose and an
immediate prospect of execution of the threat, and thereby causes that person
reasonably to be in sustained fear for his or her own safety or for his or
her immediate family's safety.  Such a threat includes any statement made
verbally, in writing, or by means of an electronic communication device and
regarding which a police report has been completed.  A threat of violent
crime under this subdivision shall not include a crime that is committed
against a person who is residing in the same rental unit as the person making
the threat.  "Immediate family" means any spouse, whether by marriage or
not, parent, child, any person related by consanguinity of affinity within
the second degree, or any other person who regularly resides in the
household, or who, within the prior six months, regularly resided in the
household.  "Electronic communication device" includes but is not limited
to, telephones, cellular telephones, video recorders, fax machines, or
pagers.  "Electronic communication" has the same meaning as the term is
defined in subsection 12 of Section 2510 of Title 18 of the United States
Code, except that "electronic communication" for purposes of this definition
shall not be limited to electronic communication that affects interstate or
foreign commerce.



 



   UNLAWFUL WEAPON OR AMMUNITION CRIME.  The illegal use, manufacture,
causing to be manufactured, importation, possession, possession for sale,
sale, furnishing, or giving away of ammunition or any weapon listed in
subdivision (c)(1)-(5) of Section 3485 of the Civil Code.



 



   ILLEGAL DRUG ACTIVITY.  A violation of any of the provisions of
Chapter 6 (commencing with Section 11350) or Chapter 6.5 (commencing with
Section 11400) of the Health and Safety Code.



 



   LANDLORD.  An owner, lessor, or sublessor, or the agent,
representative or successor of any of the foregoing (including any person,
firm, corporation, partnership, or other entity) who leases the rental unit
for a specified term, or permits a periodic tenancy, a tenancy at will or a
tenancy at sufferance.



 



   PREMISES.  The rental unit and the land on which it and other
buildings of the complex are located and common areas, including but not
limited to, garage facilities, streets, alleyways, stairwells and elevators.



 



   RENTAL UNIT.  All dwelling units, efficiency dwelling units, guest
rooms, and suites, as defined in Section 12.03 of this Code, including
one-family dwellings, two-family dwellings and condominiums which are leased
for a specific term or occupied pursuant to a periodic tenancy, a tenancy at
will or a tenancy at sufferance in the City of Los Angeles.  This term shall
also include hotel and motel rooms subject to tenancy or transient occupancy,
mobile homes, whether rent is paid for the mobile home and the land upon
which the mobile home is located, or the rent is paid for the land alone. 
Further, it shall include recreational vehicles, as defined in California
Civil Code Section 799.24, if located in a mobile home park or recreational
vehicle park, whether rent is paid for the recreational vehicle and the land
upon which it is located, or rent is paid for the land alone.



 



   TENANT.  A tenant, subtenant, lessee, sublessee, any person entitled
to use or occupancy of a rental unit, or any other person residing in the
rental unit.



 



   B.   [DUTIES] OF THE LANDLORD.  A landlord shall not cause or
permit:



 



   (i)   the premises to be used or maintained for any illegal drug
activity, drug-related nuisance, violent crime, threat of violent crime,
unlawful weapon or ammunition crime, or gang-related crime; or



 



   (ii)   tenant to use or occupy the premises if the tenant commits,
permits, maintains or is involved in any illegal drug activity, violent crime
or threat of violent crime, gang-related crime, unlawful weapon or ammunition
crime, or drug-related nuisance on the premises or within a 1000 foot radius
from the boundary line of the premises.



 



   C.   ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES.  The City Attorney, or his or her
designee, shall promulgate administrative procedures necessary to implement
the provisions of this section.



 



   D.   REMEDIES.



 



   1.   Grounds for Eviction.  Notwithstanding any provision of the
Los Angeles Municipal Code to the contrary, a landlord may bring an action to
recover possession of a rental unit upon one of the following grounds:



 



   (i)   the tenant is committing or permitting to exist any illegal
drug activity, violent crime or threat of violent crime, gang-related crime,
unlawful weapon or ammunition crime, or drug- related nuisance on the
premises or within a 1000 foot radius from the boundary line of the premises,
or



 



   (ii)   the tenant has been convicted of a crime and the underlying
offense involves illegal drug activity, violent crime or threat of violent
crime, drug-related nuisance activity, unlawful weapon or ammunition crime,
or a gang-related crime on the premises.



 



   2.   Enforcement. If the City Attorney determines that the landlord
has failed to comply with the provisions of Subsection B. of this section
after receiving notice, then the City Attorney may file an action for
injunctive relief or take any other appropriate action to require the
landlord to comply with the provisions of this section.



 



   A court rendering a judgment pursuant to this subsection may, in
addition to any other order provided by law, impose a fine not to exceed
$5,000 payable to the City of Los Angeles, require the payment of reasonable
attorneys fees, and costs of investigation, discovery and court costs.



 



   E.   PAYMENTS.  If multiple defendants exist, they shall be jointly
and severally liable for any monetary judgment.  In addition to any other
remedy provided by law, the City may collect any judgment, fee, cost, or
charge, including any permit fees, fines, late charges, or interest, incurred
in relation to the provisions of this section as provided in Los Angeles
Administrative Code Sections 7.35.1 through 7.35.8.



 



 



ARTICLE 7.1
RESIDENTIAL HOTEL UNIT CONVERSION AND DEMOLITION



 




(Article Amended In Entirety by Ord. No. 180,175, Eff. 9/29/08.)




 



Section



47.70   Title.



47.71   Purpose.



47.72   Findings.



47.73   Definitions.



47.74   Applicability of this Article.



47.75   Residential Hotel Unit Status Determination.



47.76   Residential Unit Status Determination.



47.77   Claim of Exemption.



47.78   Application for Clearance.



47.79   Conditions for Approval of an Application for Clearance.



47.80   Rights of Tenants.



47.81   Destroyed Buildings or Buildings Demolished Pursuant to an
Abatement Proceeding.



47.82   Unlawful Conversion; Remedies; Fines.



47.83   Post or Posting.



47.84   Appeals to HCID General Manager's Hearing Officer.



47.85   Records of Use.



47.86   Investigations.



47.87   Promulgation of Rules and Regulations.



47.88   Annual Review of Residential Hotel Status.



47.89   Construction.



 



 



SEC. 47.70.  TITLE.



 



   This article shall be known as the Residential Hotel Unit Conversion
and Demolition Ordinance.



 



SEC. 47.71.  PURPOSE.



 



   It is the purpose of this ordinance to benefit the general public by
minimizing the adverse impact on the housing supply and on displaced
low-income, elderly, and disabled persons, which results from the loss of
residential hotel units through conversion and demolition.  This is to be
accomplished by establishing the status of residential hotel units, by
regulating the demolition and conversion of these units to other uses, and by
establishing appropriate administrative and judicial remedies.



 



SEC. 47.72.  FINDINGS.



 



   The Los Angeles City Council finds that:



 



   A.   There is a severe shortage of decent, safe and sanitary rental
housing in the City of Los Angeles and this shortage most severely affects
elderly, disabled and low-income persons.



 



   B.   Many elderly, disabled and low-income persons reside in
residential hotel units.



 



   C.   The Housing and Community Investment Department currently
designates 336 hotels as residential hotels, which contain 18,739 units in
the City of Los Angeles.  An additional survey of residential hotels billed
for annual fees by LAHD in 2006, revealed that 87% of residential hotels did
not request exemptions for tourist units.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,718,
Eff. 10/30/13.)



 



   D.   As a result of the removal of residential hotel units from the
rental housing market, a housing emergency exists within the City of Los
Angeles, acutely impacting elderly, disabled and low-income persons.



 



   E.   Residential hotel units are endangered housing resources and
must be protected.



 



   F.   The Los Angeles City Council recognized the housing emergency
caused by the loss of residential hotel units and enacted an ordinance that
established a moratorium on the demolition or conversion of residential hotel
units to any other use.  This Interim Control Ordinance became effective on
May 24, 2006.



 



   G.   The conversion and demolition of residential hotel units affect
those persons who are least able to cope with displacement in the City of Los
Angeles' housing market.



 



   H.   It is in the public interest that the conversion and demolition
of residential hotel units be regulated.  Furthermore, in order to protect
the resident tenants and to conserve limited housing resources, remedies must
be provided where unlawful conversion or demolition has occurred.



 



 



SEC. 47.73.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   Singular references also include plural and derivative uses of defined
terms where capitalized.



 



   A.   Affordable Housing Project.  Affordable Housing Project is a
housing development project with a government-imposed regulatory agreement
that has been recorded with the Los Angeles County Recorder, or which shall
be recorded within six months of the Claim of Exemption filed pursuant to
Section 47.77, guaranteeing that all of the residential units will be
affordable to either lower income or very low income households for a period
of at least 55 years, with at least ten percent of the units affordable to
households with income no greater than 30 percent of Area Median Income, and
no more than 25 percent of the units affordable only to households with
income at 60 percent of Area Median Income.  None of the units shall be
affordable only to households with income greater than 60 percent of Area
Median Income, as these terms are defined by the United States Department of
Housing.  "Lower income or very low income households" is defined in
accordance with California Health and Safety Code Sections 50079.5 and 50105.



 



   B.   Affordable Housing Trust Fund.  Affordable Housing Trust Fund
is a fund established by Los Angeles Administrative Code Section 5.522.



 



   C.   CRA/LA.  CRA/LA is the Community Redevelopment Agency of the
City of Los Angeles.



 



   D.   Comparable Unit.  Comparable Unit is a unit which is similar
in size, services, rental amount and facilities to the Residential Unit
proposed to be converted or demolished.



 



   E.   Conversion.  Conversion is any action that converts any
Residential Unit in a Residential Hotel through either:  (1) a change of use
to a commercial, industrial, or other non-residential use; (2) a change to a
different residential use; (3) a change from a residential use to a transient
or tourist guest use or occupancy; or (4) a conversion to a condominium,
cooperative, or similar form of ownership.



 



   F.   Demolition.  Demolition is any action that reduces the number
of existing guest rooms, light housekeeping rooms, or efficiency units in a
Residential Hotel, either by a complete tearing down of a building or
structure so that it no longer exists or by combining two or more units into
a single unit.



 



   G.   Destroyed.  Destroyed is an action defined by Section 12.03 of
the Los Angeles Municipal Code.



 



   H.   Disaster.  Disaster is an event defined by Section 12.03 of
the Los Angeles Municipal Code.



 



   I.   Efficiency Dwelling Unit.  Efficiency Dwelling Unit is defined
in Section 12.03 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.



 



   J.   GSD.  GSD is the Department of General Services.



 



   K.   Guest Room.  A Guest Room is defined in Section 12.03 of the
Los Angeles Municipal Code.



 



   L.   Interested Party.  An Interested Party is a resident or Tenant
of a Residential Hotel, or his or her authorized representative.  Interested
Party shall also mean any nonprofit organization exempted from federal
taxation pursuant to Subchapter F (commencing with Section 501) of Chapter 1
of Subtitle A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, and organized for the
purpose of maintaining or creating affordable housing.



 



   M.   LADBS.  LADBS is the Los Angeles Department of Building and
Safety.



 



   N.   HCID.  HCID is the Housing and Community Investment
Department.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,718, Eff. 10/30/13.)



 



   O.   Light Housekeeping Rooms.  Light Housekeeping Rooms are those
designed and used as a bedroom and for the cooking and preparing of food, in
conformance with the provisions of Los Angeles Municipal Code Section 91.8116.



 



   P.   Member of Appraisal Institute.  Member of Appraisal Institute
is a trade organization that certifies appraisers who meet the requirements
for the MAI designation.



 



   Q.   Owner.  Owner includes any person or legal entity holding any
ownership interest in a Residential Hotel or a building under consideration
for Residential Hotel status.



 



   R.   Person.  A Person is defined in Section 11.01 (a) of the Los
Angeles Municipal Code.



 



   S.   Residential Hotel.  A Residential Hotel, as defined in
accordance with California Health and Safety Code Section 50519, is any
building containing six or more guest rooms or efficiency units, intended or
designed to be used, or which are used, rented, or hired out, to be occupied,
or which are occupied, for sleeping purposes by guests, and which is also the
primary residence of those guests.  The term Residential Hotel excludes any
building containing six or more guest rooms or efficiency units, which is
primarily used by transient guests who do not occupy units in that building
as their primary residence.



 



   T.   Residential Unit.  A Residential Unit is any guest room, light
housekeeping room, efficiency unit, or dwelling unit in a Residential Hotel
that was occupied as a primary residence on October 11, 2005.  If a unit was
vacant on October 11, 2005, a Residential Unit shall mean any guest room,
light housekeeping room, efficiency unit, or dwelling unit in a Residential
Hotel that, on the first day that the unit was subsequently occupied, was
occupied as a primary residence.



 



   U.   Tenant.  A Tenant is a Person who is entitled to occupy and
occupies a Residential Unit for at least 31 consecutive days.



 



   V.   Tourist Unit.  A Tourist Unit is a unit in a Residential Hotel
that does not meet the criteria of a Residential Unit.



 



 



SEC. 47.74.  APPLICABILITY OF THIS ARTICLE.



 



   A.   This article shall not apply to any Residential Hotel that is
an Affordable Housing Project.  An Affordable Housing Project that is exempt
from the provisions of this article shall lose its exempt status and become
subject to the provisions of this article when it ceases to be an Affordable
Housing Project.



 



   B.   This article shall also not apply to any Residential Hotel that:



 



   1.   was completely and continuously unoccupied by any Person from
October 11, 2005, through and including the date that the Owner applies for a
building permit for a Residential Hotel that constitutes a proposed
Conversion or Demolition of the Residential Hotel, or is a new development on
the site of a Destroyed or Demolished Residential Hotel; or



 



   2.   pursuant to California Government Code Section 7060, et seq.,
was first approved for residential occupancy on or after January 1, 1990, as
evidenced by a certificate of occupancy issued by LADBS on or after that
date; or



 



   3.   pursuant to California Government Code Section 7060, et seq.,
sent or delivered to HCID before October 11, 2005, a notice of intent to
withdraw all of the building's accommodations from rent or lease; or 
(Amended by Ord. No. 182,718, Eff. 10/30/13.)



 



   4.   consisted entirely of Residential Units that were rented or
offered for rent for periods of no less than 30 days from October 11, 1995,
to the effective date of this article.  This exemption applies only to
Residential Hotels containing 55 or fewer units.



 



 



SEC. 47.75.  RESIDENTIAL HOTEL STATUS DETERMINATION.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 182,718, Eff. 10/30/13.)



 



   A.   HCID will determine whether a building is a Residential Hotel.



 



   B.   HCID shall notify the Owner of any building that it classifies
as a Residential Hotel that such building is subject to the provisions of
this article.  HCID shall include in the notification a copy of this
article, the appeal form referenced in Subsection C. of this section, and an
Application for Exemption.  HCID shall mail the notice to the Owner at the
address that appears in the last equalized assessment roll or at the address
provided to HCID through any registration in accordance with Section 151.05.
The Owner shall immediately post the notice until the time for appealing such
designation expires.



 



   C.   An Owner of a Residential Hotel or Interested Party who alleges
that the building is not a Residential Hotel may file an appeal with HCID
within 60 days of the date that HCID deposited its notification in the mail
pursuant to Subsection B. of this section.



 



   1.   An appellant who files an appeal shall do so on a form
prescribed by HCID and shall pay an administrative fee in the amount of
$605.  The fee shall pay for the cost of investigating and processing the
appeal.



 



   2.   The appellant shall submit evidence with the appeal to support
the appeal.



 



   3.   The appellant has the burden of proving by a preponderance of
the evidence that the property is not a Residential Hotel.  Tenants, other
Interested Parties and the Owner if the Owner is not the appellant, may
submit evidence to HCID.



 



   4.   Within 15 days of the filing of the appeal, HCID shall provide
the appellant and any Interested Party requesting such information all
information HCID relied upon in the determination from which the appeal is
made, except that the Owner's confidential financial or proprietary
information shall not be disclosed to any Person other than the Owner. 
Within 20 days from receipt of such information, the appellant may submit
additional information to HCID.



 



   5.   On the date that the Owner files the appeal, or as soon as HCID
notifies an Owner that an Interested Party has filed an appeal, the Owner
shall post a notice on a form prescribed by HCID.  The notice shall state
that the appellant has appealed the City's Residential Hotel Status
Determination.  The notice shall identify the grounds for the appeal.  The
notice shall provide the name and contact number of HCID staff an Owner or
Interested Party can contact to provide additional evidence and information
regarding the appeal.  HCID shall also mail a copy of the notice to the
occupants of the building subject to the appeal.  The notice shall remain
posted until after HCID issues a written determination regarding the appeal.



 



   6.   HCID shall issue a determination of the appeal based on the
evidence submitted within 90 days of the filing of the appeal.  The basis
for the determination shall be described therein.  HCID shall mail a copy of
the determination to the Owner, and any Interested Party who filed an appeal
or submitted evidence pursuant to this section.



 



   D.   An Owner or any Interested Party who presented evidence
pursuant to this section may appeal HCID's determination to a General
Manager's Hearing Officer pursuant to the provisions of Section 47.84.  The
Owner shall post HCID's determination until the time for filing any appeal
expires.  The appeal shall be filed at HCID within 15 calendar days after
HCID mails its determination.  HCID's determination shall be final if a
timely appeal is not filed.



 



   E.   Any appeal of a Notice regarding a Residential Hotel
determination that was sent to an Owner of a building prior to the effective
date of this Ordinance shall be governed by the procedures set forth in
Section 47.75 of this Ordinance unless the appellant elects to utilize the
appeal procedures set forth in Section 47.75 as they existed prior to the
effective date of this Ordinance.



 



 



SEC. 47.76.  RESIDENTIAL UNIT STATUS DETERMINATION.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 182,718, Eff. 10/30/13.)



 



   A.   After, or concurrently with, HCID's determination of whether a
building is a Residential Hotel, HCID shall determine whether the Residential
Hotel contains only Residential Units or some Tourist Units.



 



   B.   HCID shall notify the Owner of any building that it classifies
as a Residential Hotel whether any units in the Residential Hotel have been
determined to be Tourist Units.  HCID shall include in the notification a
copy of this article and the appeal form referenced in Subsection C. of this
section.  HCID shall mail the notice to the Owner at the address that
appears in the last equalized assessment roll or at the address provided to
HCID through any registration in accordance with Section 151.05. The Owner
shall immediately post the notice until the time for appealing such
determination expires.



 



   C.   An Owner of a Residential Hotel or Interested Party who alleges
that a Tourist Unit or Residential Unit determination is incorrect may file
an appeal with HCID within 60 days of the date that HCID deposited its
notification in the mail pursuant to Subsection B. of this section.  Any
such appeal shall be limited to the issue of the alleged improper
determination of units as Residential or Tourist.



 



   1.   An appellant who files an appeal shall do so on a form
prescribed by HCID and shall pay an administrative fee in the amount of
$988.  (First Sentence Amended by Ord. No. 180,867, Eff. 10/18/09.)  The
fee shall pay for the cost of investigating and processing the appeal.



 



   2.   The appellant shall submit evidence with the appeal.  An
appellant who claims that the designation of the number of units as
Residential or Tourist Units was incorrect shall identify the specific units
it claims are incorrectly designated.



 



   3.   The Appellant has the burden of proving by a preponderance of
the evidence that the units were misdesignated.  Tenants, Interested Parties
and the Owner if the Owner is not the appellant, may submit evidence to HCID.



 



   4.   Within 15 days of the filing of the appeal, HCID shall provide
the appellant, and any Interested Party requesting such information, all
information HCID relied upon in the determination from which the appeal is
made, except that the Owner's confidential financial or proprietary
information shall not be disclosed to any Person other than the Owner. 
Within 20 days from receipt of such information, additional information may
be submitted to HCID.



 



   5.   On the date that the Owner files the appeal, or as soon as HCID
notifies an Owner that an Interested Party has filed an appeal, the Owner
shall post a notice on a form prescribed by HCID.  The notice shall state
that the appellant has appealed the City's Residential Unit Status
Determination.  The notice shall identify the grounds for the appeal and
shall identify any rooms that the appellant contends were misdesignated and
what the alleged correct designation should have been.  The notice shall
provide the name and contact number of HCID staff an Owner or Interested
Party can contact to provide additional evidence and information regarding
the appeal.  HCID shall also mail a copy of the notice to the occupants of
the building subject to the appeal.  The notice shall remain posted until
after HCID issues a written determination regarding the appeal.



 



   6.   HCID shall issue a determination of the appeal based on the
evidence submitted within 90 days of the filing of the appeal.  The basis
for the determination shall be described therein.  HCID shall mail a copy of
the determination to the Owner, the occupants of the units claimed as Tourist
Units by the Owner, and any Interested Party who filed an appeal or submitted
evidence pursuant to this section.



 



   D.   An Owner or any Interested Party who presented evidence
pursuant to this section may appeal HCID's determination to a General
Manager's Hearing Officer pursuant to the provisions of Section 47.84.  The
Owner shall post HCID's determination until the time for filing any appeal
expires.  The appeal shall be filed at HCID within 15 calendar days after
HCID mails its determination.  HCID's determination shall be final if a
timely appeal is not filed.



 



 



SEC. 47.77.  CLAIM OF EXEMPTION.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 182,718, Eff. 10/30/13.)



 



   A.   Applications for Exemption based on Subsection A. of Section
47.74, Affordable Housing Projects.  Applications for exemption based on
Subsection A. of Section 47.74 shall be subject to the provisions below of
this subsection:



 



   1.   Filing of Application for Exemption.  An application for
exemption based on Subsection A. of Section 47.74 may be filed at any time by
the Owner.  The Owner shall pay an administrative fee in the amount of $205
when filing the application.  The fee shall pay for the cost of
investigating and processing the application.



 



   2.   Owner's Submission of Evidence.  The Owner shall submit
evidence with the application to support the claim of exemption.  The Owner
has the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence that the
Residential Hotel is exempt from the provisions of this article.



 



   3.   Determination of Exempt Status.  HCID shall issue a
determination of the claim for exemption based on the evidence submitted, and
shall mail a copy of the determination to the Owner within 90 days of filing
the application.



 



   4.   Appeal of Denial of Application for Exemption.  An Owner may
appeal the denial of an application for exemption pursuant to the provisions
of Subsection C. of this section.



 



   B.   Applications for Exemption based on Subsection B. of Section
47.74.  Applications for exemptions based on Subsection B. of Section 47.74
shall be subject to the provisions below of this subsection:



 



   1.   Timing of filing of Application for Exemption.  An application
for exemption based on Subsection B. of Section 47.74 must be filed within 60
days after HCID mails notification pursuant to Subsection B. of Section
47.75.  Failure to timely file an application for exemption will result in
denial of the application, unless HCID finds that good cause exists for the
untimely filing.  The Owner shall also pay an administrative fee in the
amount of $205 when filing the application.  The fee shall pay for the cost
of investigating and processing the application.



 



   2.   Posting Notice of Application for Exemption.  On the date that
the Owner files the application for exemption with HCID, the Owner shall post
a notice.  The notice shall be on a form prescribed by HCID.  The notice
shall provide the name and contact number of HCID staff whom Tenants and an
Interested Party can contact to provide additional evidence and
information.  HCID shall also mail a copy of the Owner's application for
exemption to each of the units of the Residential Hotel.  The notice shall
remain posted until after HCID issues a written determination regarding the
application for exemption.



 



   3.   Submission of Evidence.  The Owner shall submit evidence with
the application to support the claim of exemption.  The Owner has the burden
of proving by a preponderance of the evidence that the Residential Hotel is
exempt from the provisions of this article.  Any Interested Party may submit
evidence to HCID.



 



   4.   Determination of Exempt Status.  HCID shall review the
application for exemption and evidence submitted.  HCID shall issue a
determination of the application for exemption within 90 days of the filing
of the application.  HCID shall mail a copy of the determination to the
Owner and to any Interested Party who submitted evidence pursuant to the
provisions of Subdivision 3. of this subsection.  The Owner shall post
HCID's determination until the time for filing any appeal expires.



 



   5.   Appeal from Determination of Exempt Status.  An Owner or any
Interested Party who submitted evidence pursuant to Subdivision 3. of this
subsection may appeal HCID's determination of an application for exemption
pursuant to the provisions of Subsection C, of this section.



 



   C.   Appeal of Determination of Application for Exemption.  An
appeal pursuant to the provisions of Subdivision 4. of Subsection A. of this
section or Subdivision 5. of Subsection B. of this section may be made to the
General Manager's Hearing Officer pursuant to the provisions of Section 47.84
of this article.  The appeal shall be filed at HCID within 15 calendar days
after HCID mails the determination of the application for exemption.  HCID's
determination of an application for exemption shall be final if a timely
appeal is not filed.  The appellant shall have the burden of proving by a
preponderance of the evidence that the decision on exemption was erroneous.



 



 



SEC. 47.78.  APPLICATION FOR CLEARANCE.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 182,718, Eff. 10/30/13.)



 



   The City shall not approve a Conversion or Demolition of a Residential
Hotel, or any new development on the site of a Destroyed or Demolished
Residential Hotel, until HCID has approved an Application for Clearance filed
by the Owner pursuant to this section.



 



   A.   If an Owner applies for a building permit for a Residential
Hotel that constitutes a proposed Conversion or Demolition of the Residential
Hotel, or is a new development on the site of a Destroyed or Demolished
Residential Hotel, then the following procedures shall apply:



 



   1.   LADBS shall inform HCID of the application for a building
permit.



 



   2.   The Owner shall file an Application for Clearance with HCID. 
Within 90 days after HCID has deemed the application complete, HCID shall
either deny the application or determine the conditions for approval of the
application.



 



   3.   HCID shall make one of the following determinations when an
Owner files a complete Application for Clearance:



 



   (a)   Deny an Application for Clearance if the applicant has
violated the provisions of Subsection A. of Section 47.82;



 



   (b)   Exempt the property from the provisions of this article if the
Application for Clearance is for an Affordable Housing Project pursuant to
the provisions of Section 47.74; or



 



   (c)   Determine the conditions for approval of an Application for
Clearance pursuant to Section 47.79.



 



   4.   HCID shall mail a copy of HCID's letter of determination of an
Application for Clearance to the Owner, the occupants of the Residential
Hotel's units, and the applicable Council office.



 



   5.   The Owner and any Interested Party may appeal the conditions
for approval of an Application for Clearance to the General Manager's Hearing
Officer pursuant to the provisions of Section 47.84.



 



   6.   HCID shall only approve the Application for Clearance if the
Owner complies with the conditions determined by HCID pursuant to this
section or, if the conditions for approval are appealed, as determined
pursuant to Section 47.84.



 



   B.   An Owner who files an Application for Clearance with HCID and
wants the option to pay a fee pursuant to the provisions of Subdivision 2. of
Subsection A. of Section 47.79 shall pay an application fee in the amount of
$2000 for each application.  An Owner who files an Application for Clearance
with HCID and does not want the option to pay a fee pursuant to the
provisions of Subdivision 2. of Subsection A. of Section 47.79 shall pay an
application fee in the amount of $1108 for each application.  The
application fee shall pay for the City's cost of administering the
application process.



 



   C.   The Application for Clearance shall contain the following
information:



 



   1.   The legal and mailing address of the Residential Hotel;



 



   2.   The names and addresses of all Owners or operators of the
Residential Hotel;



 



   3.   The names of all Tenants in the Residential Hotel;



 



   4.   The total number of units in the Residential Hotel and the
current uses;



 



   5.   The current rental rates for the Residential Units; and



 



   6.   The length of each Tenant's tenancy in Residential Units
affected by the Application for Clearance.



 



 



SEC. 47.79.  CONDITIONS FOR APPROVAL OF AN APPLICATION FOR CLEARANCE.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 182,718, Eff. 10/30/13.)



 



   A.   HCID shall require an Owner to satisfy one of the following
conditions for approval of an Application for Clearance:



 



   1.   Construct, for each Residential Unit to be Converted or
Demolished, a Comparable Unit in the City of Los Angeles within a two-mile
radius of the units to be Converted or Demolished.



 



   (a)    HCID may authorize the construction of fewer units to replace
the Residential Units to be Converted or Demolished if HCID determines that
the following three conditions are met:



 



   (i)   The replacement units provide amenities, such as bathrooms and
kitchens, not present in the units to be withdrawn;



 



   (ii)   The needs of the current residents of the Residential Hotel
would be served by the better amenities and larger units; and



 



   (iii)   The reduction in the number of units would not significantly
decrease the number of available Residential Units in the City.



 



   (b)   Where the Owner chooses to comply with the conditions for
approval of an Application for Clearance pursuant to this subdivision, HCID
shall not approve the Application for Clearance until LADBS issues a
certificate of occupancy for units constructed pursuant to this subdivision,
except where CRA/LA has approved replacement units within four years of the
date of Demolition of the Residential Hotel units pursuant to CRA/LA
Development Guidelines and Controls for Residential Hotels in the City Center
and Central Industrial Redevelopment Project Areas, so long as the guidelines
are in full force and effect.



 



   2.   Pay to the City of Los Angeles a fee in an amount equal to 80
percent of the cost of construction of an equal number of comparable
Residential Units plus 100 percent of site acquisition costs.  GSD shall
determine the fee amount based on an independent MAI certified appraisal
reviewed by GSD.  The applicant shall pay for the appraisal.  The fee
payments shall be placed in the Affordable Housing Trust Fund and be used for
the Permanent Supportive Housing Program pursuant to Subsection B. of this
section.  The funds deposited in the Affordable Housing Trust Fund for the
Permanent Supportive Housing Program pursuant to the provisions of this
subdivision may be used to create replacement units.  If the units to be
Converted or Demolished are in the City Center or Central Industrial
Redevelopment Project Area, the fee will be paid into the Affordable Housing
Trust Fund to be used for the Permanent Supportive Housing Program in
accordance with the CRA/LA's Guidelines and Controls for Residential Hotels
in the City Center and Central Industrial Redevelopment Project Areas, for so
long as the guidelines are in full force and effect.




   3.   Convert Residential Units to units that are either Light
Housekeeping Rooms, Efficiency Dwelling Units or dwelling units, and which
shall be subject to a regulatory agreement filed with the Los Angeles County
Recorder guaranteeing for a period of at least 55 years that at least 10
percent of the units shall be affordable to households with income no greater
than 30 percent of Area Median Income, at least an additional 40 percent of
the units shall be affordable to households with income no greater than 40
percent of Area Median Income, and at least an additional 30 percent of the
units shall be affordable to households with income no greater than 50
percent of Area Median Income, as these terms are defined by the United
States Department of Housing.  The initial rent for the remaining units may
be set at any amount.



 



   (a)   The option provided by this subdivision applies only to
Residential Hotels containing more than 250 units.



 



   (b)   HCID may authorize the construction of fewer units to replace
the Residential Units to be Converted pursuant to this subdivision if HCID
determines that the following three conditions are met:



 



   (i)   The replacement units provide amenities, such as bathrooms and
kitchens, not present in the units to be withdrawn;



 



   (ii)   The needs of the current residents of the Residential Hotel
would be served by the better amenities and larger units; and



 



   (iii)   The reduction in the number of units would not significantly
decrease the number of available Residential Units in the City.



 



   B.   The funds deposited in the Affordable Housing Trust Fund
pursuant to the provisions of this article shall be used to provide capital
funding for the development of permanent supportive housing projects pursuant
to the City's Permanent Supportive Housing Program.  At the end of the
calendar year after the year in which funds are deposited in the Affordable
Housing Trust Fund, any remaining funds that have not been committed through
the Permanent Supportive Housing Program shall be available for the
development of affordable housing projects funded through the Affordable
Housing Trust Fund.  Units developed with funds committed under the
Affordable Housing Trust Fund pursuant to this subsection shall be restricted
to households with incomes no greater than 35% of Area Median Income, as
defined by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development.



 



 



SEC. 47.80.  RIGHTS OF TENANTS.



 



   A.   Relocation Assistance.  Tenants evicted from Residential Units
pursuant to Section 151.09 A.13. of this code shall be entitled to relocation
assistance pursuant to the provisions of Section 151.09 G.



 



   B.   Right of First Refusal.  Within 60 days of the issuance of a
certificate of occupancy for units constructed pursuant to Section 47.79
A.1., the Owner shall first offer to rent the units to Tenants who were
evicted, pursuant to Section 151.09 A.13. of this Code, from the Residential
Units that were the subject of the Application for Clearance.



 



   C.   Tenancy.  If a Tenant takes possession of a unit pursuant to
the provisions of Subsection B. of this section, that unit shall be subject
to the provisions of Chapter XV of this Code.



 



 



SEC. 47.81.  DESTROYED BUILDINGS OR BUILDINGS DEMOLISHED PURSUANT TO AN
ABATEMENT PROCEEDING.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 182,718, Eff. 10/30/13.)



 



   A.   This section shall apply to Residential Hotel buildings that
are Destroyed by a Disaster or Demolished by LADBS pursuant to Section
91.8905 or 91.8907 of this Code, unless the proposed development will be an
Affordable Housing Project.



 



   B.   The City shall not approve building permits for a Destroyed
Residential Hotel building, or for any new development on the site of a
Destroyed or Demolished Residential Hotel, unless the owner files an
Application for Clearance with HCID and complies with the provisions of
Section 47.79.



 



   C.   HCID shall have the authority to record an affidavit with the
County Recorder stating that no permits for any new development on the site
of a Destroyed or Demolished Residential Hotel shall be issued unless the
Owner has complied with the provisions of this article.



 



 



SEC. 47.82.  UNLAWFUL CONVERSION; REMEDIES; FINES.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 182,718, Eff. 10/30/13.)



 



   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to Convert or Demolish any
Residential Hotel building or Residential Unit in violation of the provisions
of this article.



 



   1.   Changing the use of a Residential Unit for non-commercial
purposes that serves only the needs of the permanent residents, such as a
residents' lounge, storeroom or common area, does not constitute a violation
of this article.



 



   2.   Demolition of an existing Residential Unit to combine units for
a non-commercial purpose that serves only the needs of the permanent
residents does not constitute a violation of this article.



 



   3.   An Owner is prohibited from Converting or Demolishing less than
all of the original number of Residential Units in a Residential Hotel,
except where an Owner satisfies the conditions for approval of an Application
for Clearance pursuant to the provisions of Subdivision 3. of Subsection A.
of Section 47.79.



 



   B.   HCID Order Regarding Violations and Fines.  Whenever HCID
determines that any Residential Hotel is in violation of this article, HCID
shall order the violation corrected, and shall impose a fine pursuant to the
provisions of this section.



 



   C.   Appeal of Order to General Manager's Hearing.  Where an Owner
believes that an order issued pursuant to the provisions of Subsection B. of
this section was in error regarding the violations identified or the fine
assessed, the Owner may appeal the order by filing a request for a General
Manager's hearing pursuant to the provisions of Section 47.84.  The Owner
must file the appeal in writing on a form provided by the Department within
15 calendar days of when HCID mailed the order.  If the appeal is not
received within this period, the order shall be final.  If the Owner timely
appeals the order to a General Manager's hearing, the order shall be stayed
pending the appeal.



 



   D.   Fines, Penalties and Interest.



 



   1.   Imposition of Fine.  A Person violating any provision of this
article shall pay a fine up to the amount of $250 per day for each violation
that is the subject of an order issued pursuant to Subsection B. of this
section.  Fines imposed pursuant to orders that are not appealed to a
General Manager's hearing must be paid within 30 days after issuance of the
order.  Fines not paid within 30 days shall be deemed delinquent.  Fines
imposed by orders that are appealed to a General Manager's hearing must be
paid within 30 days after the Hearing Officer issues a written decision
pursuant to the provisions of Subsection F. of Section 47.84 if the Hearing
Officer affirms imposition of the fine.  Fines not paid within 30 days of
issuance of a decision shall be deemed delinquent.



 



   2.   Imposition of Late Penalty.  A Person whose fine is delinquent
shall be assessed a penalty in the amount of 100 percent of the fine.  The
penalty shall be owed in addition to the amount of the fine.



 



   3.   Interest.  In addition to the fine and penalties imposed, any
Person with a delinquent fine shall pay interest on the amount of the fine
and any penalty owed at the rate of one and one-half percent per full month
of delinquency.



 



   4.   Personal Obligation of Owner.  In addition to all other
remedies provided by law, all penalties and interest owed for violations of
this article shall be a personal obligation of the Owner, recoverable by the
City in an action before any court of competent jurisdiction.



 



   5.   Criminal Penalties for Violations.  Any Person willfully
violating the requirements of this article shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.  The penalty upon conviction shall be not more than a fine of
$1,000 or imprisonment in the county jail, not exceeding six months, or both
fine and imprisonment.  Violations of this article are deemed continuing
violations, and each day that a violation continues is deemed to be a new and
separate offense.



 



   6.   False Information Misdemeanor.  It shall be unlawful for any
Person to willfully provide false information to HCID or its designees.  Any
Person who provides false information to the City, when required to provide
information pursuant to this article, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. 
Conviction of this misdemeanor shall be punishable by a fine of not more than
$500 or by imprisonment in the County Jail for a period not to exceed six
months, or both fine and imprisonment.



 



   E.   Civil Action.  An Interested Party or the City may institute a
civil proceeding for injunctive relief and damages for violations of this
article.  The Interested Party instituting a civil proceeding, or the City
suing to enforce the provisions of this article, if prevailing parties, shall
be entitled to the costs of enforcing this article, including reasonable
attorneys' fees, pursuant to an order of the Court.



 



 



SEC. 47.83.  POST OR POSTING.



 



   Where posting is required by this article, material shall be posted in
a conspicuous location at the front desk in the lobby of the Residential
Hotel subject to the posting requirement, or if there is no lobby, in the
public entranceway.  No material posted may be removed by any Person except
as otherwise provided in this article.



 



 



SEC. 47.84.  APPEALS TO HCID GENERAL MANAGER'S HEARING OFFICER.



   (Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 182,718, Eff. 10/30/13.)



 



   A.   Filing of the Appeal.  Appeals to the General Manager's
Hearing Officer shall be on a form prescribed by HCID.  The appellant must
pay a fee in the amount of $600 to fund the administrative cost of the
hearing process.  Appellants must state the basis of the appeal and provide
supporting evidence.



 



   B.   Powers of the Hearing Officer.  The General Manager's Hearing
Officer shall exercise all powers related to the conduct of a hearing.  The
Hearing Officer shall have the discretion to grant a continuance of the
hearing upon a showing of good cause.  The Hearing Officer has the power to
administer oaths and affirmations during the hearing.  The Hearing Officer
shall require the maintenance of order in the hearing room, may order the
exclusion of witnesses, may expel anyone who disturbs the hearing, and may
secure the aid of the Los Angeles Police Department for these purposes.



 



   C.   Notice of General Manager's Hearing.  The General Manager's
hearing shall be held within 60 days of the filing of the appeal.  Notice of
the General Manager's hearing shall be mailed to the Owner, via certified
United States mail, postage prepaid, or delivered in person, at least seven
calendar days prior to the hearing.  Upon receipt of the notice, the Owner
shall post the notice and shall keep the notice posted until after completion
of the hearing.  HCID shall also provide notice to the occupants of the
Residential Hotel by mail, or in person, at least seven calendar days prior
to the hearing.



 



   D.   Presentation of Evidence.  HCID staff, the Owner, and any
other Interested Party may present oral, photographic or documentary evidence
that is relevant to the case for consideration by the Hearing Officer. 
Appellants shall have the burden of proof, and shall present substantial
evidence and specific facts to support their appeal.



 



   E.   Recording of Hearing.  The proceedings shall be audio-recorded
by HCID.



 



   F.   Hearing Officer's Decision.  After considering all relevant
evidence and arguments, the Hearing Officer shall issue a written decision
within 30 calendar days of the hearing. The Hearing Officer shall decide,
based on the record, whether HCID erred or abused its discretion.  The
decision shall be supported by written findings.  HCID will mail a copy of
the decision to the Owner and any Interested Party who presented evidence at
the hearing, and the occupants of the Residential Hotel.  The Owner shall
post the Hearing Officer's determination for 20 days.  The decision of the
Hearing Officer shall be the final administrative decision except in the
following circumstance:  If the Hearing Officer authorizes construction of
fewer units pursuant to Section 47.79 A.1.(a) or Section 47.79 A.3.(b) and
this results in a reduction of more than 25 percent of the number of
Residential Units being converted or demolished, the Owner or any Interested
Party may appeal the Hearing Officer's decision to the City Council pursuant
to the provisions of Subsection G. of this section.



 



   G.   Appeals to the City Council.  Appeals to the City Council
shall be filed with HCID on the forms prescribed by HCID within fifteen days
of the date of mailing of the Hearing Officer's decision.  HCID shall
transmit the appeal form to the City Clerk for a public hearing before the
City Council.  The City Council shall hear the appeal within 30 days after
it is filed, unless HCID and the Owner consent to an extension of time.  The
Council shall give notice of the hearing to the Appellant and any Interested
Party who presented evidence at the hearing. The Owner shall post notice of
the hearing until the hearing is concluded. At the time established for the
hearing, the Council or its Committee shall hear the testimony of HCID staff,
the Owner and any Interested Party, and any witnesses on their behalf. 
Appellants shall have the burden of proof, and shall present substantial
evidence and specific facts to support their appeal.  Upon conclusion of the
hearing, the City Council shall within ten days render its decision on the
appeal based upon the testimony and documents produced before it.  The City
Council may by resolution sustain, modify, or reject HCID authorization of
the construction of fewer units pursuant to Section 47.79 A.1.(a) or Section
47.79 A.3.(b), and shall make findings consistent with the provisions of this
article.  Notice of the City Council's decision shall be mailed to HCID, the
Owner, and any Interested Party who presented evidence at the hearing.  The
Owner shall post the decision for 20 days after receipt of the decision.  If
at the end of the time limit specified in this subsection, or time extension
consented to by HCID and Appellants, the City Council fails to act, the
appeal shall be deemed denied and the Hearing Officer's decision from which
the appeal was taken shall be deemed affirmed.  It shall be the duty of the
City Clerk to issue the decision.



 



   H.   Mayoral Review of City Council Decision.  When the City
Council renders a decision pursuant to Subsection G. of this section, the
matter together with the files and reports shall forthwith be transmitted to
the Mayor.  The Mayor may approve or disapprove the City Council decision
within ten working days of its presentation to the Mayor.  This action shall
be based solely upon the administrative record and whether the Mayor believes
the City Council decision is consistent with the provisions of this
article.  If the Mayor disapproves the decision, the Mayor shall return the
matter to the City Clerk for presentation to the City Council, along with
objections in writing.  If the Mayor does not disapprove the decision within
ten working days after its presentation, the City Council decision shall
become final and effective.



 



   If the Mayor disapproves the City Council decision, the Mayor shall
return the matter to the Clerk for presentation to the City Council, together
with objections in writing.  The City Council may override the disapproval
by a two-thirds vote within ten working days of the first City Council
meeting at which the Clerk presented the matter with the objections of the
Mayor.  If the City Council fails to override the Mayor's disapproval within
the ten working days, the following shall be the effect of the disapproval:



 



   (1)   If the City Council had sustained HCID authorization of the
construction of fewer units, the Mayor's disapproval shall constitute a
rejection of HCID's authorization of the construction of fewer units;



 



   (2)   If the City Council had modified HCID authorization of the
construction of fewer units, the Mayor's disapproval shall constitute
approval of HCID's authorization of the construction of fewer units; and



 



   (3)   If the City Council had rejected HCID authorization of the
construction of fewer units, the Mayor's disapproval shall constitute
approval of HCID's authorization of the construction of fewer units.



 



 



SEC. 47.85.  RECORDS OF USE.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 182,718, Eff. 10/30/13.)



 



   All Residential Hotels shall maintain a daily log documenting the
status of each room, whether it is occupied or vacant, whether it is used as
a Residential or Tourist Unit, the name under which each adult occupant is
registered, the type of identification used to verify the identity of the
occupants, and the amount of rent charged.  Each Residential Hotel shall
provide receipts to each adult occupant and maintain copies of the receipts
showing the following:  the room number, the name of each adult occupant,
the rental amount and period paid for and any associated charges imposed and
paid for the unit, including, but not limited to, security deposits and any
taxes.  The daily log and copies of receipts shall be made available for
inspection and investigation by the HCID upon request.



 



 



SEC. 47.86.  INVESTIGATIONS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 182,718, Eff. 10/30/13.)



 



   HCID may request information from an Owner or Interested Party and
conduct investigations as reasonably necessary to implement the provisions of
this Article and to determine the status of a building as a Residential
Hotel.  If HCID has requested information from an Owner in order to make a
determination pursuant to Sections 47.75 or 47.76, and the requested
information is not provided, HCID may deem the building a Residential Hotel
and all of the units therein Residential Units.



 



 



SEC. 47.87.  PROMULGATION OF RULES AND REGULATIONS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 182,718, Eff. 10/30/13.)



 



   HCID and LADBS shall have the authority to adopt policies, rules and
regulations to effectuate the purposes of this article, and to implement and
administer their duties imposed pursuant to the provisions of this article.



 



 



SEC. 47.88.  ANNUAL REVIEW OF RESIDENTIAL HOTEL STATUS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 182,718, Eff. 10/30/13.)



 



   The General Manager of HCID, with assistance from LADBS, shall prepare
and report to the Mayor and the City Council annually with respect to the
administration of this article and shall provide the following information:



 



   A.   Current data on the number of Residential Hotels and the number
of Residential Units in each of the Residential Hotels in the City of Los
Angeles;



 



   B.   Current data on the number of Residential Units Converted or
Demolished pursuant to an approved application for clearance;



 



   C.   Current data on the number of Residential Units eliminated due
to Demolition as a result of major fires, natural causes or accidents;



 



   D.   Current data on the number of Residential Units illegally
converted;



 



   E.   Current data on the number of replacement housing units
rehabilitated or constructed;



 



   F.   A summary of the enforcement efforts by all City agencies
responsible for the administration of this article; and



 



   G.   A report on expenditures of monies in the Affordable Housing
Trust Fund received pursuant to the provisions of this article.



 



SEC. 47.89.  CONSTRUCTION.



 



   Nothing in this article may be construed to supersede any other
lawfully enacted ordinance of the City of Los Angeles, except that
definitions provided in this article shall govern the enforcement of this
article.  An Owner of a Residential Hotel subject to the provisions of this
article must comply with all applicable federal, state and local laws,
including, without limitation, the CRA/LA Development Guidelines and Controls
for Residential Hotels in the City Center and Central Industrial
Redevelopment Project Areas, so long as the guidelines are in full force and
effect.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 7.2
MORTGAGE MODIFICATION CONSULTANTS



 




(Added by Ord. No. 180,675, Eff. 5/6/09.)




 



Section



47.100   Title.



47.101   Purpose.



47.102   Findings.



47.103   Definitions.



47.104   Right of Cancellation.



47.105   Contract Requirements.



47.106   Violations.



47.107   Waiver.



47.108   Owner's Right of Action.



47.109   Liability of Mortgage Foreclosure Consultant for Damages
Resulting from Statements Made, or Acts by, a Representative.



 



 



SEC. 47.100.  TITLE.



 



   This Article shall be known as the Mortgage Modification Consultant
Regulations.



 



 



SEC. 47.101.  PURPOSE.



 



   It is the purpose of this Article to benefit the general public by
preventing homeowners who are threatened with the potential foreclosure of
their properties from being victimized by persons who obtain payment by
falsely promising that they are able to assist homeowners in modifying the
terms of loans secured by deeds of trust in order to make the loans more
affordable.



 



   This purpose is to be accomplished by requiring that persons and
entities seeking to obtain payment for such services enter into a written
contract with the homeowner describing the services to be performed and that
the contract notify homeowners of their rights to cancel the contract, that
no fees be charged or collected in advance of performance, and that any
aggrieved homeowner will have a private cause of action for treble damages,
costs and attorneys' fees.



 



 



SEC. 47.102.  FINDINGS.



 



   The Los Angeles City Council finds that:



 



   A.   There is an unprecedented number of homeowners in the City of
Los Angeles threatened with foreclosure;



 



   B.   At the same time, there is an unprecedented effort on the part
of various governmental entities and lenders to encourage lenders and
borrowers to attempt to modify mortgages in order to make such loans more
affordable and to lessen, if not prevent, the possibility of foreclosure;



 



   C.   On March 4, 2009, the Obama Administration announced new U.S.
Department of the Treasury guidelines to enable loan servicers to begin
modifications of eligible mortgages under the Administration's Homeowner
Affordability and Stability Plan;



 



   D.   There has arisen a class of people who, preying on homeowners
threatened with foreclosure, falsely promise to attempt to modify mortgages
in exchange for advance payment and who provide no written contract for their
services, thus thwarting homeowners' attempts to sue for breach of contract
when fraud becomes apparent;



 



   E.   California state law currently regulates the activities of
people who offer to arrange for services purporting, among other things, to
cure mortgage defaults after a property is in foreclosure as evidenced by the
recording of a Notice of Default pursuant to California Civil Code Section
2924, but there exists no state regulation of such people who offer or
provide such services prior to the recording of a Notice of Default; and



 



   F.   It is in the public interest that the activities of people who
promise to attempt to prevent foreclosure prior to the recording of a Notice
of Default be regulated.  Furthermore, in order to protect homeowners from
the actions of unscrupulous people who falsely promise to attempt to prevent
foreclosure, remedies must be provided where unlawful activity has occurred.



 



   G.   This crisis is only expected to worsen in the upcoming months
as many adjustable rate mortgages are scheduled to be reset to higher
interest rates prompting a series of new foreclosures in the City of Los
Angeles while, at the same time, there are unprecedented and well-publicized
efforts to encourage homeowners to attempt to modify their mortgages to
affordable levels.



 



   H.   The City Council enacts this Article as an urgency ordinance
pursuant to Charter Section 253 to prevent the victimization of people who
want to modify the terms of their existing mortgages in order to make their
homes more affordable and reduce the likelihood of going into default and,
thus, preserve public peace, health and safety.



 



 



SEC. 47.103.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   For purposes of this Article, the following terms and phrases shall
have the meanings set forth herein, unless the context clearly indicates a
different meaning.  Singular references also include plural and derivative
uses of defined terms where capitalized.



 



   A.   Contract. Contract means any written agreement, or any term
thereof, between a Mortgage Modification Consultant and an Owner for the
rendition of any Service as defined in this Section.



 



   B.   Mortgage Modification Consultant.



 



   (1)   Mortgage Modification Consultant means any Person who makes
any solicitation, representation, or offer to any Owner to perform for
compensation or who, for compensation, performs any service which the
Mortgage Modification Consultant in any manner represents will do any of the
following:



 



   (a)   Contact or negotiate with any beneficiary or mortgagee for the
purposes of modifying the interest rate, principal balance, or terms of any
loan prior to the recording of a Notice of Default.



 



   (b)   Prevent the recording of a Notice of Default.



 



   (c)   Obtain any forbearance from any beneficiary or mortgagee prior
to the recording of a Notice of Default.



 



   (d)   Obtain any waiver of an acceleration clause contained in any
promissory notice or contract secured by a deed of trust or mortgage on a
Residence or contained in that deed of trust or mortgage prior to the
recording of a Notice of Default.



 



   (e)   Assist an Owner to obtain a loan or advance of funds to cure a
mortgage default where the property is not the subject of a recorded Notice
of Default.



 



   (f)   Avoid or ameliorate the impairment of an Owner's credit
resulting from the threatened recording of a Notice of Default.



 



   (g)   Save an Owner's residence from a threatened foreclosure.



 



   (2)   Mortgage Modification Consultant does not include any Person
identified as exempt from the definition of "Foreclosure consultant" by
Subsection (b) of Section 2945.1 of the California Civil Code.



 



   C.   Notice of Default.  Notice of Default means a notice that is
recorded pursuant to the provisions of California Civil Code Section 2924.



 



   D.   Owner.  Owner means the record title owner of residential real
property located in the City of Los Angeles.



 



   E.   Person.  Person means any individual, partnership,
corporation, limited liability company, association, or other entity, however
organized.



 



   F.   Residence.  Residence means residential real property,
consisting of one or more dwelling units, one of which the Owner occupies as
his or her principal place of residence, encumbered by a loan secured by a
deed of trust the terms of which the Owner wishes to modify in order to
reduce or fix the payments thereon, but is not the subject of a recorded
Notice of Default.



 



   G.   Service.  Service means and includes, but is not limited to,
any of the following:



 



   (1)   Debt, budget, or financial counseling of any type.



 



   (2)   Receiving money for the purpose of distributing it to
creditors in payment or partial payment of any obligation secured by a lien
on a Residence but prior to the recording of a Notice of Default on the
Residence.



 



   (3)   Contacting creditors on behalf of an Owner of a Residence but
prior to the recording of a Notice of Default on the Residence.



 



   (4)   Arranging or attempting to arrange for an extension of the
period within which the Owner of a Residence may cure his or her default
prior to the recording of a Notice of Default.



 



   (5)   Advising the filing of any document or assisting in any manner
in the preparation of any document for filing with any bankruptcy court on
behalf of an Owner of a Residence.



 



   (6)   Giving any advice, explanation or instruction to an Owner of a
Residence which in any manner relates to the cure of an existing or
threatened default in, or in an obligation secured by a lien on, the Owner's
Residence, or the postponement or avoidance of the recording of a Notice of
Default for the Owner's Residence.



 



 



SEC. 47.104.  RIGHT OF CANCELLATION.



 



   A.   In addition to any other right under law to rescind a contract,
an owner has the right to cancel a Contract until midnight of the seventh
calendar day after the day on which the Owner signs a Contract.



 



   B.   Cancellation occurs when the Owner gives written notice of
cancellation to the Mortgage Modification Consultant by mail at the address
specified in the Contract, or by facsimile or electronic mail at the number
or address identified in the Contract.



 



   C.   Notice of cancellation, if given by mail, is effective when
deposited in the mail properly addressed with the postage prepaid.  If given
by facsimile or electronic mail, notice of cancellation is effective when
successfully transmitted.



 



   D.   Notice of cancellation given by the Owner need not take the
particular form as provided with the Contract and, however expressed, is
effective if it indicates the intention of the Owner not to be bound by the
Contract.



 



 



SEC. 47.105.  CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS.



 



   A.   Every Contract shall be in writing and shall fully disclose the
exact nature of the Mortgage Modification Consultant's services and the total
amount and terms of compensation.



 



   B.   The Contract shall be written in the same language as
principally used by the Mortgage Modification Consultant to describe his or
her services or to negotiate the Contract.  In addition, the Mortgage
Modification Consultant shall provide the Owner, before the Owner signs the
Contract, with a copy of a completed Contract written in any other language
used in any communication between the Mortgage Modification Consultant and
the Owner, and in any language described in Subdivision (b) of California
Civil Code Section 1632 if requested by the Owner.  If English is the
language principally used by the Mortgage Modification Consultant to describe
the Mortgage Modification Consultant's services or to negotiate the Contract,
the Mortgage Modification Consultant shall notify the Owner orally and in
writing before the Owner signs the Contract that the Owner has the right to
ask for a completed copy of the Contract in a language described in
California Civil Code Section 1632.



 



   C.   The Contract shall be dated and signed by the Owner, and shall
contain next to the space reserved for the Owner's signature a conspicuous
statement in a size equal to at least 14-point boldface type the following
language:



 




NOTICE REQUIRED BY THE
CITY OF LOS ANGELES




 



   You, the owner, may cancel this transaction at any time prior to
midnight of the seventh calendar day after you sign this contract. 
Cancellation occurs when you give written notice of cancellation to the other
party to this contract at the party's address identified in this contract, or
by facsimile or electronic mail at the number or address identified in this
contract.



 



   It is not necessary to pay a third party to arrange for a loan
modification or other form of forbearance from your mortgage lender or
servicer.  You may call your lender directly to ask for a change in your
loan terms.  HUD approved nonprofit housing counseling agencies also offer
these and other forms of borrower assistance free of charge.  A list of
nonprofit housing counseling agencies approved by the United States
Department of Housing and Urban Development is available from your local HUD
office.



 



   You may also reach HUD approved counselors through the Home Ownership
Preservation Foundation.



 



   D.   The Contract shall contain on the first page, in a type size no
smaller than that generally used in the body of the document, each of the
following:



 



   (1)   The name, mailing address, electronic mail address, and
facsimile number of the Mortgage Modification Consultant to which the notice
of cancellation is to be mailed.



 



   (2)   The date the Owner signed the Contract.



 



   E.   The Contract shall be accompanied by a completed form in
duplicate, captioned "Notice of Cancellation", which shall be attached to the
Contract, shall be easily detachable, and shall contain in type at least
14-point type the following statement written in the same language that was
used in the Contract:



 




"NOTICE OF CANCELLATION."




 



   F.   The Mortgage Modification Consultant shall provide the Owner
with a copy of the Contract and the attached notice of cancellation.  An
Owner's use of the notice of cancellation is optional.  This section is in
no way intended to limit the application of Subsection D. of Section 47.104.



 



   G.   Until the Mortgage Modification Consultant has complied with
this Section, the Owner may cancel the Contract.



 



 



SEC. 47.106.  VIOLATIONS.



 



   It shall be a violation of this Article for a Mortgage Modification
Consultant to do any of the following: 



 



   A.   Perform any Service without a written Contract.



 



   B.   Claim, demand, charge, collect, or receive any compensation
until after the Mortgage Modification Consultant has fully performed each and
every Service the Mortgage Modification Consultant Contracted to perform or
represented that he or she would perform.



 



   C.   Take any wage assignment, any lien of any type on real or
personal property, or other security to secure the payment of compensation. 
That security shall be void and unenforceable.



 



   D.   Receive any consideration from any third party in connection
with Services rendered to an Owner unless that consideration is fully
disclosed to the Owner at the time the Contract is entered into.



 



   E.   Acquire any interest in the Residence from an Owner with whom
the Mortgage Modification Consultant has Contracted.  Any interest acquired
in violation of this Subsection shall be void, provided that nothing herein
shall affect or defeat the title of a bona fide purchaser or encumbrancer for
value and without notice of a violation of this Article.  Knowledge that the
property was a Residence does not constitute notice of a violation of this
Article.  This Subsection may not be deemed to abrogate any duty of inquiry
that exists as to rights or interests of persons in possession of a Residence.



 



   F.   Take any power of attorney from an Owner for any purpose.



 



   G.   Induce or attempt to induce any Owner to enter into a Contract
that does not comply in all respects with Sections 47.104 and 47.105.



 



 



SEC. 47.107.  WAIVER.



 



   Any waiver by an Owner of any or all of the provisions of this Article
shall be deemed void and unenforceable as contrary to public policy.  Any
attempt by a Mortgage Modification Consultant to induce an Owner to waive any
or all of the rights provided by this Article shall be deemed a violation of
this Article.



 



 



SEC. 47.108.  OWNER'S RIGHT OF ACTION.



 



   In addition to all remedies allowed by law, an Owner may bring an
action against a Mortgage Modification Consultant for any violation of this
Article, and a Mortgage Modification Consultant may be liable in a civil
action for damages up to  three times the amount of actual damages,
attorneys' fees and costs of litigation.



 



 



SEC. 47.109.  LIABILITY OF MORTGAGE FORECLOSURE CONSULTANT FOR DAMAGES
RESULTING FROM STATEMENTS MADE, OR ACTS BY, A REPRESENTATIVE.



 



   A.   A Mortgage Modification Consultant is liable for all damages
resulting from any statement made or act committed by the Mortgage
Modification Consultant's representative in any manner connected with any of
the following:



 



   (1)   the Mortgage Modification Consultant's performance, offer to
perform, or Contract to perform any Service.



 



   (2)   the Mortgage Modification Consultant's receipt of any
consideration or property from or on behalf of an Owner.



 



   (3)   performance of any act prohibited by this Article.



 



   B.   "Representative" for the purposes of this Section means a
Person who in any manner solicits, induces, or causes any of the following:



 



   (1)   any Owner to Contract with a Mortgage Modification Consultant.




   (2)   any Owner to pay any consideration or transfer title to the
Residence threatened with foreclosure to the Mortgage Modification Consultant.



 



   (3)   any member of the Owner's family or household to induce or
cause any Owner to pay any consideration or transfer title to the Residence
to the Mortgage Modification Consultant.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 8
MUNICIPAL LOBBYING



 




(Repealed and Re-added by Ord. No. 169,916, Eff. 8/10/94.)




 



 



Section



48.01   Title and Findings.



48.02   Definitions.



48.03   Exemptions.



48.04   Prohibitions.



48.05   Record-keeping Responsibilities.



48.06   Filing Methods.



48.07   Registration.



48.08   Disclosure Reports.



48.08.5   Copies of Solicitations.



48.08.6   Lobbying Disclosure – Political Contributions.



48.08.7   Lobbying Disclosure – Fundraising Activity.



48.08.8   Lobbying Disclosure – Written Communications to Neighborhood
Councils.



48.09   Compliance Measures and Enforcement.



48.10   Ethics Commission Reports.



48.11   Severability.



 



 



SEC. 48.01.  TITLE AND FINDINGS.



   (Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 169,916, Eff. 8/10/94.)



 



   A.   Title.  This article shall be known and may be cited as the
Los Angeles Municipal Lobbying Ordinance.



 



   B.   Findings.  The following findings are adopted in conjunction
with the enactment of this article:



 



   1.   City government functions to serve the needs of all citizens.



 



   2.   The citizens of the City of Los Angeles have a right to know
the identity of interests which attempt to influence decisions of City
government, as well as the means employed by those interests.



 



   3.   All persons engaged in compensated lobbying activities aimed at
influencing decisions by City government must, when so engaged, be subject to
the same regulations, restrictions and requirements, regardless of their
background, training or other professional qualifications or license.



 



   4.   Complete public disclosure of the full range of activities by
and financing of lobbyists and those who employ their services is essential
to the maintenance of citizen confidence in the integrity of local government.



 



   5.   It is in the public interest to ensure that lobbyists do not
misrepresent facts, their positions, or attempt to deceive officials through
false communications, do not place City officials under personal obligation
to themselves or their clients, and do not represent that they can control
the actions of City officials.



 



   6.   It is in the public interest to adopt these amendments to the
City’s regulations of lobbyists to ensure adequate and effective disclosure
of information about efforts to lobby City government.



 



 



SEC. 48.02.  DEFINITIONS.



   (Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 169,916, Eff. 8/10/94.)



 



   The following terms used in this article shall have the meanings set
forth below.  Other terms used in this article shall have the meanings set
forth in the California Political Reform Act of 1974, as amended, and in the
regulations of the California Fair Political Practices Commission, as
amended, if defined therein.



 



   “Activity expense” means any payment, including any gift, made to
or directly benefiting any City official or member of his or her immediate
family, made by a lobbyist, lobbying firm, or lobbyist employer.



 



   “Administrative proceeding” (Deleted by Ord. No. 172,479, Eff.
4/10/99, Oper. 4/1/99.)



 



   “Agency” means the City of Los Angeles or any department, bureau,
office, board, commission, other agency of the City, or any other government
agency, required to adopt a conflict of interest code subject to City Council
approval, and includes the City’s Community Redevelopment Agency and the
Los Angeles City Housing Authority.



 



   “At the behest” means under the control of, at the direction of, in
cooperation, consultation, coordination, or concert with, at the request or
suggestion of, or with the express prior consent of any elective City officer
or candidate for elective City office.  A donation to a religious,
charitable, or other nonprofit organization is not made at the behest of an
elective City officer or candidate if the donation is solicited through a
newspaper publication, through radio, television, or other mass media, or
through a suggestion made to the entire audience at a public gathering.  A
donation to a religious, charitable, or other nonprofit organization is not
made at the behest of an elective City officer or candidate solely because
the name of the officer or candidate is listed with other names on written
materials used to request donations or the officer or candidate makes a
speech to the entire audience or is honored and given an award at an event
sponsored by the organization.  (Amended by Ord. No. 178,356, Eff. 3/12/07.)



 



   “Attempting to influence”means promoting, supporting, opposing or
seeking to modify or delay any action on municipal legislation by any means,
including but not limited to providing or using persuasion, information,
statistics, analyses or studies.  A person attempts to influence municipal
legislation when he or she engages in lobbying activities for the purpose of
influencing a decision.  (Amended by Ord. No. 172,479, Eff. 4/10/99, Oper.
4/1/99.)



 



   “City official” means any elective or appointed City officer,
member, employee or consultant (who qualifies as a public official within the
meaning of the Political Reform Act) of any agency, who, as part of his or
her official duties, participates in the consideration of any municipal
legislation other than in a purely clerical, secretarial or ministerial
capacity.  (Amended by Ord. No. 175,432, Eff. 9/28/03, Oper. 1/1/04.)



 



   “Client” means both  (1)  the person who compensates a lobbyist
or lobbying firm for the purpose of attempting to influence municipal
legislation and  (2)  the person on whose behalf a lobbyist or lobbying
firm attempts to influence such municipal legislation, even if the lobbyist
or lobbying firm is compensated by another person for such representation. 
However, if a lobbyist or lobbying firm represents a membership organization
and individual members of that organization, an individual member is not a
client solely because the member is individually represented by the lobbyist
or lobbying firm unless the member makes a payment for such representation in
addition to usual membership fees.



 



   “Client,Administrative” (Deleted by Ord. No. 172,479, Eff. 4/10/99,
Oper. 4/1/99.)



 



   “Compensated Services” means services for which compensation was
paid during a reporting period or for which the lobbyist or lobbying firm
became entitled to compensation during that period.



 



   “Controlled committee” means any committee controlled by an
elective City officer or candidate for any elective City office, including
any campaign, officeholder, legal defense fund, or ballot measure
committee.  (Added by Ord. No. 175,432, Eff. 9/28/03, Oper. 1/1/04.)



 



   “Direct communication”means appearing as a witness before, talking
to (either by telephone or in person), corresponding with, or answering
questions or inquiries from, any City official or employee, either personally
or through an agent who acts under one’s direct supervision, control or
direction.  (Added by Ord. No. 172,479, Eff. 4/10/99, Oper. 4/1/99.)



 



   “Donation” means a payment for which full and adequate
consideration is not received.  (Added by Ord. No. 175,432, Eff. 9/28/03,
Oper. 1/1/04.)



 



   “Elective City officer” means the Mayor, City Attorney, Controller
and Member of the City Council.  (Amended by Ord. No. 175,432, Eff. 9/28/03,
Oper. 1/1/04.)



 



   “Elective Officer” means any person who is a City Council Member,
City Attorney, Controller or Mayor, whether appointed or elected.  (Added by
Ord. No. 175,432, Eff. 9/28/03, Oper. 1/1/04.)



 



   “Fundraiser” means an individual who receives compensation to
engage in fundraising activity as defined in this section.  (Added by Ord.
No. 175,432, Eff. 9/28/03, Oper. 1/1/04.)



 



   “Fundraising activity” means soliciting a contribution or hosting
or sponsoring a fundraising event or hiring a fundraiser or contractor to
conduct any event designed primarily for political fundraising at which
contributions for an elective City officer, candidate for elective City
office, or any of his or her controlled committees are solicited, delivered
or made.  (Added by Ord. No. 175,432, Eff. 9/28/03, Oper. 1/1/04.)



 



   “Host or sponsor” means to provide the use of a home or business to
hold a political fundraising event without charging market value for the use
of that location; to ask more than 25 persons to attend the event; to pay for
at least a majority of the costs of the event; or to provide the candidate,
campaign, committee and/or fundraiser more than 25 names to be used for
invitations to the event.  (Added by Ord. No. 175,432, Eff. 9/28/03, Oper.
1/1/04.)



 



   “Lobbying activities” includes the following and similar
compensated conduct when that conduct is related to a direct communication to
influence any municipal legislation:



 



   (1)   engaging in, either personally or through an agent, written or
oral direct communication with a City official;



 



   (2)   drafting ordinances, resolutions or regulations;



 



   (3)   providing advice or recommending strategy to a client or
others;



 



   (4)   research, investigation and information gathering;



 



   (5)   seeking to influence the position of a third party on
municipal legislation or an issue related to municipal legislation by any
means, including but not limited to engaging in community, public or press
relations activities; and



 



   (6)   attending or monitoring City meetings, hearings or other
events.



 



(Added by Ord. No. 172,479, Eff. 4/10/99, Oper. 4/1/99.)



 



   “Lobbying entity” means a lobbyist, lobbying firm or lobbyist
employer, as defined in this article.  (Added by Ord. No. 175,432, Eff.
9/28/03, Oper. 1/1/04.)



 



   “Lobbying firm” means any entity, including an individual lobbyist,
which receives or becomes entitled to receive $1,000 or more in monetary or
in-kind compensation for engaging in lobbying activities (either personally
or through its agents) during any consecutive three-month period, for the
purpose of attempting to influence municipal legislation on behalf of any
other person, provided any partner, owner, shareholder, officer or employee
of the entity qualifies as a lobbyist.  Compensation does not include
reimbursement of or payment for reasonable travel expenses.  An entity
receives compensation within the meaning of this definition whether or not
the compensation is received solely for activities regulated by this article
or is received for other activities as well; however, only that portion of
compensation received for the lobbying activities shall count toward the
qualification threshold.  An entity "becomes entitled to receive
compensation" when the entity agrees to provide services regulated by this
article, or performs those services, whether or not payment is contingent on
the accomplishment of the client's purposes.  (Amended by Ord. No. 178,064,
Eff. 1/15/07.)



 



   “Lobbyist” (Amended by Ord. No. 178,064, Eff. 1/15/07.) means any
individual who is compensated to spend 30 or more hours in any consecutive
three-month period engaged in lobbying activities which include at least one
direct communication with a City official or employee, conducted either
personally or through agents, for the purpose of attempting to influence
municipal legislation on behalf of any person.



 



   Compensation does not include reimbursement of or payment for
reasonable travel expenses.  A person receives compensation within the
meaning of this definition whether or not the compensation is received solely
for activities regulated by this article or is received for both lobbying
activities and other activities as well.  However, only the compensation for
the lobbying activities shall be calculated to determine whether an
individual qualifies as a lobbyist.  An individual "becomes entitled to
receive compensation" when the individual or the entity in which the
individual is an employee, partner, owner, shareholder or officer, agrees to
provide services regulated by this article, or performs those services,
regardless of whether payment is contingent on the accomplishment of the
client's purposes.



 



   A lobbyist includes a person who owns an investment in a business
entity if that person attempts to influence municipal legislation on behalf
of the business entity and if the person acquires the investment as
compensation for his or her lobbying services or in contemplation of
performing those services.



 



   “Lobbyist employer” means an entity, other than a lobbying firm,
that employs a lobbyist in-house to lobby on its behalf.



 



   “Major filer”means any person who makes payments or incurs
expenditures totaling $5,000 or more during any calendar quarter for public
relations, media relations, advertising, public outreach, research,
investigation, reports, analyses, studies, or similar activities, for the
purpose of attempting to influence action on any proposed or pending matter
of municipal legislation, if these payments or expenditures are not required
to be reported on a lobbyist or lobbying firm quarterly report.  A “major
filer” does not include a lobbyist, lobbyist employer, or lobbying firm. 
Expenditures and payments for regularly published newsletters or other
routine communications between an organization and its members shall not be
counted for the purpose of this definition.  (Amended by Ord. No. 172,479,
Eff. 4/10/99, Oper. 4/1/99.)



 



   “Municipal legislation”means any legislative or administrative
matter proposed or pending before any agency (as defined in this article),
including but not limited to those involving the granting, denial,
revocation, restriction or modification of a license, permit or entitlement
for use (including all land use permits) if the Mayor, the City Council, any
of its committees, any agency board, commission, committee, or general
manager, or any agency officer or employee charged by law with holding a
hearing and making a decision, is charged by law with making a final decision
on the matter.  However, “municipal legislation” does not include any of
the following:



 



   (1)   A request for advice or for an interpretation of laws,
regulations, City approvals or policies, or a direct response to an
enforcement proceeding with the City Ethics Commission.



 



   (2)   Any ministerial action.  An action is ministerial if it does
not require the City official or employees involved to exercise discretion
concerning any outcome or course of action.



 



   (3)   Any action relating to the establishment, amendment,
administration, implementation or interpretation of a collective bargaining
agreement or memorandum of understanding between an agency and a recognized
employee organization, or a proceeding before the Civil Service Commission or
the Employee Relations Board.  Further, it does not include management
decisions as to the working conditions of represented employees that clearly
relate to the terms of such collective bargaining agreement or memorandum of
understanding.  Nevertheless, “municipal legislation” does include any
action relating to collective bargaining taken by the City Council, any of
its committees or members (including the staffs of such members), or by the
Mayor or his or her office.



 



   (4)   Preparation or compilation of any radius map, vicinity map,
plot plan, site plan, property owners or tenants list, abutting property
owners list, photographs of property, proof of ownership or copy of lease, or
neighbor signatures required to be submitted to the City Planning Department.



 



(Amended by Ord. No. 172,479, Eff. 4/10/99, Oper. 4/1/99.)



 



   “Person” means any individual, business entity, trust, corporation,
association, committee, or any other organization or group of persons acting
in concert.



 



   “Solicit” means to ask, personally or through an agent, that
another person make a contribution to an elective City officer or candidate
for City office, or to his or her controlled committee, including allowing
one's signature to be used on a written request for funds.  For purposes of
this article, a lobbying entity solicits a contribution only when the
lobbying entity does so (i) at the behest of the elective City officer or
candidate for elective City office, or his or her campaign treasurer,
campaign manager, or member of his or her fundraising committee, or (ii) if
the lobbying entity has informed the candidate or officer that the person is
soliciting the contributions.  A person does not solicit, however, by making
a request for funds publicly to at least a majority of persons who attend any
public gathering, or by making a request that appears published in a
newspaper, on radio or television.  (Added by Ord. No. 175,432, Eff.
9/28/03, Oper. 1/1/04.)



 



 



SEC. 48.03.  EXEMPTIONS.



   (Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 169,916, Eff. 8/10/94.)



 



   The following persons are exempt from the requirements of this article:



 



   A.   Any public official acting in his or her official capacity, and
any government employee acting within the scope of his or her employment.



 



   B.   A newspaper or other regularly published periodical, radio or
television station or network, including any individual who owns, publishes
or is employed by such newspaper, periodical or station or network, when, in
the ordinary course of its business, it publishes or broadcasts news,
editorials or other comments, or paid advertising, which directly or
indirectly attempts to influence action on municipal legislation.  This
exemption does not apply to any other action by any such newspaper,
periodical, station or network, or by any such person, to attempt to
influence municipal legislation, if such activity is otherwise regulated by
this article.



 



   C.   A person acting without any compensation or consideration other
than reimbursement or payment of reasonable travel expenses.



 



   D.   Any person whose only activity is submitting a bid on a
competitively bid contract, submitting a written response to or participating
in an oral interview for a request for proposals or qualifications, or
negotiating the terms of a written agreement with any City agency if selected
pursuant to that bid or request for proposals or qualifications.  Except
with regard to persons covered by Subsections E and F, this exemption shall
not apply to any person who attempts to influence the action of the Mayor or
Mayor’s staff, any member of the City Council or their staffs, or any board
or commission member with regard to any such contract.



 



   E.   Any organization exempt from federal taxation pursuant to
Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, which receives funding from
any federal, state or local government agency for the purpose of representing
the interests of indigent persons and whose primary purpose is to provide
direct services to those persons, if the individual or individuals
represented by the organization before any City agency provide no payment to
the organization for that representation.  This exemption shall not apply to
direct contacts with  a City official in other than a publicly noticed
meeting, for the purpose of attempting to influence a City decision with
regard to any City funding which the organization is seeking.



 



   F.   Any person employed by an organization described in Subsection
E with respect to his or her activities as an employee of the organization.



 



 



SEC. 48.04.  PROHIBITIONS.



   (Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 169,916, Eff. 8/10/94.)



 



   No lobbyist or lobbying firm subject to the requirements of this
article shall:



 



   A.   Do any act with the purpose and intent of placing any City
official under personal obligation to the lobbyist, the lobbying firm, or to
the lobbyist’s or firm’s employer or client.



 



   B.   Fraudulently deceive or attempt to deceive any City official
with regard to any material fact pertinent to any pending or proposed
municipal legislation.



 



   C.   Cause or influence the introduction of any municipal
legislation for the purpose of thereafter being employed or retained to
secure its passage or defeat.



 



   D.   Cause any communication to be sent to any City official in the
name of any non-existent person or in the name of any existing person without
the consent of such person.



 



   E.   Make or arrange for any payment to a City official, or act as
an agent or intermediary in making any such payment by any other person, if
the arrangement or the payment would violate any provision of the City’s
Governmental Ethics Ordinance (Los Angeles Municipal Code Section 49.5.1, et
seq.).



 



 



SEC. 48.05.  RECORD-KEEPING RESPONSIBILITIES.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 175,432, Eff. 9/28/03, Oper. 1/1/04.)



 



   A.   Lobbying entities and major filers shall prepare and retain
detailed records (including all books, papers and other documents) needed to
comply with the requirements of this article.  Treasurers and fundraisers
for elective City officeholders and City candidates, or for any elective City
officer’s or City candidate’s controlled committees shall prepare and
retain detailed contribution activity records for any contributions received
as a result of fundraising activity engaged in by a lobbyist, lobbying firm
or lobbyist employer, as defined by this article.  These records shall be
retained for not less than four years.



 



   B.   If a lobbying entity engages in fundraising activities as
defined in Section 48.02 of this Code at the behest of a candidate or
officeholder running for elective City office, the lobbying entity shall
maintain records detailing any contributions that they know or have reason to
know resulted from the fundraising activities.



 



   C.   If an officeholder or a candidate running for elective City
office contracts with a lobbying entity to engage in fundraising activity as
described in Section 48.02 of this Code, the committee treasurer and
fundraiser shall maintain records detailing any contributions that they know
or have reason to know resulted from the fundraising activities.  The
treasurer and fundraiser shall make the records available to the lobbying
entity upon request of the lobbying entity.



 



   D.   If a lobbying entity delivers or sends written communications
to a certified neighborhood council in an attempt to influence municipal
legislation as described in Section 48.08.8 of this Article, the lobbying
entity shall prepare and maintain detailed records of these written
communications for not less than four years.  (Added by Ord. No. 176,034,
Eff. 7/26/04.)



 



 



SEC. 48.06.  FILING METHODS.



   (Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 182,360, Eff. 1/30/13.)



 



   A.   All registrations, reports, and other filings required by this
Article must be submitted under penalty of perjury by the person who is
required to file and must be filed in a format prescribed by the Ethics
Commission.  The Ethics Commission must provide public access to all filings.



 



   B.   Lobbying entities and persons who qualify as lobbying entities
must file registrations, quarterly reports, terminations and amendments to
those filings electronically.



 



   C.   If an electronic filing is required, the Ethics Commission must
provide a unique identifier to the person who is required to file, to be used
in place of a physical signature for submitting and verifying data under
penalty of perjury.  All electronic filings are presumed to be filed under
penalty of perjury by the person required to file.



 



   D.   If a paper filing is required, it must contain the physical
signature of the person who is required to file.  A document is considered
filed on the earlier of the date of receipt by the Ethics Commission or the
date of the postmark if it is mailed and bears the correct address and
postage.



 



 



SEC. 48.06.1.  ONLINE FILING OF LOBBYING REGISTRATION AND DISCLOSURE
STATEMENTS.



   (Repealed by Ord. No. 182,360, Eff. 1/30/13.)



 



 



SEC. 48.07.  REGISTRATION.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 172,479, Eff. 4/10/99, Oper. 4/1/99.)



 



   A.   Requirement.  An individual who qualifies as a lobbyist shall
register with the City Ethics Commission within 10 days after the end of the
calendar month in which the individual qualifies as a lobbyist.  A person,
including an individual lobbyist, shall register with the City Ethics
Commission as a lobbying firm within 10 days after the end of the calendar
month in which a partner, owner, shareholder, officer or employee qualifies
as a lobbyist.  If a person is not registered as a lobbyist or lobbying
firm, but is performing acts which would require that person to so register,
that person may continue to act as a lobbyist or lobbying firm so long as the
person registers with the City Ethics Commission within 10 days after the
person knew or should have known of the obligation to register.  A lobbyist
or lobbying firm shall register each client on whose behalf or from which the
lobbyist or lobbying firm receives or becomes entitled to receive $250 or
more in a calendar quarter for engaging in lobbying activities related to
attempting to influence municipal legislation.



 



   B.   Duration of Status.  A person who registers as a lobbyist or
lobbying firm shall retain that status through December 31 of that year
unless and until that person terminates the status as set forth below.



 



   C.   Registration Fees.  Every lobbyist shall pay an annual
registration fee of $450 plus $75 for each client on whose behalf or from
which the lobbyist receives or becomes entitled to receive $250 or more in a
calendar quarter.  Persons who initially register during the last quarter of
a calendar year (October through December) shall pay prorated registration
fees of $337 for each lobbyist plus $56 for each client.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 175,028, Eff. 2/5/03.)



 



   D.   Contents of Registration Statements - Lobbyists.  Registration
statements of lobbyists shall contain the following:



 



   1.   The lobbyist's name, business address, business email, and
business telephone number.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,360, Eff. 1/30/13.)



 



   2.   The lobbying firm, if any, of which the lobbyist is an
employee, partner, officer or owner.



 



   3.   If the lobbyist is not an employee, partner, officer or owner
of a lobbying firm, the name, address and telephone number of the lobbyist's
employer.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,360, Eff. 1/30/13.)



 



   4.   Each City agency that the lobbyist has the authority to attempt
to influence on behalf of any client or employer.



 



   5.   A statement that the lobbyist has reviewed and understands the
requirements of this article.



 



   6.   Any other information required by regulation of the City Ethics
Commission, consistent with the purposes and provisions of this article.



 



   E.   Contents of Registration Statements - Lobbying Firms. 
Registration statements of lobbying firms (including individual contract
lobbyists) shall contain the following:



 



   1.   The name, address, email, and telephone number of the firm. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 182,360, Eff. 1/30/13.)



 



   2.   The name of each lobbyist who is a partner, owner, shareholder,
officer or employee of the firm.



 



   3.   For each client on whose behalf or from which the firm received
or became entitled to receive $250 in compensation during the calendar
quarter for engaging in lobbying activities related to attempting to
influence municipal legislation within the meaning of this Article: 
(Renumbered and Amended by Ord. No. 182,360, Eff. 1/30/13.)



 



   (a)    The client's name, business or residence address, and
business or residence telephone number.



 



   (b)    The period during which the representation will occur.



 



   (c)    The item or items of municipal legislation for which the firm
was retained to represent the client, or, if no specific items of municipal
legislation for which the firm was retained to represent the client can be
identified, a description of the types of municipal legislation for which the
firm was retained to represent the client.



 



   (d)    Each City agency that the lobbying firm has the authority to
attempt to influence on behalf of the client.



 



   (e)    In the case of a lobbyist who is an individual contract
lobbyist, a statement that he or she has reviewed and understands the
requirements of this Article.



 



   (f)    The name, address, email, and telephone number of the person
responsible for preparing the statement.



 



   (g)    Any other information required by regulation of the City
Ethics Commission, consistent with the purposes and provisions of this
Article.



 



   F.   Amendments to Registrations.  Lobbyists and lobbying firms
shall file amendments to their registration statements within 10 days of any
change in information required to be set forth on the registration
statement.  (Renumbered and Former Subsection F. deleted by Ord. No.
182,360, Eff. 1/30/13.)



 



   G.   Termination.  Any person registered under this Article shall
file a termination statement with the City Ethics Commission within 20 days
after ceasing all activity governed by this Article.  (Renumbered and
Amended by Ord. No. 182,360, Eff. 1/30/13.)



 



   H.   Education Requirement.  Every individual who is required to
register as a lobbyist shall attend a City lobbying information session
conducted by the City Ethics Commission no less than once every two calendar
years, according to the following schedule:  (Renumbered by Ord. No.
182,360, Eff. 1/30/13.)



 



   (1)   An individual who has not registered as a lobbyist in the
immediately preceding two calendar years shall attend a City lobbying
information session within six months of his or her registration date as a
lobbyist.



 



   (2)   A registered lobbyist who did not attend a City lobbying
information session during the previous calendar year shall attend a City
lobbying session by the end of the current calendar year.



 



   (3)   A registered lobbyist who attends a City lobbying information
session during the current calendar year is not required to attend a City
lobbying information session during the following calendar year.



 



 



SEC. 48.08.  DISCLOSURE REPORTS.



   (Title Amended by Ord. No. 175,432, Eff. 9/28/03, Oper. 1/1/04.)



 



   A.   Reporting Requirement.  Every lobbyist, lobbying firm,
lobbyist employer and major filer shall file the quarterly disclosure reports
required by this Section on or before the last day of the month following
each calendar quarter.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,360, Eff. 1/30/13.)



 



   1.   All lobbyists and lobbying firms shall file quarterly reports
for every calendar quarter during which they retain that status.  An
individual who qualifies both as a lobbyist and lobbying firm shall file only
a lobbying firm quarterly report. Lobbyist employers shall file quarterly
reports for every calendar quarter during which any individual employed by
that employer retains the status as lobbyist.  Information required to be
disclosed concerning compensation received or expenditures made for lobbying
shall be disclosed either by the lobbyist or by his or her lobbying firm or
employer.



 



   2.   Major filers shall file quarterly reports for every calendar
quarter during which they made qualifying payments or incurred qualifying
expenditures totaling $5,000 or more.



 



   3.   Quarterly reports shall disclose all required information for
the calendar quarter immediately prior to the month in which the report is
required to be filed.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,360, Eff. 1/30/13.)



 



   B.   Quarterly Reports by Lobbyists - Contents.  Quarterly reports
by lobbyists shall contain the following information:



 



   1.   The lobbyist’s name, business address and business telephone
number.



 



   2.   The lobbying firm, if any, of which the lobbyist is a partner,
owner, shareholder, officer or employee.



 



   3.   If the lobbyist is not a partner, officer or owner of a
lobbying firm, the name, address and telephone number of the lobbyist’s
employer.



 



   4.   The date, amount and description of each activity expense of
$25 or more made by the lobbyist during the reporting period, the name and
title of the City official benefiting from the expense, the name and address
of the payee, and the client, if any, on whose behalf the expense was made. 
An activity expense shall be considered to be made on behalf of a client if
the client requested or authorized the expense or if the expense was made in
connection with an event at which the lobbyist attempted to influence the
official on behalf of the client.



 



   5.   The total amount of activity expenses made by the lobbyist
during the reporting period, whether or not itemized.



 



   6.   The name of any elective City officer, candidate for elective
City office, or any controlled committee of the officer or candidate to which
the lobbyist made contributions of $100 or more, or which were delivered by
the lobbyist, or in connection with which the lobbyist acted as an
intermediary during the reporting period, and the date and amount of the
contribution.  (Amended by Ord. No. 175,432, Eff. 9/28/03, Oper. 1/1/04.)



 



   7.   The name of any elective City officer, candidate for elective
City office, or any City controlled committee of the officer or candidate for
which the lobbyist engaged in any fundraising activity during the reporting
period, the date(s) of the activity and the amount of funds the lobbyist
knows or has reason to know were raised as a result of the activity.  (Added
by Ord. No. 175,432, Eff. 9/28/03, Oper. 1/1/04.)



 



   8.   The date and amount of one or more contributions aggregating
more than $1,000 made by the lobbyist at the behest of an elective City
officer or candidate for elective City office during the reporting period to
any and all controlled committees of any other elective City officer or
candidate for elective City office, the name and address of the payee, the
name of the elective City officer or candidate for elective City office who
made the behest and the date of the behest.  (Added by Ord. No. 175,432,
Eff. 9/28/03, Oper. 1/1/04.)



 



   9.   The date, amount and description of one or more donations
aggregating $1,000 or more made by the lobbyist at the behest of an elective
City officer or candidate for elective City office during the reporting
period to any religious, charitable or other nonprofit organization, the name
and address of the payee, the name of the elective City officer or candidate
for elective City office who made the behest and the date of the behest. 
(Added by Ord. No. 175,432, Eff. 9/28/03, Oper. 1/1/04.)



 



   10.   If, during the quarterly reporting period, the lobbyist
provided compensated services, including consulting services, to the campaign
of any candidate for elective City office, or to a campaign for or against
any City ballot measure, the name of the candidate, the elective City office
sought by the candidate, the ballot number or letter of the ballot measure,
the date of the election, the amount of compensation earned for the
compensated services, and a description of the nature of the services
provided.  Such information shall be reported if the lobbyist personally
provided the services, or if the services were provided by a business entity
in which the lobbyist owns at least a 10% investment, whether the
compensation was provided directly to the lobbyist or to such business
entity.  (Former Subdivision B.7. redesignated by Ord. No. 175,432, Eff.
9/28/03, Oper. 1/1/04.)



 



   11.   If, during the quarterly reporting period, the lobbyist
provided compensated services under contract with the City or with any City
agency, including consulting services, the amount of compensation received,
the agency for which the services were provided, a description or other
identification of the contract and the nature of the services provided. 
Such information shall be reported if the lobbyist personally provided the
services, or if the services were provided by a business entity in which the
lobbyist owns at least a 10% investment, whether the compensation was
provided directly to the lobbyist or to such business entity.  (Former
Subdivision B.8. redesignated by Ord. No. 175,432, Eff. 9/28/03, Oper.
1/1/04.)



 



   12.   Each City agency that the lobbyist attempted to influence. 
(Former Subdivision B.9. redesignated by Ord. No. 175,432, Eff. 9/28/03,
Oper. 1/1/04.)



 



   13.   Any other information required by regulation of the City
Ethics Commission, consistent with the purposes and provisions of this
article.  (Former Subdivision B.10. redesignated by Ord. No. 175,432, Eff.
9/28/03, Oper. 1/1/04.)



 



   C.   Quarterly Reports by Lobbying Firms - Contents.  Quarterly
reports by lobbying firms, including individual contract lobbyists, shall
contain the following information:  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,360, Eff.
1/30/13.)



 



   1.   The name, address, email, and telephone number of the firm.



 



   2.   The name of each lobbyist who is a partner, owner, shareholder,
officer or employee of the firm.



 



   3.   The name, address and telephone number of each client that is
required to be registered and was represented by the firm during the
reporting period; a description of each item of municipal legislation for
which the firm or its lobbyists represented the client during the reporting
period; the total amount of payments received by the firm from each client
(including all fees, reimbursements for expenses and other payments) during
the reporting period for such representation.



 



   4.   The total payments received from clients required to be
registered by the firm during the reporting period in connection with the
firm’s representation of clients on municipal legislation.



 



   5.   The date, amount and description of each activity expense of
$25 or more made by the lobbying firm during the reporting period, the name
and title of the City official benefiting from the expense, the name and
address of the payee, and the client, if any, on whose behalf the expense was
made.  An activity expense shall be considered to be made on behalf of a
client if the client requested or authorized the expense or if the expense
was made in connection with an event at which the lobbying firm attempted to
influence the official on behalf of the client.



 



   6.   The total amount of activity expenses made by the lobbying firm
during the reporting period, whether or not itemized.



 



   7.   The total amount of expenses incurred in connection with
attempts by the firm to influence municipal legislation.  These expenses
shall include:



 



   (a)   total payments to lobbyists employed by the firm;



 



   (b)   total payments to employees of the firm, other than lobbyists,
who engaged in attempts to influence municipal legislation during the
reporting period; and



 



   (c)   all expenses attributable to attempts to influence municipal
legislation, other than overhead, and other expenses that would not be
incurred but for the attempts to influence.  Each such expense of $5,000 or
more shall be itemized and described.



 



   8.   The name of any elective City officer, candidate for elective
City office, or any controlled committee of the officer or candidate to which
the lobbying firm made contributions of $100 or more, or which were delivered
by the lobbying firm, or in connection with which the lobbying firm acted as
an intermediary during the reporting period, and the date and amount of the
contribution.  (Amended by Ord. No. 175,432, Eff. 9/28/03, Oper. 1/1/04.)



 



   9.   The name of any elective City officer, candidate for elective
City office, or any City controlled committee of the officer or candidate for
which the lobbying firm engaged in any fundraising activity during the
reporting period, the date(s) of the activity and the amount of funds the
lobbying firm knows or has reason to know were raised as a result of the
activity.  (Added by Ord. No. 175,432, Eff. 9/28/03, Oper. 1/1/04.)



 



   10.   The date and amount of one or more contributions aggregating
more than $1,000 made by the lobbying firm at the behest of an elective City
officer or candidate for elective City office during the reporting period to
any and all controlled committees of any other elective City officer or
candidate for elective City office, the name and address of the payee, the
name of the elective City officer or candidate for elective City office who
made the behest and the date of the behest.  (Added by Ord. No. 175,432,
Eff. 9/28/03, Oper. 1/1/04.)



 



   11.   The date, amount and description of one or more donations
aggregating $1,000 or more made by the lobbying firm at the behest of an
elective City officer or candidate for elective City office during the
reporting period to any religious, charitable or other nonprofit
organization, the name and address of the payee, the name of the elective
City officer or candidate for elective City office who made the behest and
the date of the behest.  (Added by Ord. No. 175,432, Eff. 9/28/03, Oper.
1/1/04.)



 



   12.   If, during the quarterly reporting period, the lobbying firm
provided compensated services, including consulting services, to the campaign
of any candidate for elective City office, or to a campaign for or against
any City ballot measure, the name of the candidate, the elective City office
sought by the candidate, the ballot number or letter of the ballot measure,
the date of the election, the amount of compensation earned for the
compensated services and a description of the services provided.



 



   13.   If, during the quarterly reporting period, the lobbying firm
provided compensated services under contract with the City or with any
agency, including consulting services, the amount of compensation received,
the agency for which the services were provided, a description or other
identification of the contract and the nature of the services provided.  For
an individual contract lobbyist who qualifies as a lobbying firm, such
information shall be reported if the lobbyist personally provided the
services, or if the services were provided by a business entity in which the
lobbyist owns at least a 10% investment, regardless of whether the
compensation was provided directly to the lobbyist or to such business entity.



 



   14.   For an individual contract lobbyist who qualifies as a
lobbying firm, each City agency that the lobbyist attempted to influence.



 



   15.   The name, address, email, and telephone number of the person
responsible for preparing the report.



 



   16.   Any other information required by regulation of the City
Ethics Commission, consistent with the purposes and provisions of this
article.



 



   D.   Quarterly Reports by Lobbyist Employers - Contents.  Quarterly
reports by lobbyist employers shall contain the following information. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 182,360, Eff. 1/30/13.)



 



   1.   The name, address, email, and telephone number of the entity
filing the report.



 



   2.   The name of each lobbyist who is employed by the entity.



 



   3.   Total payments during the reporting period to lobbyists
employed by the entity.  Such payments shall include solely payments for
compensation and reimbursement of expenses relating to the lobbyists’
attempts to influence municipal legislation.



 



   4.   Total payments to employees of the entity, other than
lobbyists, who engaged in attempts to influence municipal legislation during
the reporting period.  Such payments shall include payments for compensation
and reimbursement of expenses relating to such persons’ attempts to
influence municipal legislation.



 



   5.   Total payments for expenses incurred in connection with
attempts by the entity during the reporting period to influence municipal
legislation.  These expenses shall include all expenses attributable to
attempts to influence municipal legislation, other than overhead, and other
expenses that would not be incurred but for the attempts to influence. Each
such expense of $5,000 or more shall be itemized and described.



 



   6.   A description of each item of municipal legislation which the
entity attempted to influence during the reporting period.



 



   7.   The date, amount and description of each activity expense of
$25 or more made by the lobbyist employer during the reporting period, the
name and title of the City official benefiting from the expense, and the name
and address of the payee.



 



   8.   The total amount of activity expenses made by the lobbyist
employer during the reporting period, whether or not itemized.



 



   9.   The name of any elective City officer, candidate for elective
City office, or any controlled committee of the officer or candidate to which
the lobbyist employer made contributions of $100 or more, or which were
delivered by the lobbyist employer, or in connection with which the lobbyist
employer acted as an intermediary during the reporting period, and the date
and amount of the contribution.  (Amended by Ord. No. 175,432, Eff. 9/28/03,
Oper. 1/1/04.)



 



   10.   The name of any elective City officer, candidate for elective
City office, or any City controlled committee of the officer or candidate for
which the lobbyist employer engaged in any fundraising activity during the
reporting period, the date(s) of the activity and the amount of funds the
lobbyist employer knows or has reason to know were raised as a result of the
activity.  (Added by Ord. No. 175,432, Eff. 9/28/03, Oper. 1/1/04.)



 



   11.   The date and amount of one or more contributions aggregating
more than $1,000 made by the lobbyist employer at the behest of an elective
City officer or candidate for elective City office during the reporting
period to any and all controlled committees of any other elective City
officer or candidate for elective City office, the name and address of the
payee, the name of the elective City officer or candidate for elective City
office who made the behest and the date of the behest.  (Added by Ord. No.
175,432, Eff. 9/28/03, Oper. 1/1/04.)



 



   12.   The date, amount and description of one or more donations
aggregating $1,000 or more made by the lobbyist employer at the behest of an
elective City officer or candidate for elective City office during the
reporting period to any religious, charitable or other nonprofit
organization, the name and address of the payee, the name of the elective
City officer or candidate for elective City office who made the behest and
the date of the behest.  (Added by Ord. No. 175,432, Eff. 9/28/03, Oper.
1/1/04.)



 



   13.   The name, address, email, and telephone number of the person
responsible for preparing the report.



 



   14.   Any other information required by regulation of the City
Ethics Commission, consistent with the purposes and provisions of this
article.



 



   E.   Quarterly Reports by Major Filers - Contents.  Quarterly
reports by major filers shall contain the following information:



 



   1.   The name, address and telephone number of the person filing the
report.



 



   2.   A description of each item of municipal legislation which the
entity attempted to influence during the reporting period.



 



   3.   The total payments made during the reporting period for the
purpose of attempting to influence action on each proposed or pending matter
of municipal legislation.



 



   4.   The name, address and telephone number of the person
responsible for preparing the report.



 



   5.   Any other information required by regulation of the City Ethics
Commission, consistent with the purposes and provision of this article.



 



 



SEC. 48.08.5.  COPIES OF SOLICITATIONS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 175,432, Eff. 9/28/03, Oper. 1/1/04.)



 



   Each lobbying entity that produces, pays for, mails or distributes more
than 50 substantially similar copies of a written political fundraising
solicitation for any controlled committee of an elective City officer or
candidate relating to seeking or holding City elective office or supporting
or opposing a City ballot measure shall send a copy of the solicitation to
the City Ethics Commission for public access, at the time the solicitation is
sent or otherwise distributed, and shall report on its next quarterly report
the date(s) on which it is mailed or distributed and a general description of
the content of the solicitation, the number of pieces mailed or distributed,
and name of the elective City officer, or candidate or City ballot measure
committee for which the funds were solicited.



 



 



SEC. 48.08.6.  LOBBYING DISCLOSURE – POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 175,432, Eff. 9/28/03, Oper. 1/1/04.)



 



   A.   Each lobbying entity, which makes one or more contributions to
an elective City officer and/or to any or all of his or her controlled
committees, shall file a notice with the City Ethics Commission each time the
making of a contribution results in the lobbying entity having made
contributions aggregating more than $7,000 to the officer and/or his or her
controlled committees within the past 12 months.  The notice shall be filed
on a form prescribed by the Commission within one business day after making a
contribution that triggers the filing requirement.  The notice shall contain
the following information:



 



   1.   The name, address and telephone number of the filer, the name
of the elective City officer, and/or any or all of his or her controlled
committees, to which the lobbying entity made contributions aggregating more
than $7,000 during the past twelve months, and the date and amount of each
contribution.



 



   2.   For purposes of this section, a “controlled committee” does
not include any committee controlled by an elective City officer that is (a)
formed to support or oppose a ballot measure or (b) formed to support the
election of that officer to other than elective City office.



 



   B.   The original notice shall be filed with the City Ethics
Commission, and copies shall be filed with the City Clerk and the elective
City officer involved.  Each notice may only include information relative to
one elective officer.



 



   C.   The form shall be considered filed on the date of the postmark
or on the date of delivery to the City Ethics Commission, whichever is
earlier.



 



   D.   The form shall be verified under penalty of perjury by the
individual filing it or by an officer of the entity authorized to file it.



 



   E.   The City Ethics Commission shall post the information in the
notice on its website within one business day of its receipt of the notice. 
The City Clerk shall make the notice available for inspection within one
business day of its receipt.



 



 



SEC. 48.08.7.  LOBBYING DISCLOSURE – FUNDRAISING ACTIVITY.



   (Added by Ord. No. 175,432, Eff. 9/28/03, Oper. 1/1/04.)



 



   A.   Every lobbying entity who within any 12 month period (i)
engaged in fundraising activities on behalf of an elective City officer
and/or any and all of his or her controlled committees, and which knows or
has reason to know that the fundraising activities resulted in contributions,
and/or (ii) delivered or acted as an intermediary for one or more
contributions to the elective City officer and/or any and all of his or her
controlled committees, shall file a notice with the City Ethics Commission
any time the activities identified in (i) and/or (ii) aggregate more than
$15,000 in the case of a member of the City Council, or more than $35,000 in
the case of the Mayor, City Attorney, or Controller.  The notice shall be
filed on a form prescribed by the City Ethics Commission within one business
day after any of these thresholds is exceeded.  The notice shall contain the
following information:



 



   1.   The name, address and telephone number of the filer, the name
of the elective City officer, and/or any or all of his or her controlled
committees, on whose behalf the lobbying entity engaged in fundraising
activities, or delivered or acted as intermediary for one or more
contributions to the elective City officer and/or any and all of his or her
controlled committees, the date of the fundraising activity, and the amount
of contributions raised, delivered or in connection with which the lobbying
entity acted as an intermediary.



 



   2.   For purposes of this section, a “controlled committee” does
not include any committee controlled by an elective City officer that is (a)
formed to support or oppose a ballot measure or (b) formed to support the
election of that officer to other than elective City office.



 



   3.   For purposes of this notification, if a fundraising event is
sponsored or hosted by more than one person, the amount of contributions
received at or as a result of the event shall be attributed to each lobbying
entity who hosted or sponsored the event according to the amount of the
contributions that resulted from that lobbying entity’s fundraising
activities.  If a contribution results from the fundraising of more than one
person and/or lobbying entity, that contribution shall be apportioned equally
to each of the persons and/or lobbying entity that engaged in the fundraising
activity.



 



   B.   The original notice shall be filed with the City Ethics
Commission, and copies shall be filed with the City Clerk and the elective
City officer involved.  Each notice may only include information relative to
one elective officer.



 



   C.   The form shall be considered filed on the date of the postmark
or on the date of delivery to the City Ethics Commission, whichever is
earlier.



 



   D.   The form shall be verified under penalty of perjury by the
individual filing it or by an officer of the entity authorized to file it.



 



   E.   The City Ethics Commission shall post the information in the
notice on its website within one business day of its receipt of the notice. 
The City Clerk shall make the notice available for inspection within one
business day of its receipt.



 



 



SEC. 48.08.8.  LOBBYING DISCLOSURE – WRITTEN COMMUNICATIONS TO
NEIGHBORHOOD COUNCILS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 176,034, Eff. 7/26/04.)



 



   (a)   No lobbying entity registered with the City of Los Angeles
shall deliver or send to a certified neighborhood council a written
communication on behalf of a client, including, but not limited to, letters,
faxes, electronic messages, and flyers, without a disclosure indicating that
the communication was delivered or sent by that lobbying entity.



 



   (b)   For purposes of subsection (a), the required disclosure shall
be printed clearly and legibly in no less than 8-point type in a color or
print that contrasts with the background so as to be legible and shall be
presented in a clear and conspicuous manner in the written communication. 
The disclosure shall include all of the following information applicable to
the written communication:



 



   (1)   The name of the lobbyist(s) that prepares, delivers or sends
the written communication;



 



   (2)   The name of the registered lobbying firm(s) or lobbyist
employer(s) who employs the lobbyist(s) that prepares, delivers or sends the
written communication; and,



 



   (3)   The name of the client or clients on whose behalf the lobbying
entity prepares, delivers, or sends the written communication in an attempt
to influence municipal legislation.



 



 



SEC. 48.09.  COMPLIANCE MEASURES AND ENFORCEMENT.



   (Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 169,916, Eff. 8/10/94.)



 



   A.   Audits. The City Ethics Commission shall have the authority to
conduct audits of reports and statements filed pursuant to this article. 
Such audits may be conducted on a random basis or when the City Ethics
Commission staff has reason to believe that a report or statement may be
inaccurate or has not been filed.



 



   B.   Criminal Penalties.



 



   1.   Any person who knowingly or willfully violates any provision of
this article is guilty of a misdemeanor.  Any person who knowingly or
willfully causes any other person to violate any provision of this article,
or who knowingly or willfully aids and abets any other person in the
violation of any provision of this article, is guilty of a misdemeanor.



 



   2.   Prosecution for violation of any provision of this article must
be commenced within one year after the date on which the violation occurred.



 



   3.   No person convicted of a violation of this article may act as a
lobbyist or otherwise attempt to influence municipal legislation for
compensation for one year after such conviction.



 



   C.   Civil Enforcement.



 



   1.   Any person who knowingly violates any provision of Section
48.04 shall be liable in a civil action brought by the City Attorney.  Any
person who intentionally or negligently violates any other provisions of this
article shall be liable in a civil action brought by the City Attorney. 
Failure to properly report any receipt or expenditure may result in civil
penalties not to exceed the amount not properly reported, or $2,000,
whichever is greater.  Any other violation may result in civil penalties no
greater than $2,000.  If the court determines that a violation was
intentional, the court may order that the defendant be prohibited from acting
as a lobbyist or otherwise attempting to influence municipal legislation for
one year.



 



   2.   In determining the amount of liability pursuant to this
subsection, the court shall take into account the seriousness of the
violation and the degree of culpability of the defendant.



 



   3.   If two or more persons are responsible for any violation, they
shall be jointly and severally liable.



 



   4.   No civil action alleging a violation of this article shall be
filed more than four years after the date the violation occurred.



 



   D.   Injunction.  The City Attorney on behalf of the people of the
City of Los Angeles may seek injunctive relief to enjoin violations of or to
compel compliance with the provisions of this article.



 



   E.   Administrative Penalties.  The City Ethics Commission may
impose penalties and issue orders for violation of this article pursuant to
its authority under Charter Section 706(c).  (Charter Section No. Amended by
Ord. No. 172,942, Eff. 1/21/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)



 



   F.   Late Filing Penalties.  In addition to any other penalty or
remedy available, if any person fails to file any report or statement
required by this article, after any deadline imposed by this article, such
person shall be liable to the City Ethics Commission in the amount of
twenty-five dollars ($25) per day after the deadline until the statement or
report is filed, up to a maximum amount of $500.  Liability need not be
enforced by the Commission if its Executive Officer determines that the late
filing was not willful and that enforcement of the penalty would not further
the purposes of this article.  No liability shall be waived if a statement
or report is not filed within 10 days after the Commission has sent specific
written notice to the filer of the filing requirement.



 



   G.   Restriction on Person Who Violates Certain Laws.  (Added by
Ord. No. 171,142, Eff. 8/3/96.)



 



   1.   No person shall act or continue to act as a registered lobbyist
or lobbying firm if, within the prior four years, that person has been found
by the City Ethics Commission, in a proceeding pursuant to Charter Section
706, to have violated Charter Section 470(k) on any occasion.  That
determination shall be based either on a finding of the City Ethics
Commission made after an administrative hearing or on a stipulation by the
lobbyist or lobbying firm entered into with the City Ethics Commission within
the previous four years.  (Charter Section Nos. Amended by Ord. No. 172,942,
Eff. 1/21/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)



 



   2.   If the City Ethics Commission makes a finding that the person
has either (1) accepted responsibility for the violation in the form of
having entered into a stipulation with the City Ethics Commission in which
the party admits the violation, or otherwise exhibits evidence of having
accepted such responsibility, or (2) mitigated the wrongdoing by taking
prompt remedial or corrective action, then the City Ethics Commission may
reduce the time period during which the above prohibition would apply to a
period of not less than one year.



 



   H.   Contract Bidder Certification of Compliance With Lobbying
Laws.  (Amended by Ord. No. 179,934, Eff. 7/21/08.)



 



   1.   A bidder for a contract, as those terms are defined in Los
Angeles Administrative Code Section 10.40.1, shall submit with its bid a
certification, through a form prescribed by the Ethics Commission, that the
bidder acknowledges and agrees to comply with the disclosure requirements and
prohibitions established in the Los Angeles Municipal Lobbying Ordinance if
the bidder qualifies as a lobbying entity under Section 48.02 of this
article.  An agency may permit the electronic submission of the form and the
use of electronic signatures that comply with California's electronic
signature laws, but an agency may not alter the content of the form.  The
exemptions contained in Section 48.03 of this article and Los Angeles
Administrative Code Section 10.40.4 shall not apply to this subsection. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 186,109, Eff. 6/13/19.)



 



   2.   Each agency shall include the Municipal Lobbying Ordinance in
each invitation for bids, request for proposals, request for qualifications,
or other solicitation related to entering into a contract with the City. 
The ordinance must be provided in at least 10-point font and may be provided
on paper, in an electronic format, or through a link to an online version of
the ordinance.  The ordinance is not required to be printed in a newspaper
notice of the solicitation.



 



   3.   This subsection does not apply to the renewal, extension, or
amendment of an existing contract, as long as the solicitation for the
original contract met the requirements in Paragraphs 1. and 2. above and the
renewal, extension, or amendment does not involve a new solicitation.



 



   4.   For purposes of this subsection, “agency” does not include
a state agency operating solely within the City such as the Community
Redevelopment Agency or Los Angeles City Housing Authority.



 



 



SEC. 48.10.  ETHICS COMMISSION REPORTS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 169,916, Eff. 8/10/94.)



 



   As soon as practicable after the close of each quarterly reporting
period, the City Ethics Commission shall prepare a report to the Mayor and
City Council of lobbying activity which occurred during the reporting
period.  Such report shall be in a form which, in the opinion of the
Commission, best describes the activities, receipts and expenditures of
persons subject to the requirements of this article.



 



 



SEC. 48.11.  SEVERABILITY.



   (Added by Ord. No. 169,916, Eff. 8/10/94.)



 



   If any provision of this article, or its application to any person or
circumstance, is held invalid by any court, the remainder of this article and
its application to other persons and circumstances, other than that which has
been held invalid, shall not be affected by such invalidity, and to that
extent the provisions of this article are declared to be severable.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 9
STATEMENTS OF CITY RELATED BUSINESS



 




(Repealed by Ord. No. 177,190, Eff. 1/23/06.)




 



 



 



ARTICLE 9.5
MUNICIPAL ETHICS AND CONFLICTS OF INTEREST



 




(Repealed and New Article 9.5 added by Ord. No. 165,618, Eff. 4/21/90, Oper.
1/1/91;
Amended In Entirety by Ord. No. 182,842, Eff. 2/10/14.)




 



 



Section



49.5.1   Title, Findings and Purpose.



49.5.2   Definitions.



49.5.3   Confidential Information.



49.5.4   Protection Against Retaliation.



49.5.5   Misuse of City Position or Resource.



49.5.6   Conflicts of Interest.



49.5.7   Honoraria and Outside Employment.



49.5.8   Gifts.



49.5.9   Disclosure of Economic Interests.



49.5.10   Disclosure by Nominees.



49.5.11   Contracts Generally.



49.5.12   Contracts and Money Laundering Violations.



49.5.13   Lobbying Activities of Current and Former City Officials.



49.5.14   Future Employment.



49.5.15   Ethics and Fraud Awareness Training.



49.5.16   Enforcement.



49.5.17   Late Filing Penalties.



49.5.18   Authority to Enact.



49.5.19   Recordkeeping.



49.5.20   Severability.



 



 



SEC. 49.5.1.  TITLE, FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.



 



   A.   Title.  This Article shall be known as the City of Los Angeles
Governmental Ethics Ordinance.



 



   B.   Findings.  The following findings are adopted in conjunction
with the enactment of this Article:



 



   1.   As one of the great international cities of the world, Los
Angeles will continue to confront great and complex opportunities and
problems of both local and global significance.



 



   2.   One of the best ways to attract talented people to public
service is to assure that the government is respected for its honesty and
integrity; that its decisions are made on the merits, untainted by any
consideration of private gain; and that the rules governing their conduct
during and after leaving government service are as clear and complete as
possible.



 



   3.   A governmental ethics ordinance that is as clear, tough, fair,
comprehensive and effective as any in the nation is therefore needed.



 



   C.   Purposes.  This Article is adopted to accomplish the following
purposes:



 



   1.   To assure that individuals and interest groups in our society
have a fair and equal opportunity to participate in the governmental process.



 



   2.   To assure that the governmental process itself promotes
fairness and equity for all residents of the City regardless of race, color,
creed, religion, national origin, age, sex, marital status, sexual
orientation or disability.



 



   3.   To require elected City officers and key City officials to
disclose investments, interests in real property and income in order to
prevent conflicts of interests.



 



   4.   To prevent elected City officers and key City officials from
receiving outside earned income that creates a potential conflict of
interests.



 



   5.   To prevent City officials from lobbying the City for certain
periods of time after they leave City service.



 



   6.   To increase understanding of the City Charter and ordinances,
the roles of elected City officers and other public officials, the roles of
City agencies, and the City election process.



 



   7.   To help restore public trust in governmental and electoral
institutions.



 



   8.   To assure that this Article is vigorously enforced.



 



 



SEC. 49.5.2.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   The following terms have the meanings identified below.  Other terms
used in this Article have the meanings identified in the state's Political
Reform Act.



 



   A.   "Agency" means the City of Los Angeles or any City department,
bureau, office, board, commission, or entity required to adopt a conflict of
interests code subject to City Council approval.  With respect to employees
of a City Council member's staff and employees of the Chief Legislative
Analyst's office, "agency" means the City Council.  The term does not
include a governmental entity that is not within the City's control, even if
the entity is required to adopt a conflict of interests code subject to City
Council approval, unless the entity elects to be subject to this Article.



 



   B.   "Bidder" means a person who bids on or submits a proposal or
other response to a City contract solicitation including a request for
proposals, request for bids, request for qualifications, or any other request
for purposes of entering into a contract.



 



   C.   "City official" means an elected City officer or an agency
board member, officer, employee, commissioner, or consultant who, because of
the individual's service to an agency, is required to file a statement of
economic interests pursuant to the Political Reform Act.



 



   D.   "Confidential information" means information that, if it were
contained in a document, would not be subject to disclosure under the state's
Public Records Act.



 



   E.   "Contract" means an agreement, lease, right of entry,
franchise, or concession, including but not limited to an agreement for the
performance of work, the rendition of service, or the provision of materials,
equipment, or supplies to the City or the public, which is let, awarded, or
entered into with or on behalf of an agency.



 



   F.   "Elected City officer" means a person who is a City Council
member, City Attorney, Controller, or Mayor, whether appointed or elected.



 



   G.   "Matter pending" means a matter in which a non-ministerial
action is required to proceed with or resolve the matter but has not yet been
taken.



 



   H.   "Political activity" means activity directed at the success or
failure of any ballot measure or candidate for elective office in a future
election and includes but is not limited to:  endorsing a candidate;
engaging in fundraising; developing, displaying, or distributing campaign
materials; conducting research; or posting comments on social media or other
Internet sites.



 



   I.   "Political Reform Act" means the California Political Reform
Act of 1974 (California Government Code Sections 81000 et seq.) and the
related regulations of the California Fair Political Practices Commission as
amended from time to time.



 



   J.   "Restricted source" means the following:



 



   1.   For elected City officers, a restricted source is the following:



 



   a.   A person who files as a lobbying firm or lobbyist or is
required to file as a lobbying firm or lobbyist, as defined in Section 48.02.



 



   b.   A person who has entered into, performs under, or seeks a
contract with the City.  This does not include the following:



 



   i.   An individual who has entered into or performs under an
agreement with the City regarding employment; or



 



   ii.   A person who receives or pays for services normally rendered
by the City to residents and businesses, such as sewer service, water and
power service, or street maintenance.



 



   c.   A person who, during the prior 12 months, attempted to
influence the elected City officer in any City action that would have a
material financial effect on the person.  This does not include an
individual who attempted to influence action regarding that individual's own
City compensation, benefits, or retirement.



 



   d.   A person who is or in the prior 12 months was a party to a
proceeding involving a license, permit, or other entitlement for use that was
pending before the elected City officer, the City Council, or a board,
commission, committee, or other similar body of which the elected City
officer is a voting member.



 



   e.   A person who is an applicant, owner, or principal under Section
49.7.37.  (Added by Ord. No. 186,477, Eff. 1/23/20.)



 



   2.   For all other City officials, a restricted source is the
following:



 



   a.   A person who seeks to influence decisions of the City
official's agency and files as a lobbying firm or lobbyist, or is required to
file as a lobbying firm or lobbyist as defined in Section 48.02;



 



   b.   A person who has entered into, performs under, or seeks a
contract with the City official's agency.  This does not include the
following:



 



   i.   An individual who has entered into or performs under an
agreement with the City official's agency regarding employment; or



 



   ii.   A person who receives or pays for services normally rendered
by the City to residents and businesses, such as sewer service, water and
power service, or street maintenance.



 



   c.   A person who, during the prior 12 months, attempted to
influence the official in any City action that would have a material
financial effect on the person.  This does not include an individual who
attempted to influence action regarding that individual's own City
compensation, benefits, or retirement.



 



   d.   A person who is or in the prior 12 months was a party to a
proceeding involving a license, permit, or other entitlement for use that was
pending before the official or before a board, commission, committee, or
other similar body of which the official is a voting member.



 



 



SEC. 49.5.3.  CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.



 



   A current or former City official or agency employee shall not misuse
or disclose confidential information acquired as a result of City service.



 



 



SEC. 49.5.4.  PROTECTION AGAINST RETALIATION.



 



   A.   City officials and agency employees shall not use or threaten
to use any official authority or influence to discourage, restrain, or
interfere with another person's attempt to report possible violations of law
to the Ethics Commission or another governmental entity.



 



   B.   City officials and agency employees shall not use or threaten
to use any official authority or influence to effect any action as a reprisal
against another person who reports a possible violation of law to the Ethics
Commission or another governmental entity.



 



   C.   A person who believes that he or she has been subjected to an
action prohibited by this Section may file a confidential complaint with the
Ethics Commission.



 



   D.   The Ethics Commission may refer retaliation complaints to
appropriate agencies for disciplinary purposes.



 



 



SEC. 49.5.5.  MISUSE OF CITY POSITION OR RESOURCES.



 



   A.   City officials, agency employees, appointees awaiting
confirmation by the City Council, and candidates for elected City office
shall not misuse or attempt to misuse their positions or prospective
positions to create or attempt to create a private advantage or disadvantage,
financial or otherwise, for any person.



 



   B.   City officials and agency employees shall not engage in
political activity in the following scenarios:



 



   1.   While on duty for the City.



 



   2.   In any manner that implies the City official or agency employee
is speaking on behalf of the City or communicating a City position.  This
may include but is not limited to engaging in political activity in the
following scenarios:



 



   a.   While wearing a uniform or official City insignia; or



 



   b.   Using a City title or position.



 



   3.   In a room or building that is owned by the City or primarily
paid for or used by the City and occupied by a City official or agency
employee in the discharge of City duties.  This does not include a City room
or building that is available to the public for organized campaign activities
as long as the City official or agency employee does not use the room or
building during the official's or employee's City working hours and does not
use other City resources for the activity.



 



   4.   Using City equipment, vehicle, supplies, or resources,
including but not limited to mailing and distribution lists, electronic mail,
and electronic data.



 



   C.   A person shall not induce or coerce or attempt to induce or
coerce another person to engage in activity prohibited by Subsections A. or B.



 



   D.   This Section does not prohibit the use of City resources to
provide information to the public about the possible effects of a bond issue
or ballot measure relating to City activities, operations, or policies when
the use of public resources is otherwise legally authorized.



 



 



SEC. 49.5.6.  CONFLICTS OF INTERESTS.



 



   A.   City officials shall not make, participate in making, or
attempt to use their official positions to influence City decisions in which
they know or have reason to know they have a financial interest.



 



   B.   In the first 12 months of City service, a City official or
agency employee shall not knowingly make, participate in making, or attempt
to use his or her official position to influence a City decision directly
relating to a contract when a party to the contract is a person by whom the
individual was employed in the 12 months immediately prior to entering City
service.



 



   C.   Statements of City-Related Business.



 



   1.   An elected City officer, a candidate for elected City office, a
member of a City board or commission, a general manager or chief
administrative officer of an agency, and an individual holding an appointive
office named in the Charter shall file a statement of City-related business
with the Ethics Commission within ten calendar days after a City action,
other than a ministerial action, affects the individual's personal financial
interests.



 



   2.   For purposes of the statement, a City action affects an
individual's personal financial interests if it involves one or more of the
following held by, required of, or sought by the individual, the individual's
spouse or registered domestic partner, or a business entity in which either
the individual or the individual's spouse or registered domestic partner
holds an ownership interest of five percent or more:



 



   a.   The sale of real or personal property; or



 



   b.   The performance of services pursuant to a contract; or



 



   c.   A grant, loan, or forgiveness or payment of indebtedness; or



 



   d.   An application for a license, certificate, permit, franchise,
change of zone, variance, credential, or other benefit or relief.



 



   3.   The statement shall be in sufficient detail as to dates,
amounts, identifying numbers or symbols, locations, and subject matter to
make the action identifiable by reference to City records.



 



   4.   The statement shall be filed under penalty of perjury in a
method prescribed by the Ethics Commission.



 



   5.   The statement shall satisfy the requirements of Section 304 of
the City Election Code.



 



   D.   Recusal Notification.



 



   1.   A member of a City board or commission who is required to file
a statement of economic interests pursuant to the Political Reform Act shall
file a recusal notification form each time the member recuses himself or
herself in relation to an actual or apparent conflict of interests.



 



   a.   The member shall file a copy of the completed form with the
executive secretary for the commission or board (or the person acting in that
capacity) as soon as possible after the posting of the agenda containing the
item involving the member's conflict of interests.



 



   b.   The member shall file the original form, along with a copy of
the meeting agenda containing the item involving the conflict of interests,
with the Ethics Commission within 15 calendar days after the date of the
meeting at which the recusal occurred.



 



   c.   The member shall file the form even if the member is not
present at the meeting.



 



   2.   The form shall be filed under penalty of perjury in a method
prescribed by the Ethics Commission and shall include, at a minimum, the
following:



 



   a.   The member's name;



 



   b.   The name of the member's board or commission;



 



   c.   The date of the meeting at which the recusal occurred or would
have occurred;



 



   d.   The agenda item number, a brief description of the matter, and
a statement of whether the matter concerns the making of a contract; and



 



   e.   The specific interest causing the recusal and a statement of
whether the interest is financial.



 



   E.   Every agency shall make every effort to avoid hiring or
appointing City officials who hold and are unwilling or unable to sell assets
that would present significant and continuing conflicts of interests.



 



 



SEC. 49.5.7.  HONORARIA AND OUTSIDE EMPLOYMENT.



 



   A.   City officials and agency employees shall not engage in outside
employment during any hours they are paid to engage in City business.  A
person shall not induce or coerce or attempt to induce or coerce a City
official or agency employee to engage in such outside employment.



 



   B.   Elected City officers shall not receive any payment, including
honoraria, for their services other than that provided for by City Charter
Section 218.  However, they may receive compensation for serving on
governmental entities where payment is authorized for other governmental
officers or employees serving in such capacity.



 



   C.   City officials, other than elected City officers and part-time
board and commission members, shall not accept a payment for honoraria or
other outside earned income or employment without prior written approval.



 



   1.   Prior written approval must first be obtained from the general
manager or chief administrative officer of the City official's department.



 



   a.   General managers, chief administrative officers, and members of
the Board of Public Works must obtain prior written approval from their
appointing authorities.



 



   b.   City Council staff members must obtain prior written approval
from their City Council members.



 



   c.   A City official who does not have an appointing authority must
obtain prior written approval from the Ethics Commission.



 



   2.   If the general manager, chief administrative officer, or
appointing authority approves the payment, the City official must determine
whether the source is a restricted source for the City official.  If the
source is a restricted source, the City official shall not accept the payment
without also obtaining prior written approval from the Ethics Commission.



 



   3.   The approval required by Subdivisions 1. and 2. shall be denied
if the general manager, chief administrative officer, appointing authority,
or Ethics Commission determines that receipt of the payment would be
inconsistent, incompatible, in conflict with, or inimical to the City
official's official duties, functions, or responsibilities.  Such a
determination must be made if one or more of the following factors applies:



 



   a.   The payment or the services for which the payment would be
received would involve any of the following:



 



   i.   The actual use of or the appearance of the use of public
office, employment, time, facilities, equipment, or supplies for private gain;



 



   ii.   The City official's performance of an act that could later be
subject to the control, inspection, review, audit, or enforcement of the City
official's agency; or



 



   iii.   Such time demands that the City official's performance of
official City duties would be rendered less efficient.



 



   b.   The City official would be accepting payment from a person
other than the City official's agency for performing an act that the City
official would be required or expected to render in the regular course of
performing City duties.



 



   c.   The City official is in a position to make, participate in
making, or influence a City decision that could foreseeably have a material
financial effect on the source of the payment.



 



   4.   A request for approval from the Ethics Commission shall be
treated as a request for written advice under Charter Section 705(b).



 



 



SEC. 49.5.8.  GIFTS.



 



   A.   A person shall not offer or make and a City official shall not
solicit or accept a gift when it is reasonably foreseeable that the City
official could be influenced by the gift in the performance of an official
act.



 



   B.   City officials shall comply with the gift requirements and
restrictions in the Political Reform Act and California Constitution.  When
the Political Reform Act's gift provisions, other than gift limits, refer to
a lobbying entity, the reference shall include a City lobbying firm and
lobbyist.



 



   C.   In addition to the state requirements and restrictions
identified in Subsection B., City officials shall also comply with the
following gift restrictions for restricted sources.



 



   1.   A City official shall not solicit a gift from a restricted
source.  A City official shall not accept a gift that exceeds the applicable
gift limit from a restricted source.



 



   2.   A person who is a restricted source to a City official shall
not offer or make a gift that exceeds the applicable gift limit to that City
official.



 



   3.   A restricted source shall not act as an agent or intermediary
in or arrange for the making of a gift by another person to a City official
that exceeds the applicable gift limit.



 



   4.   The applicable gift limits are as follows:



 



   a.   For restricted sources identified in Section 49.5.2 J.1.a. or
Section 49.5.2 J.2.a., the applicable gift limit is zero.



 



   b.   For all other restricted sources, the applicable gift limit is
one-hundred dollars ($100) per calendar year.



 



   5.   The applicable gift limits for restricted sources do not apply
to the following:



 



   a.   Items received by a City official from a union representing
that City official.



 



   b.   Food and beverages received by a City official from a union
representing a bargaining unit of City officials.



 



   c.   Items received by a City official acting in an official City
capacity from an organization to which the City, the City official, or the
City official's agency belongs as a member.



 



   d.   Nominal and routine office courtesies received by a City
official in a restricted source's place of business, as long as the
courtesies are available to any person who visits that place of business.



 



   e.   Payments for travel and meals that are made by an organization
that is exempt from taxation under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue
Code, a bona fide educational institution as defined by Section 203 of the
California Revenue and Taxation Code, or a governmental entity and where the
payments are exempt from the gift limits in the Political Reform Act.



 



   6.   A City official has the duty to determine whether a person is a
restricted source to him or her.  A person offering or making a gift to a
City official has the duty to determine whether he or she is a restricted
source to that City official.



 



   a.   For restricted sources identified in Sections 49.5.2 J.1.a. and
49.5.2 J.2.a., the following apply:



 



   i.   A City official may presume that a person is not a restricted
source to him or her if the person is not identified in the electronic filing
system for lobbying entities under Section 48.06 B. on the date the gift is
offered or made, the City official has conducted a reasonable inquiry into
whether the person is a restricted source between database updates, and the
City official does not have personal knowledge that the person qualifies as a
restricted source.



 



   ii.   The electronic filing system for lobbying entities is a
reference for compliance and enforcement purposes for gifts offered or made
as of the date the database was last updated.



 



   b.   For restricted sources identified in Sections 49.5.2 J.1.b. and
49.5.2 J.2.b., the following apply:



 



   i.   A City official may presume that a person is not a restricted
source to him or her if the person is not identified in the database in
Section 49.5.11 B. on the date the gift is offered or made, the City official
has conducted a reasonable inquiry into whether the person is a restricted
source between database updates, and the City official does not have personal
knowledge that the person qualifies as a restricted source.



 



   ii.   The restricted source gift limit does not apply to sources
that are only identified in Section 49.5.2 J.1.b. or Section 49.5.2 J.2.b.
until the Ethics Commission and the City Council initially certify that the
database in Section 49.5.11 B. provides enough information for a City
official to determine whether a person is a restricted source to him or her
under Section 49.5.2 J.1.b. or 49.5.2 J.2.b.



 



   iii.   The database is a reference for compliance and enforcement
purposes for gifts offered or made from the date the database is certified
through the date the database was last updated.



 



   c.   For restricted sources identified in Sections 49.5.2 J.1.c.,
49.5.2 J.1.d., 49.5.2 J.2.c., and 49.5.2 J.2.d., the following apply:



 



   i.   A City official may presume that a person is not a restricted
source to him or her if the City official has conducted a reasonable inquiry
into whether the person is a restricted source and does not have personal
knowledge that the person qualifies as a restricted source.



 



   ii.   The Ethics Commission will not maintain a database.



 



   d.   A reasonable inquiry includes asking the source, asking a
responsible employee in the relevant agency, and reviewing the City Clerk's
council file management system.



 



   D.   A ticket or pass distributed by an agency to a City official in
accordance with Chapter 5 of Los Angeles Administrative Code Division 24 is
not a gift to the City official.  (Added by Ord. No. 183,731, Eff. 8/4/15.)



 



 



SEC. 49.5.9.  DISCLOSURE OF ECONOMIC INTERESTS.



 



   A.   A City official shall file a statement of economic interests
pursuant to the Political Reform Act and this Section.



 



   B.   Whenever an elected City officer, a member of a City board or
commission, or a general manager or chief administrative officer of an agency
is required by the Political Reform Act to file a statement of economic
interests, the individual also shall disclose financial interests associated
with restricted sources.



 



   1.   The following financial interests shall be disclosed:



 



   a.   Interests in real property that were leased from or to,
co-owned by, purchased from, or sold to a restricted source by the City
official or the City official's spouse, registered domestic partner, or
dependent child.



 



   b.   Investments that were co-owned by, purchased from, or sold to a
restricted source by the City official or the City official's spouse,
registered domestic partner, or dependent child.



 



   c.   Income other than gifts that was valued at $500 or more and was
received from a restricted source by the City official or the City official's
spouse, registered domestic partner, or dependent child.



 



   d.   Gifts cumulatively valued at $50 or more and that were received
from a restricted source by the City official or the City official's spouse,
registered domestic partner, or dependent child.



 



   e.   Positions held on the board of a restricted source by the City
official or the City official's spouse, registered domestic partner, or
dependent child.



 



   2.   The disclosure shall be verified under penalty of perjury.



 



   3.   The disclosure shall be made in a method prescribed by the
Ethics Commission and may include additional information the Ethics
Commission deems necessary.



 



   4.   The disclosure shall be filed on the same schedule and for the
same reporting period as the statement required by the Political Reform Act.



 



   5.   A City official is not required to disclose the name of a
person who paid fees or made payments to the City official or to a business
entity in which the City official or the City official's spouse or registered
domestic partner holds an interest if the executive director determines that
disclosing the person's name would violate a legally recognized privilege.



 



   C.   The Ethics Commission may, by regulation, require the
disclosure of specific types of financial interests, in addition to those
interests required to be disclosed pursuant to this Section, if it is
reasonably foreseeable that the interest could be materially affected by the
City official's exercise of official City duties.



 



 



SEC. 49.5.10.  DISCLOSURE BY NOMINEES.



 



   A.   Each person nominated to a position in an agency subject to a
conflict of interests code, where appointment is subject to confirmation by
the City Council, shall file a financial disclosure statement with the Ethics
Commission in the method prescribed by the Ethics Commission.  The financial
disclosure statement shall be filed within 21 days of the appointing
authority's transmission of the nominee's appointment to the City Council.



 



   B.   Within five business days of receiving a complete financial
disclosure statement from the appointee, the Ethics Commission staff shall
forward a copy of the financial disclosure statement to the appointing
authority and the City Council or its committee confirming the appointment.



 



 



SEC. 49.5.11.  CONTRACTS GENERALLY.



 



   A.   Except at a public meeting, a member of a City board or
commission shall not participate in the development, review, evaluation, or
negotiation of or the recommendation process for bids, proposals, or any
other requests for the award or termination of a contract, amendment, or
change order involving that board, commission, or agency.  This does not
preclude individual members from reviewing documents and other information
provided by agency staff when preparing for a public meeting at which the
matter will be considered.



 



   B.   The Ethics Commission shall provide an official, electronic
City database for restricted sources that are identified in Sections 49.5.2
J.1.b. and 49.5.2 J.2.b.



 



   1.   Each agency shall submit to the Ethics Commission information
regarding every person who, during the relevant time period, was a party to
an agency contract, was a bidder on an agency contract, or responded to a
request for proposals for an agency contract.  Submitting the information to
the City Clerk or to another City database shall not be deemed compliance
with this Section.



 



   2.   Agency information must include the name of the person, the
date the bid or response was submitted, the date the contract was entered
into, any contract or proposal number, a brief description of the contract,
and any other information deemed necessary by the Ethics Commission.



 



   3.   Agency information must be submitted in a method prescribed by
the Ethics Commission by the following dates:



 



   a.   Every January 31, covering the immediately preceding October 1
through December 31;



 



   b.   Every April 30, covering the immediately preceding January 1
through March 31;



 



   c.   Every July 31, covering the immediately preceding April 1
though June 30; and



 



   d.   Every October 31, covering the immediately preceding July 1
through September 30.



 



   4.   For each agency, the Ethics Commission shall update the
database within 45 days after a quarterly filing deadline that is specified
in paragraph 3 or the date the agency submits complete quarterly information,
whichever is later.  The database shall include a disclaimer noting the date
of the last update for each agency.



 



   5.   If an agency fails to submit complete quarterly information
within five business after a quarterly filing deadline specified in paragraph
3., the Ethics Commission staff shall notify every elected City officer and
the agency's general manager or chief administrative officer of the
delinquency.  Failure to comply within 10 business days of the date of the
notice will subject the agency's general manager, chief administrative
officer, or responsible elected City officer to liability under Section
49.5.17.



 



   6.   For purposes of this Subsection, a City Council district is a
distinct agency.



 



   7.   The City shall provide the Ethics Commission with adequate
staffing and funding to create, maintain, and update the database.



 



 



SEC. 49.5.12.  CONTRACTS AND MONEY LAUNDERING VIOLATIONS.



 



   A.   Competitively Bid Contracts.



 



   1.   An awarding authority shall not award a contract to a bidder if
it finds the following:



 



   a.   The Ethics Commission has found that the bidder violated City
Charter Section 470(k) in the previous four years; and



 



   b.   The bidder lacks integrity such that it is unfit to perform the
work specified in the contract.  The awarding authority shall make that
finding unless there are specific facts brought to its attention in writing
that indicate otherwise.



 



   2.   If the findings in paragraph 1. are made, the awarding
authority shall deem the bidder to be not responsible.



 



   3.   Prior to making a finding that a bidder is not responsible, the
awarding authority shall do the following:



 



   a.   Notify the bidder of its intention to consider making the
finding.



 



   b.   Offer the bidder an opportunity to present evidence and argue
that, despite the violation, the awarding authority should not have reason to
question the bidder's integrity and fitness to perform the contract.



 



   c.   Hold an informal hearing at which the bidder and other
interested parties may make presentations.



 



   d.   Consider the presentations of the bidder and other interested
parties and be satisfied that the finding is merited.



 



   B.   Contracts Awarded on a Basis Other Than Competitive Bidding. 
The awarding authority shall not approve a contract with a party who has been
found by the Ethics Commission to have violated City Charter Section 470(k)
within the previous four years.



 



   C.   Fee Waivers.  A discretionary fee waiver of more than $1,000
shall not be granted for a person who has been found by the Ethics Commission
to have violated City Charter Section 470(k) within the previous four years.



 



   D.   Notice of Violations.



 



   1.   The Ethics Commission shall provide a copy of every Commission
enforcement decision relating to a violation of City Charter Section 470(k)
to the general manager or other head of each agency.



 



   2.   A person who submits a bid or proposal or requests a fee waiver
shall include with the submission or request a copy of the Ethics
Commission's decision of violation.



 



   3.   A report that contains sufficient information to allow a
decision-making body to comply with this Section shall be submitted to the
decision-making body by the following:



 



   a.   By the City Clerk, when the City Council is the decision-making
body.



 



   b.   By agency staff when a City board or commission is the
decision-making body.



 



   E.   Reduction of Time Period.  The Ethics Commission may reduce
the time during which this Section applies to not less than one year if it
finds that the contracting party has done either of the following:



 



   1.   Accepted responsibility for the violation by entering into a
stipulation with the Ethics Commission in which the party admits the
violation or otherwise exhibits evidence of having accepted responsibility; or



 



   2.   Mitigated the wrongdoing by taking prompt remedial or
corrective action.



 



   F.   Waiver of Provisions.  The City Council may waive any or all
of the requirements in this Section if it finds that an overriding public
policy consideration justifies doing so.



 



   1.   The finding must be approved in writing by a two-thirds vote of
the City Council's entire membership.



 



   2.   The finding must identify the nature of the overriding public
policy consideration and the reason why that consideration justifies the
waiver.  A waiver is justified if it would result in a significant community
or financial benefit to the City or if it is necessary to preserve the
health, safety, or welfare of the public.



 



   G.   Exception.  This Section, excluding Subsection D.1., does not
apply to the following proprietary City departments: Airports, City Employees
Retirement System, Harbor, Library, Pensions, Recreation and Parks, and Water
and Power.



 



 



SEC. 49.5.13.  LOBBYING ACTIVITIES OF CURRENT AND FORMER CITY OFFICIALS.



 



   A.   A member of a City board or commission who is required to file
statements of economic interests pursuant to the Political Reform Act shall
not receive compensation to communicate, either personally or through an
agent, with a City official for the purpose of attempting to influence action
on a City matter on behalf of a person other than an agency.  This
Subsection does not prohibit a member of a City board or commission from
appearing before an agency in the same manner as any other member of the
general public solely to represent himself or herself in a matter related to
his or her personal interests.



 



   B.   A former City official or agency employee who personally and
substantially participated in a specific matter during City service shall not
receive compensation to attempt to influence City action on that matter,
either personally or through an agent, on behalf of a person other than an
agency.  Personal and substantial participation includes but is not limited
to making or voting on a decision or making a recommendation, rendering
advice, and conducting research or an investigation.



 



   1.   A former City official or agency employee shall not receive
compensation to counsel or assist a person other than an agency regarding
activity that is prohibited for the former City official or agency employee
pursuant to this Subsection.



 



   2.   This prohibition applies as long as the matter is still pending
before an agency or an agency is a party to the matter.



 



   3.   This prohibition does not apply when the former City official
or agency employee participated in the matter in solely a ministerial
capacity.



 



   C.   The following time-based restrictions on lobbying activities
apply to former City officials.



 



   1.   For one year after leaving City service, a City official shall
not receive compensation to attempt to influence, either personally or
through an agent, City action on any matter pending before any agency on
behalf of a person other than an agency if, during the 24 months preceding
the official's departure from City service, the official held any of the
following positions:  elected City officer; Board of Public Works
Commissioner; General Manager; Chief Administrative Officer; Mayor's Chief of
Staff; Deputy Mayor; Mayoral Aide VII; Mayoral Aide VIII; Executive Assistant
City Attorney; Chief Assistant City Attorney; Senior Assistant City Attorney;
City Attorney Exempt Employee; Chief Deputy Controller; Administrative Deputy
Controller; Principal Deputy Controller; Council Aide VI; or Council Aide VII.



 



   2.   For one year after leaving City service, all other former City
officials shall not receive compensation to attempt to influence, either
personally or through an agent, City action on any matter pending before an
agency in which the City official served during the 24 months preceding the
official's departure from City service on behalf of a person other than an
agency.  Serving an agency means being directly employed by or being
assigned or on loan to that agency.



 



   D.   This Section does not apply to the following:



 



   1.   Attempts to influence solely ministerial action on City matters.



 



   2.   Attempts to influence made by former City officials who are
officers or employees of a governmental entity and are solely representing
that entity in an official capacity.



 



   E.   By July 31 of every year, the City Controller shall submit to
the Ethics Commission the names of each individual who held a position
identified in Subsection C.1. during the preceding 24 months.  By July 31 of
every year, the City Clerk shall submit to the Ethics Commission the names of
each individual who held a City Attorney Exempt position as provided in City
Charter Section 1050(d) during the preceding 24 months.



 



   F.   Upon the petition of an interested party, a court or presiding
officer in a judicial, quasi judicial, or other proceeding may exclude a
person found to be in violation of this Section from further participating in
or assisting another participant in a proceeding pending before that court or
presiding officer.  Notice and an opportunity to be heard must be provided.



 



Editor's note: Section 2 of Ord. No. 182,842 provides that Subsection C. of
Section 49.5.13 shall apply to City officials leaving City service on or
after February 10, 2014.  That Subsection C. also applies to City officials
that left City service prior to February 14, 2014 by providing those City
officials the benefit of any more permissive conduct allowed in Subsection C.
if the conduct occurred after February 10, 2014.



 



 



SEC. 49.5.14.  FUTURE EMPLOYMENT.



 



   A.   The following limits on future employment apply to City
officials.



 



   1.   The Mayor, the City Attorney, the City Controller, a general
manager, and a chief administrative officer shall not directly or indirectly,
knowingly or willfully negotiate the possibility of future employment or
business opportunities with a person other than a governmental entity if the
person has a matter that is currently pending before that City official or
the City official's agency.



 



   2.   A member of the City Council, a City board or commission, or
another voting body of an agency who is required to file statements of
economic interests pursuant to the Political Reform Act shall not directly or
indirectly, knowingly or willfully negotiate the possibility of future
employment or business opportunities with a person other than a governmental
entity if the person has a matter that is currently pending before that City
official or a body of which the City official is a voting member.



 



   3.   A City official other than one identified in Subsection 1. or
2. above shall not directly or indirectly, knowingly or willfully negotiate
the possibility of future employment or business opportunities with a person
other than a governmental entity if the person has a matter that is currently
pending before that City official.



 



   4.   City officials shall not make, participate in making, or use
their official City positions to influence a decision involving the interests
of a person with whom they have an agreement concerning future employment or
business opportunities.



 



   B.   A person who has a matter pending before a City official or a
body of which the City official is a voting member shall not directly or
indirectly, knowingly or willfully negotiate the possibility of future
employment of or business opportunities for that City official.



 



   C.   A person has a matter pending if the person is a party to or is
compensated to represent a party to the matter.



 



 



SEC. 49.5.15.  ETHICS AND FRAUD AWARENESS TRAINING.



 



   A.   Ethics Training.  All City officials are required to complete
ethics training at the time of entering City service and once every two years
thereafter.  The training shall be developed by the Ethics Commission, in
partnership with the Office of the City Attorney, and shall be structured to
ensure that participants have knowledge to comply with all of the relevant
ethics laws governing their service to the City.



 



   B.   Fraud Awareness Training.  All full-time City employees are
required to complete on-line training for fraud awareness at the time of
entering City service and once every two years thereafter.  The training
shall be developed by the City Controller's Fraud, Waste and Abuse Unit and
provided by the Personnel Department as described in the Los Angeles
Administrative Code.



 



 



SEC. 49.5.16.  ENFORCEMENT.



 



   A.   Criminal Enforcement.



 



   1.   A person who does any of the following is guilty of a
misdemeanor:



 



   a.   Knowingly or willfully violates a provision of this Article;



 



   b.   Knowingly or willfully causes another person to violate a
provision of this Article; or



 



   c.   Aids and abets another person in violating a provision of this
Article.



 



   2.   Prosecution shall be commenced within four years after the date
of the violation.



 



   3.   A person convicted of a misdemeanor under this Article shall
not act as a City lobbyist or contractor for four years following the date of
the conviction, unless the court at the time of sentencing specifically
determines that this provision shall not be applied.



 



   4.   For the purposes of this Section, a plea of nolo contendere
shall be deemed a conviction.



 



   B.   Civil Actions.



 



   1.   A person who intentionally or negligently violates a provision
of this Article shall be liable in a civil action brought by the City
Attorney, the Ethics Commission, or a person residing within the City for an
amount not more than the greater of $5,000 per violation or three times the
amount the person failed to report, properly or unlawfully contributed,
expended, gave, or received.



 



   2.   If two or more persons are responsible for any violation, they
shall be jointly and severally liable.



 



   3.   A person other than the City Attorney, before filing a civil
action pursuant to this Subsection, shall first file with the Ethics
Commission a written request for the Ethics Commission to commence the
action.  The request shall contain a statement of the grounds for believing
a cause of action exists.  The Ethics Commission shall respond within 40
days after receipt of the request, indicating whether it intends to file a
civil action.  If the Ethics Commission indicates in the affirmative and
files an action within 40 days thereafter, no other action may be brought
unless the action brought by the Ethics Commission is dismissed without
prejudice.



 



   4.   In determining the amount of liability, the court may take into
account the seriousness of the violation and the degree of culpability of the
defendant.  If a judgment is entered against the defendant or defendants in
an action, a private plaintiff shall receive 50 percent of the amount
recovered.  The remaining 50 percent shall be deposited into the City's
General Fund.  In an action brought by the City Attorney or the Ethics
Commission, the entire amount shall be paid to the General Fund.



 



   5.   An action alleging a violation of this article may not be filed
more than four years after the date the violation occurred.



 



   6.   The court may award to a party other than an agency who
prevails in a civil action that party's costs of litigation, including
reasonable attorney fees.  If the costs are awarded against the City, the
payment of the award is the responsibility of the City, subject to City
Council approval.



 



   C.   Injunctive Relief.  A person residing within the City,
including the City Attorney, may sue for injunctive relief to enjoin
violations of or to compel compliance with this Article.



 



   D.   Administrative Penalties.  The Commission may impose penalties
and issue orders for violations of this Article pursuant to its authority
under Charter Section 706(c).



 



   E.   Discipline.  An appointed City official or agency employee who
violates a provision of this Article shall be subject to administrative
discipline by his or her appointing authority.  Such discipline shall be
administered in accordance with procedures prescribed by law or established
by City policy.  The Commission shall notify an agency when one of its City
officials or employees is found to be in violation of this Article.



 



   F.   Other Governmental Entities.  If a governmental entity that is
required to adopt a conflict of interests code subject to City Council
approval but is not otherwise within the City's control adopts governmental
ethics regulations governing the conduct of its current or former officers or
employees, violations of those regulations are subject to civil and
administrative enforcement and discipline under Subsections B. through E.



 



 



SEC. 49.5.17.  LATE FILING PENALTIES.



 



   In addition to any other penalties, a person who files an original
statement or report after a deadline imposed by this Article is liable to the
Ethics Commission in the amount of $25 per day after the deadline until the
statement or report is filed, up to a maximum of $500.  Liability need not
be enforced by the Ethics Commission if its executive officer determines that
the late filing was not willful and that enforcement of the liability will
not further the purposes of the Article.  Liability may not be waived if a
statement or report is not filed within 30 days after receiving notice from
the Ethics Commission staff that the statement or report is past due.



 



 



SEC. 49.5.18.  AUTHORITY TO ENACT.



 



   This article is enacted pursuant to and under the authority of the City
Charter, California Government Code Sections 1125 et seq., California
Government Code Section 81013, and California Constitution, Article XI,
Section 5.



 



 



SEC. 49.5.19.  RECORDKEEPING.



 



   Persons subject to this Article shall keep records that demonstrate
compliance with this Article and the related provisions of the Political
Reform Act and the City Charter for four years.



 



 



SEC. 49.5.20.  SEVERABILITY.



 



   The provisions of this Article are severable.  If any provision of
this Article or its application to any person or circumstances is held
invalid by a court, the remainder of this Article and the application of the
provision to other persons or circumstances is not affected by that
determination, to the extent that the provision or its application can be
given effect.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 9.7
CAMPAIGN FINANCING



 




(Article Amended in Entirety by Ord. No. 182,264, Eff. 10/29/12.)




 



 



Section



49.7.1   Relation to the City Charter.



49.7.2   Definitions.



49.7.3   Charter-Based Adjustments.



49.7.4   Aggregation of Contributions and Expenditures.



49.7.5   Family Contributions.



49.7.6   Text Message Contributions.



49.7.7   Receipt of Contributions.



49.7.9   Loans and Credit.



49.7.10   Fundraising Windows.



49.7.11   Solicitation and Delivery of Campaign Contributions.



49.7.12   Training for Candidates and Treasurers.



49.7.13   Committees to Oppose Recall Petitions.



49.7.14   Campaign Statement Filing Deadlines.



49.7.15   Committee Information.



49.7.16   Contributor Information.



49.7.17   Filing and Recordkeeping Requirements.



49.7.18   Reproduction of Materials.



49.7.19   Officeholder Committees.



49.7.20   Legal Defense Committees.



49.7.21   Disclosure by Officeholder and Legal Defense Committees.



49.7.22   Acceptance or Rejection of Matching Funds.



49.7.23   Participation and Qualification Requirements.



49.7.24   Expenditure Ceilings.



49.7.25   Expenditure Ceilings Lifted.



49.7.26   Notice Regarding Expenditure Ceilings.



49.7.27   Matching Funds Formula.



49.7.28   Requests for Matching Funds Payments.



49.7.29   Maximum Matching Funds.



49.7.30   Matching Funds Payments to Candidates.



49.7.31   Disclosure of Independent Expenditure Communications.



49.7.32   Disclosure of Campaign, Officeholder, and Legal Defense
Communications.



49.7.33   Disclaimers on Political Communications.



49.7.34   Social Media Accounts.



49.7.35   Bidder Contribution and Fundraising Restrictions.



49.7.36   Underwriter Contribution and Fundraising Restrictions.



49.7.37   Developer Contribution Restrictions.



49.7.38   Recordkeeping.



49.7.39   Enforcement.



49.7.40   Late Filing Penalties.



49.7.41   Severability.



 



 



SEC. 49.7.1.  RELATION TO THE CITY CHARTER.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 183,236, Eff. 10/30/14.)



 



   The provisions of this Article are in addition to and supplement the
regulations contained in Charter Sections 470, 471, 609(e) and 700, et seq.



 



 



SEC. 49.7.2.  DEFINITIONS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 183,236, Eff. 10/30/14.)



 



   The following terms have the meanings identified below. Other terms
used in this Article have the meanings identified in the Political Reform Act.



 



   A.   “Behested” means made at the request of, at the suggestion
of, with the cooperation of, in concert with, in consultation with, in
coordination with, under the direction of, or under any arrangement with a
candidate or candidate’s City controlled committee.



 



   1.   There is a rebuttable presumption that a communication is
behested in any of the following circumstances:



 



   a.   The communicator and the candidate retain the same individual
or entity to provide non-ministerial, campaign-related professional services,
including but not limited to polling, campaign research, media consultation
or production, direct mail consultation, and fundraising, in the same
election cycle.



 



   b.   The communication reproduces or redistributes, in whole or
substantial part, a campaign, officeholder, or legal defense communication.



 



   c.   The communication includes information about a candidate’s
campaign plans, projects, or needs that is not generally available to the
public or is provided directly or indirectly by the candidate.



 



   d.   The communicator discusses or negotiates the communication with
the candidate.



 



   e.   The communicator is serving or has served in a formal advisory
or policy-making position with the candidate or has participated in strategic
or policy-making discussions with the candidate regarding the pursuit of
nomination or election to office and, in the same election cycle, the
candidate is pursuing the office that the campaign communication is intended
to influence.



 



   f.   The communication is made in connection with fundraising events
or campaign activities co-sponsored by the candidate and the communicator.



 



   2.   None of the following circumstances is sufficient in and of
itself to constitute a behested campaign, officeholder, or legal defense
communication:



 



   a.   The communicator interviews the candidate regarding legislative
or policy issues that affect the communicator or discusses campaign-related
issues with the candidate but does not communicate with the candidate
regarding the communication.



 



   b.   The communicator solicits or obtains a photograph, biography,
position paper, press release, or similar material from the candidate and,
without the candidate’s prior knowledge, uses that material in the
communication.



 



   c.   The communicator made a contribution to the candidate or the
candidate's City controlled committee.



 



   d.   The communicator communicates to the candidate the intent to
make a communication but does not discuss or negotiate the communication with
the candidate.



 



   e.   A member of a communicator organization provides volunteer
services to or works for the affected candidate’s campaign.  This
exception does not apply if the member was also involved in the activities of
the communicator’s political action committee, makes payments on behalf of
the communicator, is serving or has served the candidate in a formal advisory
or policy-making position, or is making or has engaged in strategic or
policy-making discussions with the candidate.



 



   f.   The communication was made in response to an unsolicited
request from a political party leader or an agent of the leader.



 



   g.   The communicator employs or is under contract with a political
consultant or pollster who previously rendered services to the candidate.



 



   3.   "Communicator" means a person who makes or incurs an
expenditure for a communication or causes a communication to be distributed
or displayed. Reference to a communicator includes the communicator's agent.
Reference to a candidate includes the candidate's agent and City controlled
committees.



 



   B.   "Campaign communication" means a communication that expressly
advocates the election or defeat of a clearly identified City candidate or
ballot measure or, taken as a whole and in context, unambiguously urges a
particular result in a City election and is authorized, distributed, paid
for, or behested by a candidate for elected City office, or by a City
controlled committee, a City recall committee, or a City ballot measure
committee.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,362, Eff. 1/30/13.)



 



   C.   "City controlled committee" means a committee created for City
purposes and controlled by an elected City officer or a candidate for elected
City office. The term includes City campaign committees, officeholder
committees, legal defense committees, and recall and ballot measure
committees. The term does not include a committee created for election to or
the holding of a non-City office.  (Amended by Ord. No. 183,414, Eff.
3/13/15.)



 



   D.   "City official" has the same meaning as in Section 49.5.2(C).



 



   E.   “Citywide office” means the offices of City Attorney,
Controller, or Mayor.



 



   F.   “Communication” means a message that conveys information or
views in a scripted or reproduceable format, including but not limited to
paper, audio, video, telephone, electronic, Internet, Web logs, and social
media.



 



   G.   “Elected City office” means the office of City Council
member, City Attorney, Controller, or Mayor.



 



   H.   “Elected City officer” means a person who holds elected
City office, whether appointed or elected.



 



   I.   "Fiscal Year" means the 12-month period beginning July 1 and
ending June 30.  (Added and subsequent subsections renumbered by Ord. No.
183,414, Eff. 3/13/15.)



 



   J.   “Fundraising event” means an event designed for political
fundraising, at which contributions for an elected City officer, a candidate
for elected City office, or a City controlled committee are solicited or
received.



 



   K.   "General election" means a regular or special general municipal
election at which an elected City office or a City measure is on the ballot.



 



   L.   “Independent expenditure communication” means a
communication that expressly advocates the election or defeat of a clearly
identified City candidate or ballot measure or, taken as a whole and in
context, unambiguously urges a particular result in a City election and is
not authorized, distributed, paid for, or behested by the affected candidate
or committee.  The term includes member communications, as defined in the
Political Reform Act, if any of the following applies:  (Amended by Ord. No.
182,362, Eff. 1/30/13.)



 



   1.   The communication is not a type that is routinely distributed
by the member organization;



 



   2.   The communication is not directed solely to and intended only
for the member organization’s own members; or



 



   3.   The cost of the communication exceeds the amount that the
member organization routinely spends for that type of communication.



 



   M.   "Legal defense communication" means a communication authorized,
distributed, paid for, or behested by a legal defense committee or the person
who controls the committee.  (Amended by Ord. No. 183,414, Eff. 3/13/15.)



 



   N.   "Non-participating candidate" means a candidate for elected
City office who has not agreed to participate in the public matching funds
program, has subsequently declined to participate in the public matching
funds program, or has been disqualified from participating in the public
matching funds program.



 



   O.   "Officeholder communication" means a communication authorized,
distributed, paid for, or behested by an officeholder committee or the person
who controls the committee.  (Amended by Ord. No. 183,414, Eff. 3/13/15.)



 



   P.   "Participating candidate" means a candidate for elected City
office who has agreed to participate in the public matching funds program,
has filed a statement of acceptance of matching funds, has not subsequently
declined to participate in the matching funds program, and has not been
disqualified from participating in the matching funds program.



 



   Q.   “Political communication” means a campaign communication,
an independent expenditure communication, a legal defense communication, or
an officeholder communication.



 



   R.   “Political Reform Act” means the California Political
Reform Act of 1974 (California Government Code Sections 81000 et seq.) and
the related regulations of the California Fair Political Practices Commission.



 



   S.   "Primary election" means a regular or special primary
nominating election at which an elected City office or a City measure is on
the ballot.



 



   T.   "Qualified contribution" means a contribution meets all of the
following criteria:



 



   1.   The contribution is lawful under federal, state and City law.



 



   2.   The contribution was received by a participating candidate.



 



   3.   The contribution was not received from the participating
candidate or the participating candidate's immediate family.



 



   4.   The contribution was received from an individual.



 



   5.   The contribution is monetary and is not a loan or pledge.



 



   6.   The contribution was received no later than three months after
the date of the election, no earlier than the opening of the applicable
fundraising window in Section 49.7.10, and no earlier than the date on which
the candidate filed a Declaration of Intent to Solicit and Receive
Contributions for that election.  (Amended by Ord. No. 185,923, Eff.
1/28/19.)



 



 



SEC. 49.7.3.  CHARTER-BASED ADJUSTMENTS.



    (Amended by Ord. No. 185,923, Eff. 1/28/19.)



 



   The Ethics Commission has a duty under Charter Section 702(h) to
annually adjust limitations and disclosure thresholds in City law to reflect
changes in the Consumer Price Index (CPI).



 



   A.   The duty applies to the following provisions in the City's
campaign finance laws:



 



   1.   The per-person limits on campaign contributions in Charter
Sections 470(c)(3) and 470(c)(4).



 



   2.   The per-person limits on loans in Charter Section 470(c)(8).



 



   3.   The aggregate limits on campaign contributions from
non-individuals in Charter Section 470(c)(7).



 



   4.   The per-person limit on cash contributions in Charter Section
470(d).



 



   5.   The aggregate limit on anonymous contributions in Charter
Section 470(e).



 



   6.   The limit on expressions of congratulations or condolences by
an officeholder committee in Section 49.7.19 D.12.



 



   7.   The aggregate limits on contributions and transfers to and
expenditures by a City Council officeholder committee in Sections 49.7.19
G.1. - 3.



 



   8.   The aggregate limits on contributions to and expenditures by a
Citywide officeholder committee in Sections 49.7.19 H.1. - 3.



 



   9.   The limits on the expenditure of personal funds in a campaign
in Section 49.7.23 C.5.



 



   10.   The limits on expenditures by a participating candidate in
Section 49.7.24.



 



   11.   The independent expenditure threshold that lifts the
expenditure ceilings for a participating candidate in Section 49.7.25.



 



   12.   The maximum matching funds available to a participating
candidate in a primary election in Section 49.7.29 A.



 



   13.   The maximum matching funds available to a participating
candidate in a general election in Section 49.7.29 B.



 



   B.   Pursuant to Charter Sections 240, 470(f) and 702(h), the
following apply to CPI adjustments.



 



   1.   The adjustments shall be automatically calculated and published
by the Ethics Commission staff no later than March 1 of each year.



 



   2.   Adjustments shall reflect the percent change in CPI for All
Urban Consumers that is published by the United States Bureau of Labor
Statistics for the region that includes the Los Angeles metropolitan area
from December 2011 to the December immediately prior to the adjustment using
the following formula:  divide the CPI for the December immediately prior to
the adjustment by 231.567 (the CPI for December 2011); multiply the resulting
number by each value below; and round as specified in Subdivision 3.



 



   a.   $700 for the per-person limits on contributions and loans to
a  City Council candidate.



 



   b.   $1,300 for the per-person limits on contributions and loans to
a Citywide candidate.



 



   c.   The following aggregate limits on non-individual contributions:



 



   i.   $202,300 to a City Council candidate.



 



   ii.   $539,400 to a City Attorney and a Controller candidate.



 



   iii.   $1,213,800 to a Mayoral candidate.



 



   d.   $25 for the per-person limit on cash contributions.



 



   e.   $200 for the aggregate limit on anonymous contributions.



 



   f.   $140 for the limit on expressions of congratulations or
condolence by an officeholder committee.



 



   g.   $93,000 for the aggregate limits on contributions and transfers
to and expenditures by a City Council officeholder committee.



 



   h.   $150,000 for the aggregate limits on contributions and
transfers to and expenditures by a Citywide officeholder committee.



 



   i.   The following limits on the expenditure of personal funds by a
participating candidate:



 



   i.   $31,100 for a City Council candidate.



 



   ii.   $124,500 for a Citywide candidate.



 



   j.   The following expenditure limits for a participating candidate
in a primary election:



 



   i.   $480,000 for a City Council candidate.



 



   ii.   $1,119,000 for a Controller candidate.



 



   iii.   $1,259,000 for a City Attorney candidate.



 



   iv.   $2,798,000 for a Mayoral candidate.



 



   k.   The following expenditure limits for a participating candidate
in a general election:



 



   i.   $400,000 for a City Council candidate.



 



   ii.   $840,000 for a Controller candidate.



 



   iii.   $979,000 for a City Attorney candidate.



 



   iv.   $2,237,000 for a Mayoral candidate.



 



   l.   The following independent expenditure thresholds that lift the
expenditure limits for a participating candidate:



 



   i.   $77,000 in a City Council race.



 



   ii.   $155,000 in a Controller and a City Attorney race.



 



   iii.   $309,000 in a Mayoral race.



 



   m.   The following maximum matching funds for a participating
candidate in a primary election:



 



   i.   $135,000 for a City Council candidate.



 



   ii.   $360,000 for a Controller candidate.



 



   iii.   $405,000 for a City Attorney candidate.



 



   iv.   $900,000 for a Mayoral candidate.



 



   n.   The following maximum matching funds for a participating
candidate in a general election:



 



   i.   $169,000 for a City Council candidate.



 



   ii.   $405,000 for a Controller candidate.



 



   iii.   $472,000 for a City Attorney candidate.



 



   iv.   $1,079,000 for a Mayoral candidate.



 



   3.   Adjustments shall be rounded as follows:



 



   a.   To the nearest $10 for the values in Subsections B.2.d. and
B.2.f.



 



   b.   To the nearest $100 for the values in Subsections B.2.a.,
B.2.b., B.2.c. and B.2.e.



 



   c.   To the nearest $1,000 for the values in Subsections B.2.g.
through B.2.n.



 



 



SEC. 49.7.4.  AGGREGATION OF CONTRIBUTIONS AND EXPENDITURES.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 183,236, Eff. 10/30/14.)



 



   For purposes of the limitations, prohibitions, and requirements
contained in Charter Section 470 and this Article, contributions and
expenditures from the following sets of persons will be aggregated and
considered to be made by a single person. An aggregated contribution may not
exceed the lowest contribution allowed for either person:



 



   A.   Two persons when one controls the other's contribution activity.



 



   B.   A business entity and another person when the person
participates in the business entity's decision to make a contribution, is
personally prohibited from making the contribution, and holds an ownership
interest of at least 20 percent in the business entity.



 



   C.   A sponsored committee, as defined in Government Code Section
82048.7, and its sponsoring organization.



 



   D.   A committee and another person when the person participates in
the committee's decision to make a contribution, is personally prohibited
from making the contribution, and provides (along or in conjunction with
other similarly prohibited persons) 20 percent or more of the committee's
funding.



 



   E.   Two entities when the same individuals constitute a majority of
each entity’s board of directors.



 



   F.   Two entities that share the same officers or a majority of
officers.  For the purposes of this Subsection, an officer does not include
an individual who serves only as a member of the entity’s board of
directors.



 



   G.   A corporation or limited liability company that shares the same
majority shareholders or members as or holds a majority of the voting rights
in another corporation or limited liability company.



 



   H.   Two corporations in a parent-subsidiary relationship, provided
that at least one of the corporations is not publicly traded.



 



   I.   An individual and a corporation, limited liability company,
firm, joint venture, syndicate, business trust, company, or other business
entity other than a sole proprietorship or a general or limited partnership,
in which the individual owns an investment of 50 percent or more, or holds a
majority of the voting rights.



 



   J.   An individual and a sole proprietorship owned by the individual.



 



   K.   A general partner and a general or limited partnership in which
the general partner owns an investment of 50 percent or more, or holds a
majority of the voting rights.



 



 



SEC. 49.7.5.  FAMILY CONTRIBUTIONS.



 



   A.   Contributions by two spouses are separate contributions.



 



   B.   There is a rebuttable presumption that contributions by
children under 18 years of age are contributions by their parents.  Unless
sufficiently rebutted, the contributions will be attributed proportionately
to each custodial parent or entirely to a single custodial parent.



 



 



SEC. 49.7.6.  TEXT MESSAGE CONTRIBUTIONS.



 



   A.   A contribution may be made via short message service (SMS),
multimedia messaging service (MMS), or other similar text messaging
technology.



 



   B.   The following apply to a contribution made via SMS, MMS, or
text messaging:



 



   1.   The contribution shall be subject to the same disclosure and
recordkeeping requirements and, for participating candidates, the same
matching funds requirements, that apply to contributions made by other means.



 



   2.   The contribution may not exceed the applicable limitation on
cash contributions.



 



   3.   The contribution is treated as a pledge and is deemed received
when a candidate for elected City office or the candidate’s controlled
committee obtains control of the contribution.



 



   C.   City equipment may not be used to make a contribution via SMS,
MMS, or text messaging.



 



 



SEC. 49.7.7.  RECEIPT OF CONTRIBUTIONS.



 



   A contribution shall not be considered to be received if it is not
negotiated, deposited, or utilized, and is returned to the donor within 14
days of the date the candidate or committee takes possession or control or
receives the benefit of the contribution.



 



 



SEC. 49.7.8.  TREATMENT OF PAYMENTS.



   (Repealed by Ord. No. 183,414, Eff. 3/13/15.)



 



 



SEC. 49.7.9.  LOANS AND CREDIT.



 



   A.   A loan is a contribution from the maker and the guarantor of
the loan and is subject to any applicable contribution limitations of Charter
Section 470 and this Article.



 



   B.   A loan to a candidate or a City controlled committee shall be
by written agreement and shall be filed with the campaign statement on which
the loan is first reported.



 



   C.   The proceeds of a loan made to a candidate by a commercial
lending institution in the regular course of business on the same terms
available to members of the public and which is secured or guaranteed is not
a contribution within the meaning of the contribution limitations of Charter
Section 470 and this Article.



 



   D.   Credit (other than a loan referred to in Subsection C.) that is
extended for a period of more than 90 days is subject to the contribution
limitations of Charter Section 470 and this Article.  A creditor who
demonstrates a commercially reasonable attempt to collect the debt is not
subject to the contribution limits for that debt.



 



   E.   Following an election, a candidate who is elected to City
office and made a personal loan to the candidate's controlled committees for
elected City office shall not repay the loan from those committees in excess
of the limitations on personal funds in Section 49.7.23 C.5.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 186,253, Eff. 9/24/19.)



 



   F.   An elected City officer who was a participating candidate and
made a personal loan to the candidate's controlled committees for elected
City office shall not repay the loan from those committees if the candidate
exceeded an applicable spending limit before the limit was lifted.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 186,253, Eff. 9/24/19.)



 



 



SEC. 49.7.10.  FUNDRAISING WINDOWS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 183,414, Eff. 3/13/15.)



 



   A.    In regular City elections, the following fundraising windows
apply:



 



   1.   A candidate for City Council and the candidate's controlled
committee for election to City office may not solicit or receive a
contribution from another person or cause a contribution from another person
to be solicited or received more than 18 months before the date of the
primary election at which the candidate seeks office.



 



   2.   A candidate for Citywide office and the candidate's controlled
committee for election to City office may not solicit or receive a
contribution from another person or cause a contribution from another person
to be solicited or received more than 24 months before the date of the
primary election at which the candidate seeks office.



 



   B.    In special City elections, a candidate for elected City office
and the candidate's controlled committee for election to City office may not
solicit or receive a contribution from another person or cause a contribution
from another person to be solicited or received before the election has been
ordered under Charter Section 409(b).



 



   C.   A candidate for elected City office and the candidate's
controlled committee for election to City office may not solicit or receive a
contribution from another person or cause a contribution from another person
to be solicited or received more than 12 months after the date that the
general election at which the candidate seeks City office either occurs or is
scheduled to occur. Contributions solicited or received or caused to be
solicited or received following an election shall be used only to retire the
candidate's or committee's campaign debt for that election, except to the
extent prohibited by Section 49.7.9, or to pay the candidate's or committee's
compliance, fundraising, or inauguration expenses for that election.



 



 



SEC. 49.7.11.  SOLICITATION AND DELIVERY OF CAMPAIGN CONTRIBUTIONS.



 



   A.   The following definitions apply to this Section.



 



   1.   “Personally deliver” means to deliver a contribution in
person or to cause a contribution to be delivered in person by an agent or
intermediary.



 



   2.   “Prohibited fundraising” means any of the following:



 



   a.   Requesting that another person make a contribution;



 



   b.   Inviting a person to a fundraising event;



 



   c.   Supplying names to be used for invitations to a fundraising
event;



 



   d.   Permitting one’s name or signature to appear on a
solicitation for contributions or an invitation to a fundraising event;



 



   e.   Permitting one’s official title to be used on a solicitation
for contributions or an invitation to a fundraising event;



 



   f.   Providing the use of one’s home or business for a fundraising
event;



 



   g.   Paying for at least 20 percent of the costs of a fundraising
event;



 



   h.   Hiring another person to conduct a fundraising event;



 



   i.   Delivering a contribution, other than one’s own, either by
mail or in person to an elected City officer, a candidate for elected City
office, or a City controlled committee; or



 



   j.   Acting as an agent or intermediary in connection with the
making of a contribution.



 



   B.   A person shall not do either of the following: (Amended by Ord.
No. 183,236, Eff. 10/30/14.)



 



   1.   Solicit contributions from a City official or employee to
support or oppose the candidacy of a person for elected City office, support
or oppose the recall of an elected City officer, or to contribute to an
officeholder committee or legal defense fund committee. This prohibition does
not apply when a person makes a solicitation to multiple persons if the
person unknowingly includes City officials or employees and City officials or
employees do not make up more than five percent of the total number of
persons included in that solicitation.



 



   2.   Solicit, receive, personally deliver, or attempt to personally
deliver a contribution in a room or building that is owned by the City or
paid for or used by the City and occupied by a City official or agency
employee in the discharge of City duties. This prohibition does not apply to
the following:



 



   a.   A City room or building that is available to the public for
organized campaign activities, as long as its use does not violate Section
49.5.5 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.



 



   b.   A contribution that is received by mail, if it is forwarded to
the candidate, the candidate's campaign treasurer, or the candidate's
controlled committee within seven working days of its receipt.



 



   C.   A member of a City board or commission who is required to file
a statement of economic interests or a general manager or chief
administrative officer of a City department shall not do either of the
following: (Amended by Ord. No. 183,236, Eff. 10/30/14.)



 



   1.   Solicit, direct, or receive a contribution from a person who
has or, in the preceding 12 months had, a matter involving City action
pending before the board or commission member or general manager, or chief
administrative officer.



 



   2.   Engage in prohibited fundraising on behalf of an elected City
officer, a candidate for elected City office, or a City controlled committee.
This prohibition does not apply to members of City boards or commissions or
general managers, or chief administrative officers who are engaging in
fundraising on behalf of their own candidacies for elected office.



 



 



SEC. 49.7.12.  TRAINING FOR CANDIDATES AND TREASURERS.



 



   Every candidate for elected City office and every treasurer of a
candidate’s City controlled committee shall attend a training program
conducted or sponsored by the Ethics Commission prior to the election at
which the candidate’s name will appear on the ballot.



 



 



SEC. 49.7.13.  COMMITTEES TO OPPOSE RECALL PETITIONS.



 



   An elected City officer who is the subject of a recall petition may
create a City ballot measure committee to oppose the recall petition.  That
committee is subject to the same contribution limitations and other
requirements as the committee to support the recall petition.



 



 



SEC. 49.7.14.  CAMPAIGN STATEMENT FILING DEADLINES.



 



   Every candidate for elected City office, each candidate's City
controlled committee, and each City recall committee, City ballot measure
committee, City general purpose committee, committee primarily formed to
support or oppose City candidates or City ballot measures, and every person
who makes independent expenditure communications in City elections and
qualify as a committee under the Political Reform Act shall file the campaign
statements required by the Political Reform Act and shall also file campaign
statements by the following dates prior to an election in which the candidate
or measure appears on the ballot: (Amended by Ord. No. 183,236, Eff.
10/30/14.)



 



   A.   The Friday before an election, covering activity from the close
of the reporting period for the previous campaign statement through the
Wednesday before the election.  (Amended by Ord. No. 186,110, Eff. 6/13/19.)



 



   B.   October 10, covering activity from July 1 through September 30
in the year prior to a City primary election that is held in March. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 186,110, Eff. 6/13/19.)



 



   C.   January 10, covering activity from October 1 through December
31 in the year prior to a City primary election that is held in March. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 186,110, Eff. 6/13/19.)



 



 



SEC. 49.7.15.  COMMITTEE INFORMATION.



   (Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 183,236, Eff. 10/30/14.)



 



   A.   In addition to the information required by state law, every
person identified in Subsection C. shall file with the Ethics Commission,
concurrently with the filing of the Declaration of Intent to Solicit and
Receive Contributions, every non-governmental email address, website, and
social media account the person maintains to communicate regarding City
elections.  (Amended by Ord. No. 186,253, Eff. 9/24/19.)



 



   B.   If any of the information in Subsection A. changes, the person
shall file amended information within ten calendar days after the change
occurs.



 



   C.   This section applies to every candidate for elected City
office, the candidate's City controlled committees, and each City recall
committee, City ballot measure committee, City general purpose committee,
committee primarily formed to support or oppose City candidates or City
ballot measures, and every person who makes independent expenditure
communications in City elections and qualify as a committee under the
Political Reform Act.



 



 



SEC. 49.7.16.  CONTRIBUTOR INFORMATION.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 185,923, Eff. 1/28/19.)



 



   A.   A contribution may not be deposited into the checking account
of a City controlled committee unless the following is on file in the
committee's records:



 



   1.   For an individual, the contributor's name, address, occupation,
employer (or name of business if self-employed) and certification in
Subsection B.



 



   2.   For a non-individual, the contributor's name, address and
certification in Subsection B.



 



   B.   A contributor shall certify the following information under
penalty of perjury:



 



   1.   The contribution is not being made under a false name, is not
being made under another person's name, and has not been and will not be
reimbursed;



 



   2.   The contribution does not cause the contributor to cumulatively
or in the aggregate exceed the applicable contribution limit in Section
49.7.3 B.2.a., 49.7.3 B.2.b., 49.7.19 F. or 49.7.20 B.3.;



 



   3.   The contribution is not from a person who is prohibited from
contributing, including the following:  (Amended by Ord. No. 186,477, Eff.
1/23/20.)



 



   a.   A lobbyist or lobbying firm that is prohibited from
contributing under Charter Section 470(c)(11);



 



   b.   A bidder, sub-contractor, principal, or underwriting firm that
is prohibited from contributing under Charter Section 470(c)(12) or Charter
Section 609(e); and



 



   c.   A restricted developer that is prohibited from contributing
under Section 49.7.37.



 



   4.   Whether the contribution is being made with business funds or
an individual's personal funds.



 



   5.   For an individual, whether the address provided is the
contributor's residence address.



 



   6.   The information provided regarding address, occupation and
employer is correct.



 



   C.   Obtaining the certification in Subsection B. is evidence that
the committee that received the contribution acted in good faith.



 



   D.   This section does not apply to contributions limited by Section
49.7.3 B.2.e.



 



 



SEC. 49.7.17.  FILING AND RECORDKEEPING REQUIREMENTS.



 



   A.   A person required by the Charter or this Article to file a
document or other item with the Ethics Commission shall do so in a method
prescribed by the Ethics Commission. (Amended by Ord. No. 183,236, Eff.
10/30/14.)



 



   1.   If an electronic filing is required, the Ethics Commission
shall provide a unique identifier to the person who is required to file, to
be used in place of a physical signature for submitting and verifying data
under penalty of perjury.  An electronic filing shall be presumed to be
filed under penalty of perjury by the filer.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,362,
Eff. 1/30/13.)



 



   2.   If a paper filing is required, it shall contain the physical
signature of the person who is required to file.  It is considered filed on
the earlier of the date of receipt by the Ethics Commission or the date of
the postmark if it is mailed and bears the correct address and postage.



 



   B.   A City campaign, officeholder, legal defense, recall, ballot
measure, primarily formed, or general purpose committee shall file campaign
statements electronically once the committee has received contributions or
made expenditures of $10,000 or more.  This requirement continues until the
committee is no longer required to file campaign statements with the Ethics
Commission.  A person who is not required to file electronically, may do so
voluntarily.



 



   C.   A person required by the Charter or this Article to file a
document or other item with the Ethics Commission, shall prepare and retain
detailed records (including bills, receipts, and other documents) needed to
comply with the filing requirement.  The records shall be retained for at
least four years following the filing deadline.



 



 



SEC. 49.7.18.  REPRODUCTION OF MATERIALS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 183,236, Eff. 10/30/14.)



 



   A person who reproduces, broadcasts, or distributes in whole or
substantial part any material that is drafted, printed, prepared, or
previously broadcast or distributed by a candidate or a committee has made a
non-monetary contribution to the candidate or committee. If the material that
is reproduced is that of a candidate or a City controlled committee, the
person who reproduced the material shall notify the candidate or City
controlled committee of the reproduction. A candidate or committee whose
material was reproduced is not liable for any violations resulting from the
reproduction if it provides sufficient evidence to show that it had no prior
knowledge of the reproduction.



 



 



SEC. 49.7.19.  OFFICEHOLDER COMMITTEES.



   (Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 183,414, Eff. 3/13/15.)



 



   A.   To effectively serve and fulfill their responsibilities to
residents of the City, elected City officers communicate with constituents,
undertake efforts to assure efficient City services, and engage in
professional development activities. To accomplish these duties and
responsibilities, an elected City officer may control one officeholder
committee to pay for expenses that relate to carrying out the duties
associated with holding elected City office.



 



   B.   An individual may establish an officeholder committee once the
City Clerk has certified election results indicating that the individual has
been elected to City office.



 



   C.   The committee shall establish one checking account at an office
of a financial institution located in the City. All contributions received in
connection with the officeholder committee shall be deposited into that
account.



 



   D.   An officeholder committee may not make or incur an expenditure
unless it is related to assisting, serving, or communicating with
constituents or otherwise made in connection with the official City duties of
the elected City officer and it falls into one or more of the following
categories:



 



   1.   Fundraising for the officeholder committee.



 



   2.   Office equipment, furnishings, supplies, and rent.



 



   3.   Compensation of staff employed by the officeholder committee to
provide services to the committee.



 



   4.   Consulting, research, polling, photography, video or audio
recording, and similar services.



 



   5.   Events, including but not limited to meetings, meals,
conferences, and receptions, that are attended in the performance of
governmental duties by the elected City officer or a member of the elected
City officer's staff. These expenditures may include the following:



 



   a.   Fees for materials, registration, or admission.



 



   b.   Transportation to and from the event.



 



   c.   Food and beverages during the event.



 



   d.   Lodging, food and beverages, and other travel-related
expenditures the day prior to, the day of, and the day following the event if
the attendee cannot reasonably be housed at home. These expenditures also may
be incurred and made for members of the elected City officer's immediate
family and household.



 



   e.   Site fees, advertising brochures, invitations, materials and
refreshments distributed to attendees, equipment, services, and other
incidental expenses for events that are officially hosted or sponsored by the
elected City officer.



 



   6.   Donations to an organization that has received a federal tax
exemption under Internal Revenue Code Section 501(c)(3) when a majority of
the expenditure can be deducted as a charitable deduction for federal income
tax purposes. A donation may be the purchase of tickets to a charitable
event, provided that no substantial part of the proceeds from the event will
personally benefit the elected City officer, a member of the elected City
officer's immediate family or household, a member of the elected City
officer's staff, the officeholder committee, or the officeholder committee's
treasurer.



 



   7.   Membership of the elected City officer or a member of the
elected City officer's staff to a civic or professional organization if the
membership serves a governmental or legislative purpose.



 



   8.   An educational course or seminar that maintains or improves
skills employed by the elected City officer or a member of the elected City
officer's staff in the performance of governmental duties.



 



   9.   Advertisements and testimonials that do not support or oppose a
ballot measure or the nomination, election, or recall of a candidate for
elective office.



 



   10.   Officeholder communications that provide information related
to City-sponsored events, government services, the requirements of the law,
or the elected City officer's position on a City matter.



 



   11.   Admission to political events and related costs if both of the
following apply:



 



   a.   No substantial part of the proceeds will personally benefit the
elected City officer, a member of the elected City officer's immediate family
or household, a member of the elected City officer's staff, the officeholder
committee, or the officeholder committee's treasurer; and



 



   b.   The expenditure does not violate Subsection E.1.



 



   12.   Expressions of congratulations, appreciation, or condolence
for constituents, employees, governmental officials, or other individuals
with whom the elected City officer communicates in an official capacity. No
more than $140 may be expended per individual recipient per event. This
amount is subject to adjustment under Section 49.7.3.



 



   13.   Celebrations held by the elected City officer to honor or
thank members of the elected City officer's staff or in connection with a
holiday that are attended primarily by the elected City officer's staff.



 



   14.   Tax liabilities incurred by the officeholder committee.



 



   15.   Accounting, legal, and administrative services provided to the
officeholder committee.



 



   16.   Unforeseen obligations of the elected City officer's campaign
committee that came to the attention of the elected City officer after the
campaign committee was closed or redesignated.



 



   17.   An expenditure similar to the specified expenditures if, prior
to making the expenditure, the elected City officer or the officeholder
committee has received advice from the Ethics Commission that the expenditure
is permissible pursuant to this Subsection. The Ethics Commission shall
respond to requests for approval within five business days after a request is
received, unless the request is made under Charter Section 705(b).



 



   E.   Officeholder committees may not make or incur expenditures for
the following:



 



   1.   Expenditures to support or oppose a ballot measure or a
candidate for elective office.



 



   2.   Membership in an athletic, social, fraternal, veteran, or
religious organization.



 



   3.   Supplemental compensation for City employees for performing an
act required or expected of the employee in the regular course of City duties.



 



   4.   Expenditures that would violate Article 3 or 4 of Chapter 9.5
of Title 9 of the Government Code.



 



   F.   A person may not make, and an elected City officer or
officeholder committee may not solicit or accept or cause to be solicited or
accepted, a contribution to the officeholder committee from another person
that, during a fiscal year, causes cumulative contributions from that person
to exceed the per-person City campaign contribution limit that applies to the
elected City officer's elected City office under Section 49.7.3 B.2.a. or
Section 49.7.3 B.2.b.



 



   1.   If the per-person City campaign contribution limit increases
under Section 49.7.3, the new limit applies to contributions to the
officeholder committee during that fiscal year.



 



   2.   This Subsection does not prohibit an elected City officer from
obtaining a personal loan of any amount and duration from a licensed
financial lending institution in the regular course of business on the same
terms available to members of the public.



 



   G.   The following limitations apply to City Council members and
their officeholder committees.



 



   1.   A City Council member and a City Council member's officeholder
committee may not solicit or accept or cause to be solicited or accepted a
contribution from another person that would cause either of the following to
exceed $93,000 at any time during a fiscal year:



 



   a.   The amount of contributions from all persons to the
officeholder committee; or



 



   b.   The total outstanding balance of the officeholder committee's
funds.



 



   2.   Funds other than public matching funds that remain in another
City campaign or officeholder committee controlled by a City Council member
may be transferred into the City Council member's officeholder committee. The
amount of funds transferred shall not exceed $93,000 per fiscal year and
shall reduce by an equal amount the contributions that may be solicited by or
accepted for the officeholder committee during that fiscal year.



 



   3.   The officeholder committee may not make or incur expenditures
that cumulatively exceed $93,000 in a fiscal year.



 



   4.   Contributions solicited or received or caused to be solicited
or received after the City Council member leaves City Council office shall be
used only to retire the officeholder committee's debt.



 



   5.   The amounts in Paragraphs 1., 2., and 3. are subject to
adjustment under Section 49.7.3.



 



   H.   The following limitations apply to Citywide office holders and
their officeholder committees.



 



   1.   A Citywide office holder and a Citywide office holder's
officeholder committee may not solicit or accept or cause to be solicited or
accepted a contribution from another person that would cause either of the
following to exceed $150,000 at any time during a fiscal year:



 



   a.   The amount of contributions from all persons to the
officeholder committee; or



 



   b.   The total outstanding balance of the officeholder committee's
funds.



 



   2.   Funds other than public matching funds that remain in another
City campaign or officeholder committee controlled by a Citywide office
holder may be transferred into the Citywide office holder's officeholder
committee. The amount of funds transferred shall not exceed $150,000 per
fiscal year and shall reduce by an equal amount the contributions that may be
solicited by or accepted for the officeholder committee during that fiscal
year.



 



   3.   The officeholder committee may not make or incur expenditures
that cumulatively exceed $150,000 in a fiscal year.



 



   4.   Contributions solicited or received or caused to be solicited
or received after the Citywide office holder leaves Citywide office shall be
used only to retire the officeholder committee's debt.



 



   5.   The amounts in Paragraphs 1., 2., and 3. are subject to
adjustment under Section 49.7.3.



 



   I.   From the date the elected City officer files a Declaration of
Intention to Become a Candidate with the City Clerk's office through the date
of the last election for which the declaration was filed and the elected City
officer appears on the ballot or is a qualified write-in candidate, the
officeholder committee may make or incur only the following types of
expenditures:



 



   1.   Expenditures under Paragraphs 1., 2., 3., 6., 7., 8., 12., 13.,
14., 15., 16., and 17. of Subsection D.



 



   2.   Expenditures under Paragraph 5. of Subsection D. if the event
is attended primarily by the officeholder's staff in the conduct of official
City business.



 



   3.   Expenditures under Paragraph 10. of Subsection D. if both of
the following apply:



 



   a.   The officeholder communication does not consist of more than
200 substantially similar pieces; and



 



   b.   The officeholder communication does not contain the elected
City officer's name or photograph. This does not apply if the elected City
officer's name appears as part of an electronic mail or Internet address or
only once on a letterhead or envelope.



 



 



SEC. 49.7.20.  LEGAL DEFENSE COMMITTEES.



   (Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 183,414, Eff. 3/13/15.)



 



   A.   A current or former elected City officer or candidate for
elected City office may control one or more legal defense committees.



 



   1.   A legal defense committee may be used solely to defray
attorney's fees and other legal costs incurred in the legal defense of the
current or former elected City officer or candidate for elected City office
in a civil or criminal court case, an administrative proceeding, or an Ethics
Commission matter arising directly out of the conduct of a City election
campaign, the City's electoral process, or the performance of City duties.



 



   2.   The current or former elected City officer or candidate for
elected City office shall file with the Ethics Commission a Statement of
Purpose identifying the specific case, proceeding, or matter for which the
legal defense committee is established.



 



   3.   The legal defense committee shall be named "The [name of the
current or former elected City officer or candidate for elected City office]
Legal Defense Committee for [number of the case, proceeding, or matter or, if
a number does not exist, a brief description of the case, proceeding, or
matter]."



 



   B.   Contributions to legal defense committees are subject to the
following:



 



   1.   A current or former elected City officer or candidate for
elected City office may not solicit or accept a contribution or cause a
contribution to be solicited or accepted before the committee is established
and the Statement of Purpose has been filed.



 



   2.   The committee shall establish a separate checking account at an
office of a financial institution located in the City. All contributions
received by the legal defense committee shall be deposited into that account.



 



   3.   A person may not make and the committee or the person who
controls the committee may not solicit or accept or cause to be solicited or
accepted contributions from another person that, during a fiscal year,
cumulatively exceed the per-person campaign contribution limit that applies
to candidates for Citywide office under Section 49.7.3 B.2.b.



 



   a.   If the per-person contribution limit applicable to candidates
for Citywide office increases under Section 49.7.3, the new limit applies to
contributions to the committee during that fiscal year.



 



   b.   This paragraph does not prohibit the person who controls the
committee from obtaining a personal loan of any amount and duration from a
licensed financial lending institution in the regular course of business on
the same terms available to members of the public.



 



   C.   Expenditures by a legal defense committee are subject to the
following:



 



   1.   An expenditure must be related to the case, proceeding, or
matter identified in the Statement of Purpose.



 



   2.   All expenditures by the committee must be made from the
committee's checking account.



 



   3.   Within 180 days after the final conclusion of the case,
proceeding, or matter and the payment of all debts incurred in connection
with that case, proceeding, or matter, funds remaining in the committee's
checking account shall be disposed of by repayment of contributions to
contributors, by transfer to another legal defense committee, or by payment
to the City's General Fund.



 



   D.   This Section is the sole authority for soliciting or accepting
contributions for the defense of a current or former elected City officer or
candidate for elected City office in a case, proceeding, or matter arising
out of a City election campaign, the City's electoral process, or the
performance of City duties.



 



 



SEC. 49.7.21.  DISCLOSURE BY OFFICEHOLDER AND LEGAL DEFENSE COMMITTEES.



   (Title Amended by Ord. No. 183,414, Eff. 3/13/15.)



 



   In addition to the campaign statements required by the Political Reform
Act and Section 49.7.14, an elected City officer or a candidate for elected
City office who controls an officeholder or legal defense committee shall
file campaign statements for that committee as follows:  (Amended by Ord.
No. 183,414, Eff. 3/13/15.)



 



   A.   Except as specified in Subsection B., quarterly statements
shall be filed no later than the following dates:



 



   1.   April 30 for the quarter ending March 31;



 



   2.   July 31 for the quarter ending June 30;



 



   3.   October 31 for the quarter ending September 30; and



 



   4.   January 31 for the quarter ending December 31.



 



   B.   When the officeholder or candidate has filed a Declaration of
Intent to Solicit and Receive Contributions for a City election, quarterly
statements shall be filed no later than the following dates:  (Amended by
Ord. No. 186,110, Eff. 6/13/19.)



 



   1.   During the year prior to the election:



 



   a.   April 30 for the quarter ending March 31;



 



   b.   July 31 for the quarter ending June 30;



 



   c.   October 10 for the quarter ending September 30; and



 



   d.   January 10 for the quarter ending December 31.



 



   2.   During the year of the election:



 



   a.   The Friday before the election, covering activity from the
close of the reporting period for the previous campaign statement through the
Wednesday before the election;



 



   b.   April 30, covering activity for the quarter ending March 31 but
excluding any activity disclosed in a previous campaign statement; and



 



   c.   January 31 of the following year, covering activity for the
quarter ending December 31 but excluding any activity disclosed in a previous
campaign statement.



 



   C.   Statements for officeholder committees shall identify the
following information.  (Added by Ord. No. 183,414, Eff. 3/13/15.)



 



   1.   For each individual for whom the committee pays or reimburses
travel expenses totaling $100 or more for a single event:



 



   a.   The name of the recipient;



 



   b.   The legislative or governmental purpose of the travel;



 



   c.   The dates of the recipient's departure and return;



 



   d.   The event attended;



 



   e.   The dates of the event;



 



   f.   The location of the event, including city and state or country;



 



   g.   The date and amount of each expenditure; and



 



   h.   The name and address of the payee for each expenditure.



 



   2.   For each individual who receives food or beverage totaling $50
or more paid for or reimbursed by the committee at a single event:



 



   a.   The name of the recipient;



 



   b.   The government business conducted;



 



   c.   The date and amount of each expenditure;



 



   d.   The name and address of the payee for each expenditure; and



 



   e.   The name and address of each source of the food and beverage,
if different from the payees.



 



   3.   For each individual who receives an expression of
congratulations, appreciation, or condolence of $50 or more paid for or
reimbursed by the committee:



 



   a.   The name of the recipient;



 



   b.   The purpose of the expenditure;



 



   c.   The date and amount of the expenditure; and



 



   d.   The name and address of the payee for the expenditure.



 



   4.   For each event hosted or sponsored under Section 49.7.19 D.5.
and 13. for which the committee makes or incurs expenditures totaling $100 or
more:



 



   a.   The purpose of the event;



 



   b.   The estimated number of event attendees;



 



   c.   The date of the event;



 



   d.   The location of the event, including city and state or country;



 



   e.   The date and amount of each expenditure of $50 or more; and



 



   f.   The name and address of the payee for each expenditure of $50
or more.



 



   D.   Reporting is required until a committee is closed or
redesignated.  (Added by Ord. No. 183,414, Eff. 3/13/15.)



 



   1.   An officeholder committee must be closed or redesignated within
180 days after the elected City officer leaves elected City office.



 



   2.   A legal defense committee must be closed within 180 days after
the final conclusion of the case, proceeding, or matter identified in the
Statement of Purpose and all debts incurred in connection with that case,
proceeding, or matter have been paid.



 



 



SEC. 49.7.22.  ACCEPTANCE OR REJECTION OF MATCHING FUNDS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 183,236, Eff. 10/30/14.)



 



   A.   Each candidate for elected City office shall file with the
Ethics Commission a statement of acceptance or rejection of matching funds.
The statement may not be filed earlier than the date the candidate files a
Declaration of Intent to Solicit and Receive Contributions under Charter
Section 470(c)(1) and may not be filed later than the final date to file a
Declaration of Intention to Become a Candidate under City Election Code
Section 301.



 



   B.   A candidate who agrees to accept matching funds shall comply
with the requirements of the program, including, but not limited to, the
expenditure ceilings.



 



   C.   A candidate who has filed a statement of acceptance of matching
funds may subsequently reject matching funds up to five business days after
the final filing date for the Declaration of Intention to Become a Candidate
if another candidate in the same race has rejected matching funds. A
candidate who subsequently rejects matching funds is a non-participating
candidate, shall return to the City any matching funds payments received for
that election, and may not receive any further matching funds payments for
that election.



 



 



SEC. 49.7.23.  PARTICIPATION AND QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.



 



   A.   Agreeing to participate in the matching funds program is
binding on the candidate for both the primary election and the general
election.



 



   B.   A participating candidate who qualifies to receive matching
funds in the primary election automatically qualifies to receive matching
funds in the general election.  A participating candidate who does not
qualify to receive matching funds in the primary election, may qualify to
receive matching funds through the candidate’s controlled committee for the
general election.



 



   C.   Qualification means that a participating candidate has met all
of the following requirements: (Amended by Ord. No. 183,236, Eff. 10/30/14.)



 



   1.   The candidate and the candidate's controlled committee received
qualified contributions that meet the following criteria:  (Amended by Ord.
No. 186,253, Eff. 9/24/19.)



 



   a.   The contributions meet or exceed the following aggregate
amounts:



 



   i.   For City Council candidates, an amount equal to 100 times the
maximum per-contributor amount in Section 49.7.27;



 



   ii.   For City Attorney and Controller candidates, an amount equal
to 150 times the maximum per-contributor amount in Section 49.7.27;



 



   iii.   For Mayoral candidates, an amount equal to 300 times the
maximum, per-contributor amount in Section 49.7.27.



 



   Loans, pledges, and non-monetary contributions do not count toward the
thresholds.



 



   b.   The contributions are not from the candidate or the candidate's
immediate family.



 



   2.   The candidate receives qualified contributions of at least five
dollars each from 100 individuals residing within the City or, for a City
Council candidate, within the council district for which election is
sought.  (Amended by Ord. No. 185,923, Eff. 1/28/19.)



 



   3.   The candidate is certified to appear on the ballot for the
election and is not a write-in candidate.



 



   4.   The candidate is opposed by a candidate running for the same
office who has qualified to appear on the ballot for that election and is not
a write-in candidate.



 



   5.   The candidate does not contribute or lend more than the
following aggregate amounts in personal funds per election:



 



   a.   $31,100 for City Council candidates.



 



   b.   $124,500 for Citywide candidates.



 



   These amounts are subject to adjustment under Section 49.7.3.



 



   6.   The candidate has either participated in a debate with one or
more opponents or, if no opponent agrees to debate, conducted a town hall
meeting with the public.  (Amended by Ord. No. 186,253, Eff. 9/24/19.)



 



   7.   The candidate agrees in writing not to exceed the applicable
expenditure ceilings.



 



   8.   The candidate or the candidate’s controlled committee has
filed all previously due campaign statements required by the Political Reform
Act, the Charter, this Code, or the Administrative Code.



 



   9.   The candidate and the candidate's treasurer have attended the
training required under Section 49.7.12.



 



   10.   The candidate does not use matching funds in violation of
federal, state, or City law.



 



   11.   The candidate does not use matching funds to pay fines,
penalties, or inauguration expenses.



 



   D.   A participating candidate who does not abide by the terms of
the Matching Funds Program is disqualified from receiving matching funds for
the remainder of the election cycle and may be required to return all
matching funds received for that election cycle. (Amended by Ord. No.
183,236, Eff. 10/30/14.)



 



 



SEC. 49.7.24.  EXPENDITURE CEILINGS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 185,923, Eff. 1/28/19.)



 



   A.   A participating candidate and the candidate's controlled
committee for election to City office may not make expenditures above the
following amounts in a primary election:



 



   1.   $480,000 for a City Council candidate.



 



   2.   $1,119,000 for a Controller candidate.



 



   3.   $1,259,000 for a City Attorney candidate.



 



   4.   $2,798,000 for a Mayoral candidate.



 



   B.   A participating candidate and the candidate's controlled
committee for election to City office may not make expenditures above the
following amounts in a general election:



 



   1.   $400,000 for a City Council candidate.



 



   2.   $840,000 for a Controller candidate.



 



   3.   $979,000 for a City Attorney candidate.



 



   4.   $2,237,000 for a Mayoral candidate.



 



   C.   The expenditure ceilings are subject to adjustment under
Section 49.7.3.



 



 



SEC. 49.7.25.  EXPENDITURE CEILINGS LIFTED.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 183,236, Eff. 10/30/14.)



 



   The applicable expenditure ceiling is no longer binding on a
participating candidate in either of the following scenarios:



 



   A.   A non-participating candidate in the same race makes or incurs
campaign expenditures in excess of the expenditure ceiling; or



 



   B.   Independent expenditure communications under Section 49.7.31
A.1. in support of or opposition to any candidate in the same race exceed, in
the aggregate, the following amounts:



 



   1.   $77,000 in a City Council election;



 



   2.   $155,000 in a City Attorney or Controller election;



 



   3.   $309,000 in a Mayoral election.



 



   These amounts are subject to adjustment under Section 49.7.3.



 



 



SEC. 49.7.26.  NOTICE REGARDING EXPENDITURE CEILINGS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 183,236, Eff. 10/30/14.)



 



   A candidate shall notify the Ethics Commission in writing within one
calendar day of the date the candidate has received more than 100 percent of
the applicable expenditure ceiling and again on the day the candidate makes
or incurs expenditures totaling more than 100 percent of the applicable
expenditure limit. The Ethics Commission shall notify all other candidates
for the same office within one business day of receiving the
non-participating candidate's notice.



 



 



SEC. 49.7.27.  MATCHING FUNDS FORMULA.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 185,923, Eff. 1/28/19.)



 



   Six dollars in matching funds will be paid for each dollar of a
qualified contribution, up to the following maximum per contributor: 
one-seventh of the per-person City campaign contribution limit applicable
under Section 49.7.3 B.2.a. or 49.7.3 B.2.b. to the elected City office that
the candidate seeks, rounded to the nearest dollar.



 



 



SEC. 49.7.28.  REQUESTS FOR MATCHING FUNDS PAYMENTS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 183,236, Eff. 10/30/14.)



 



   A.   A participating candidate may not request a single matching
funds payment that represents less than $10,000 in matchable portions of
qualified contributions, as determined by the formula in Section 49.7.27 A.,
except in the following circumstances:



 



   1.   Beginning 14 days before an election and ending on the last day
to submit requests for payment, as identified in Administrative Code Section
24.34(c)(3), a participating candidate may request a single matching funds
payment that represents $1,000 or more in matchable portions of qualified
contributions.



 



   2.   A participating candidate may request a matching funds payment
that represents any amount in matchable portions of qualified contributions
if the payment requested would result in the participating candidate
receiving the maximum matching funds for that election.



 



   B.   If a contribution that forms the basis of a request for a
matching funds payment cannot be negotiated or is returned or refunded, the
candidate must either return all matching funds received as a result of that
contribution or submit an alternate qualified contribution.



 



   C.   Requests for matching funds payments shall contain the
information required by the Ethics Commission.



 



   D.   A candidate who makes a request for matching funds payment and
knows or should know that the request is false or that a contribution that
forms the basis of the request is misrepresented is guilty of a misdemeanor
and shall return all matching funds received as a result of the request.  If
the candidate holds or is elected to office, the false request constitutes a
violation of official duties and, if it is deemed appropriate by a court
under Charter Section 207(c), shall be removed from office.



 



 



SEC. 49.7.29.  MAXIMUM MATCHING FUNDS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 185,923, Eff. 1/28/19.)



 



   A.   The following maximum amounts may be paid to a qualified
participating candidate in a primary election:



 



   1.   $135,000 for a City Council candidate.



 



   2.   $360,000 for a Controller candidate.



 



   3.   $405,000 for a City Attorney candidate.



 



   4.   $900,000 for a Mayoral candidate.



 



   B.   The following maximum amounts may be paid to a qualified
participating candidate in a general election:



 



   1.   $169,000 for a City Council candidate.



 



   2.   $405,000 for a Controller candidate.



 



   3.   $472,000 for a City Attorney candidate.



 



   4.   $1,079,000 for a Mayoral candidate.



 



   C.   The maximum amounts are subject to adjustment under Section
49.7.3.



 



 



SEC. 49.7.30.  MATCHING FUNDS PAYMENTS TO CANDIDATES.



 



   A.   The Ethics Commission shall process each request for matching
funds payment within four business days after the later of receiving all
information necessary to process the request or determining that the
participating candidate has met all qualification requirements. (Amended by
Ord. No. 183,236, Eff. 10/30/14.)



 



   B.   The Controller shall make matching funds payments in the amount
certified by the Ethics Commission within two business days after receiving
the certification from the Ethics Commission.



 



   C.   Except for the general election grant, a matching funds payment
may not be made before the Ethics Commission determines the sufficiency of
the Public Matching Funds Trust Fund under Administrative Code Section
24.33.  If the Ethics Commission determines that the balance of the Public
Matching Funds Trust Fund is not or may not be sufficient to pay the maximum
matching funds to all qualified participating candidates, the Commission
shall notify the Controller to withhold amounts sufficient to ensure that
each qualified participating candidate will receive a pro rata share of the
applicable maximum.  The amounts withheld will be paid if the Ethics
Commission subsequently determines that there is sufficient money to pay the
maximum matching funds.



 



 



SEC. 49.7.31.  DISCLOSURE OF INDEPENDENT EXPENDITURE COMMUNICATIONS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 183,236, Eff. 10/30/14.)



 



   A.   A person shall notify the Ethics Commission of an independent
expenditure communication when either of the following occurs:



 



   1.   The person makes or incurs expenditures with an actual or fair
market value of $1,000 or more for one or more communications; or



 



   2.   The person makes or incurs expenditures with an actual or fair
market value of $100 or more for one or more communications and distributes
the communications to the following number of persons:



 



   a.   200 or more persons, if the distributor is a person who
qualifies as a committee under the Political Reform Act.



 



   b.   1,000 or more persons, if the distributor is not a person who
qualifies as a committee under the Political Reform Act.



 



   Once a notification threshold is met, every subsequent $100 in
expenditures made or incurred regarding that measure or candidate shall also
be disclosed as required by Subsections B. and C.



 



   B.   The notification shall be submitted to the Ethics Commission
within the following time frames:



 



   1.   From the first date an individual may file a Declaration of
Intention to Become a Candidate with the City Clerk through the date of the
associated general election, or during the 90 days prior to an election if no
City candidates will be on the ballot, within 24 hours after making or
incurring the expenditures.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,362, Eff. 1/30/13.)



 



   2.   At all other times, within five business days after making or
incurring the expenditures provided, however, in no event later than the
first date an individual may file a Declaration of Intention to Become a
Candidate.



 



   C.   The notification shall include the following:



 



   1.   A declaration under penalty of perjury signed by the person
and, if applicable, the committee treasurer, specifying the following:



 



   a.   Each candidate or measure supported or opposed by the
communication;



 



   b.   The dates and amounts of the expenditure and the amount spent
to support or oppose each candidate or measure;



 



   c.    For disclosure under Subsection A.2., the number of
distributions;



 



   d.   Whether each candidate or measure was supported or opposed;



 



   e.   That the communication was not behested by any of the
candidates who benefited from it;



 



   f.   The dates the communication was distributed or displayed, if
applicable;



 



   g.   A description of the type of communication;



 



   h.   The name and address of the person making, or incurring the
expenditures or causing the communication to be distributed or displayed;



 



   i.     The name and address of the payee, if applicable, and any
vendor or subvendor that provided service for the communication;



 



   j.   For committees, contributions of $100 or more received by the
committee since the later of the day after the close of the filing period for
the last campaign or independent expenditure statement filed by the committee
or the first day of the current calendar year. This disclosure requirement
does not apply to contributions that are earmarked for a non-City candidate
or ballot measure; and



 



   k.   Contributions of $100 of more that the person made in the
current calendar year to City candidates, City controlled committee, City
ballot measure committees, City recall committees, committees primarily
formed to support or oppose City candidates or measures, and City general
purpose recipient committees.



 



   2.   A copy of the communication.



 



   a.   If the communication is a telephone call or similar
communication, a copy of the script and, if the communication is recorded,
the recording shall be provided.



 



   b.   If the communication is audio or video, a copy of the script
and an audio or video file shall be provided.



 



   D.   If an independent expenditure communication supports or opposes
a City candidate, the Ethics Commission staff will notify all candidates in
the affected race within one business day after receiving the required
notice. The notification will indicate the candidates supported or opposed by
the independent expenditure communication, as indicated on the signed
declaration, and will include a copy of the independent expenditure
communication that has been filed with the Ethics Commission.



 



   E.   The Ethics Commission shall post on its website, without
alteration, all copies of independent expenditure communications filed with
the Ethics Commission.  The Ethics Commission may not judge, comment upon,
or edit the contents of an independent expenditure communication.



 



   F.   This section shall not apply to a news story, commentary, or
editorial by a newspaper, radio station, television station, or other
recognized news medium, unless the disclaimer is required for a payment or
promise of a payment under Section 49.7.34.



 



 



SEC. 49.7.32 DISCLOSURE OF CAMPAIGN, OFFICEHOLDER, AND LEGAL DEFENSE
COMMUNICATIONS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 183,236, Eff. 10/30/14.)



 



   A.   A person who makes or distributes a campaign, officeholder, or
legal defense communication to 200 or more persons shall file a copy of the
communication with the Ethics Commission.  (Amended by Ord. No. 183,414,
Eff. 3/13/15.)



 



   B.   The copy shall be filed within the following time frames:



 



   1.   From the first date an individual may file a Declaration of
Intention to Become a Candidate with the City Clerk through the date of the
associated general  election, or during the 90 days prior to an election if
no City candidate will be on the ballot, within 24 hours after making or
incurring the expenditures.  (Amended by Ord. No. 183,414, Eff. 3/13/15.)



 



   2.   At all other times, within five business days after first
distributing the communication.



 



   C.   If the campaign, officeholder, or legal defense communication
is a telephone call or similar audio communication, a copy of the script and,
if the communication is recorded, the recording shall be provided.



 



   D.   If the campaign, officeholder, or legal defense communication
is audio or video, a copy of the script and an audio or video file shall be
provided.



 



   E.   All copies of campaign, officeholder, and legal defense
communications that are filed with the Ethics Commission shall be posted on
the Ethics Commission’s website without alteration.  The Ethics Commission
may not judge, comment upon, or edit the contents of a communication.



 



   F.   This section shall not apply to the following:



 



   1.   A news story, commentary, or editorial by a newspaper, radio
station, television station, or other recognized news medium, unless the
disclaimer is required for a payment or promise of a payment under Section
49.7.34; or



 



   2.   Officeholder communications paid for by and distributed by a
person other than a City agency or official to advertise a City sponsored
community or similar event.



 



 



SEC. 49.7.33.  DISCLAIMERS ON POLITICAL COMMUNICATIONS.



 



   A.   A person shall incorporate the following statements in a
campaign, officeholder, or legal defense communication:  (Amended by Ord.
No. 182,362, Eff. 1/30/13.)



 



   1.   "Paid for by" immediately followed by the name, address, and
city of that candidate or committee.  The address and city are not required
in an audio communication.



 



   a.   If the communication is made by a controlled committee, the
name of the person controlling the committee shall also be included.



 



   b.   If an acronym is used to specify a committee name, the full
name of any sponsoring organization of the committee shall also be included.



 



   2.   "Additional information is available at ethics.lacity.org."  A
substantially similar statement that specifies the web site may be used as an
alternative in audio communications.



 



   B.   A committee making an independent expenditure communication
under Section 49.7.31 A.1. or 49.7.31 A.2. shall incorporate the following
statements: (Amended by Ord. No. 183,236, Eff. 10/30/14.)



 



   1.   "Paid for by" immediately followed by the committee's name,
address, and city. If an acronym is used to specify a committee name, the
full name of the sponsoring committee shall also be included.



 



   2.   "Not authorized by or coordinated with a City candidate or a
committee controlled by a candidate." This statement is not required if the
independent expenditure communication supports or opposes only a City ballot
measure.



 



   3.   "Major funding provided by [names of the two contributors who
gave the most to the committee in the six months prior to the date of the
payment for the independent expenditure communication], in the amount of [the
total amount of contributions made by those contributors in the same
six-month period]."



 



   a.   The amount of the contributions is not required in an audio
communication.



 



   b.   If the committee had only one contributor of at least $1,000 in
the six months prior to the date of the payment for the independent
expenditure communication, the statement may refer only to that contributor.



 



   c.   This statement is not required if the committee did not have
any contributors of at least $1,000 in the six months prior to the date of
the payment for the independent expenditure communication.



 



   4.   "Additional information is available at ethics.lacity.org."



 



   C.   A person making an independent expenditure communication under
Section 49.7.31 A.2.b. shall incorporate the following statements:  (Amended
by Ord. No. 183,414, Eff. 3/13/15.)



 



   1.   "Distributed by" immediately followed by the person's name,
address, and city. The address and city are not required in an audio
communication.



 



   2.   "Not authorized by or coordinated with a City candidate or
committee controlled by a candidate." This statement is not required if the
independent expenditure communication supports or opposes only a City ballot
measure.



 



   3.   "Additional information is available at ethics.lacity.org."



 



   D.   All disclaimers shall be presented in a clear and conspicuous
manner to give the reader, observer, or listener adequate notice.  Minimum
requirements are specified below:



 



      1.   For written communications up to 24 inches by 36 inches,
disclaimers shall be printed using a bold, sans serif typeface that is easily
legible to an average reader and is not less than 14-point type in a color
that contrasts with the background on which it appears.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 185,153, Eff. 10/15/17.)



 



      2.   For written communications larger than 24 inches by 36
inches, the total height of the disclaimer shall constitute at least five
percent of the total height of the communication, be printed using a bold,
sans serif typeface that is easily legible to an average reader, and be
printed in a color that contrasts with the background on which it appears. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 185,153, Eff. 10/15/17.)



 



      3.   For video communications, the disclaimer shall be written
in a bold, sans serif typeface that is easily legible to an average reader,
in a color that contrasts with the background on which it appears, and shall
appear for at least four seconds at either the beginning or the end of the
communication.  A spoken disclaimer is also required if the written
disclaimer does not appear for at least five seconds of a communication that
is 30 seconds or less or for at least ten seconds of a communication that is
longer than 30 seconds.  A spoken disclaimer shall be clearly audible and
spoken at the same speed and volume as the rest of the communication.
(Amended by Ord. No. 185,153, Eff. 10/15/17.)



 



   4.   For audio communications, disclaimers shall be spoken in a
clearly audible manner at either the beginning or end of the communication. 
The disclaimers shall be spoken at the same speed and volume as the rest of
the communication and shall last at least five seconds.



 



   E.   Disclaimers are required for all political communications that
shall be disclosed under Section 49.7.31 or 49.7.32. (Amended by Ord. No.
183,236, Eff. 10/30/14.)



 



   1.   This does not apply to slate mailers, wearing apparel, small
promotional items, such as pens, pencils, mugs, and potholders, and other
items on which a disclaimer cannot be reasonably displayed in an easily
legible typeface.



 



   2.   When the size limitations of an electronic communication render
it impractical to include the full disclaimer, the disclaimer must state, at
a minimum, "Paid for by" immediately followed by the committee identification
number provided by the California Fair Political Practices Commission, or, if
the person is not a committee, the person's name. In addition, when a user
interacts with the communication, the interaction must provide the user with
the full disclaimer in a format that is easily legible and identifiable, such
as through a rollover or pop-up on the landing page or a linked Web site or
application.



 



   F.   A person shall amend political communications within five
business days after any information in the disclaimer changes.  A committee
shall be deemed to have complied with this requirement if, within five
business days, the amended communication is sent to all affected recipients
with a request that the previous communication immediately be replaced.  For
written communications, disclaimers shall be amended to reflect accurate
disclosure information every time the communication is reproduced.



 



 



SEC. 49.7.34.  SOCIAL MEDIA ACCOUNTS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 183,236, Eff. 10/30/14.)



 



   A.   If a candidate for elected City office, a City controlled
committee, a City recall committee, a City ballot measure committee, a City
general purpose committee, a committee primarily formed to support or oppose
City candidates or ballot measures, or a person who makes independent
expenditure communications in City elections and qualifies as a committee
under the Political Reform Act that elects to use social media accounts to
communicate regarding a City election, the candidate or committee shall
include the following statement on each account's home page: "This account is
being used for campaign purposes by [name of candidate or committee]."



 



   1.   The statement shall be prominent, in a typeface that is easily
legible to an average reader and in a color that contrasts with the
background on which it appears.



 



   2.   The statement shall be displayed from the time the candidate or
committee first begins to use the account for campaign purposes until the
election for which it is used is over.



 



   B.   An elected City officer may not use a social media account or
Web site for campaign purposes if the account or site is paid for, sponsored
by, or hosted by the City. If an elected City officer communicates about
campaign activity or City business using a social media account or Web site
that is not City sponsored, the home page for the account or site shall
include the following statement: "This [account or site] is not paid for,
sponsored by, or hosted by the City." The statement shall be prominent, in a
typeface that is easily legible to an average reader and in a color that
contrasts with the background on which it appears.



 



 



SEC. 49.7.35.  BIDDER CONTRIBUTION AND FUNDRAISING RESTRICTIONS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 183,236, Eff. 10/30/14.)



 



   A.   Definitions.  The following definitions apply for purposes of
Charter Section 470(c)(12):



 



   1.   "Approval by an elected City office" means approval of a
contract or selection of a pre-qualified list of persons to contract with the
City in any of the following circumstances:



 



   a.   The elected City officer or the elected City officer's office
is the awarding authority;



 



   b.   The contract involves services provided directly to or under
the supervision of the elected City officer; or



 



   c.   The contract requires approval of the elected City officer or
the elected City officer's office pursuant to City law, executive directive,
or City Council action.



 



   The term does not include approval by an elected City officer that is
required pursuant to Charter Section 262, 271(d), or 370 for non-proprietary
departments, provided that City Council approval is not otherwise required
and the elected City offices identified in those Sections are neither the
awarding authority nor supervising the services under the contract. The term
does include approval by an elected City officer that is required pursuant to
Charter Section 262, 271(d), or 370 for contracts with the Harbor, Water and
Power, and Airport Departments.



 



   2.   "Awarding Authority" means the City Council, a City board,
commission, authorized employee, or authorized officer, including those who
have control of their own special funds but excluding the City Purchasing
Agent when acting pursuant to Section 9.1 of the Los Angeles Administrative
Code, who makes or enters into a contract for the provision of goods or
services of any kind or nature whatsoever to, for, or on behalf of the City.
References to the awarding authority shall include references to staff when
working on a matter subject to this Section.



 



   3.   "Bidder" means a person who bids on or submits a proposal or
other response to a City contract solicitation.



 



   4.   "Contract" means any agreement, franchise, lease,
non-regulatory permit, land use license or easement, or concession, including
any agreement for occasional professional or technical personal services, for
the performance of any work or service or construction, the provision of any
materials, goods, equipment, or supplies, the sale or purchase of property,
the making of grants, or the rendering of any service to the City, including
any proprietary department, or to the public where all of the following apply:



 



   a.   The contract is let, awarded, or entered into, with, or on
behalf of the City or an awarding authority;



 



   b.   The contract has an anticipated value of at least $100,000,
including exercising all anticipated options; and



 



   c.   The contract requires approval by an elected City office.



 



   The term includes any subsequent amendment that, by itself or in
combination with the original contract and any other amendments, has an
anticipated value of at least $100,000 and requires approval by an elected
City office. The term also includes the selection of a pre-qualified list of
persons to contract with the City where the request for qualifications
includes a not-to-exceed amount of at least $100,000 and the list selection
requires approval by an elected City office. The term does not include any
contract with another government agency or a contract with an underwriting
firm pursuant to Charter Section 609(e) for proprietary noncompetitive sales
of revenue bonds.



 



   5.   "Contract solicitation" means a request for proposals, request
for bids, request for qualifications, or any other request, whether written
or verbal, for purposes of entering into a contract. The term does not
include a request to enter into a contract that is based on a prior City
contract that previously went through a competitive contracting process if
the prior contract was subject to the restrictions and the contractor
fulfilled its obligations under this section and Charter Section 470(c)(12).



 



   6.   “Principal” means the following with regard to persons who
are bidders and sub-contractors:



 



   a.   The person’s board chair, president, chief executive officer,
chief operating officer, and an individual who serves in the functional
equivalent of one or more of those positions;



 



   b.   An individual who holds an ownership interest in the person of
20 percent or more; and



 



   c.   An individual employee of the bidder or sub-contractor
authorized by the bid or proposal to represent the person before the City.



 



   7.   “Prohibited fundraising” means the following activities:



 



   a.   Asking the bidder, sub-contractor, or an employee, officer, or
principal of the bidder or sub-contractor to make a contribution;



 



   b.   Inviting the bidder, sub-contractor, or an employee, officer or
principal of the bidder or sub-contractor to a fundraising event;



 



   c.   Supplying the name of the bidder, sub-contractor, or an
employee, officer or principal of the bidder or sub-contractor to be used for
an invitation to a fundraising event;



 



   d.   Permitting one’s name to appear on a solicitation for
contributions or an invitation to a fundraising event sent to the bidder,
sub-contractor, or an employee, officer, or principal of the bidder or
sub-contractor;



 



   e.   Providing the use of one’s home or business to hold a
fundraising event if the bidder, sub-contractor or an employee, officer, or
principal of the bidder or sub-contractor attends the event;



 



   f.   Paying for at least 20 percent of the costs of a fundraising
event if the bidder, sub-contractor, or an employee, officer, or principal of
the bidder or sub-contractor attends the event;



 



   g.   Hiring another person to conduct a fundraising event if the
bidder, a sub-contractor, or an employee, officer, or principal of the bidder
or sub-contractor attends the event;



 



   h.   Delivering a contribution, either in person or by mail, of the
bidder, a sub-contractor, or an employee, officer, or principal of the bidder
or sub-contractor to the elected City officer, candidate for elected City
office, or an agent of the officer or candidate; or



 



   i.   Acting as an agent or intermediary in connection with the
making of a contribution of the bidder, a sub-contractor, or an employee,
officer, or principal of the bidder or sub-contractor to an elected City
officer, a candidate for elected City office, or a City controlled committee.



 



   8.   “Sub-contractor” means a person who is expected to receive
at least $100,000 as a result of performing some or all of a bidder’s
contract obligations and includes a subtenant where the subtenant is expected
to receive at least $100,000 as a result of performing a portion of the
contract obligations of the contractor and is required to pay the contractor
at least $100,000.



 



   B.   For purposes of Charter Section 470(c)(12), the following apply:



 



   1.   Timing of Fundraising and Contribution Restrictions.  In
addition to the restrictions provided in Charter Section 470 (c)(12), except
as otherwise provided in Subsection B.5., bidders, sub-contractors, and
principals may not make contributions to or engage in prohibited fundraising
for elected City officers, candidates for elected City office, or City
controlled committees from the date a bid is submitted until one of the
following dates:



 



   a.   For unsuccessful bidders, the date the contract is signed or
the solicitation is withdrawn or canceled.



 



   b.   For successful bidders, 12 months after the contract is signed.



 



   2.   Contract Solicitations and Notifications. Each awarding
authority shall include in each contract solicitation the form identified in
Subsection B.3. and a description of the prohibitions and requirements of
Charter Section 470(c)(12).  (Amended by Ord. No. 186,109, Eff. 6/13/19.)



 



   a.   The awarding authority shall determine whether the form is
complete for responsiveness purposes.



 



   b.   The awarding authority may permit bidders to submit the form
electronically and to use electronic signatures that comply with California's
electronic signature laws, but an awarding authority may not alter the
content of the form.



 



   c.   The awarding authority shall electronically submit the form to
the Ethics Commission, in a Portable Document Format (PDF) or other
electronic format pre-approved by the Ethics Commission, within ten business
days of the bid due date.  The awarding authority must also comply with the
reporting requirements in Section 49.5.11 B.



 



   d.   The awarding authority shall either notify bidders who are not
awarded a contract of the date that the contract was signed or the contract
solicitation was terminated or withdrawn or notify the bidders how they may
obtain or request the date that the contract was signed or the contract
solicitation was terminated or withdrawn, unless that information is
available on a City website.



 



   3.   Disclosure Form. As provided in Subsection B.2., every bidder
shall file a form with the awarding authority, at the time the bid or other
response is submitted, that contains the following information and is
submitted under oath:



 



   a.   A description of the contract, including any City reference
number associated with it, or if selection is of a pre-qualified list, a
short description of the services to be provided, including any City
reference number associated with it;



 



   b.   The name of the awarding authority;



 



   c.   The date the bid or other response was submitted to the
awarding authority;



 



   d.   The name of the bidder;



 



   e.   The address of the bidder;



 



   f.   The phone number of the bidder;



 



   g.   The names and titles of the bidder’s principals;



 



   h.   The names of the bidder’s sub-contractors;



 



   i.   The names and titles of each sub-contractor’s principals; and



 



   j.   A certification that the bidder understands, will comply with,
and will notify its principals and sub-contractors of the prohibitions and
restrictions in this Section and Charter Section 470(c)(12).



 



   4.   Requirement to Amend Form.  If the information submitted
pursuant to Subsection B.3. or B.5. changes after the form is submitted, the
bidder shall amend the form and submit it to the awarding authority within
ten business days of the change.  (Amended by Ord. No. 186,109, Eff.
6/13/19.)



 



   a.   The requirement to amend the form applies whenever the
prohibitions and restrictions in Charter Section 470(c)(12) apply to the
bidder, including after the contract approval for successful bidders.



 



   b.   The awarding authority shall electronically submit the form to
the Ethics Commission, in a Portable Document Format (PDF) or other
electronic format pre-approved by the Ethics Commission, within ten business
days of receipt.



 



   5.   Contract Amendments. If a contract amendment requires approval
by an elected City officer and, by itself or in combination with the original
contract and any other amendments, makes the total anticipated value of the
contract $100,000 or more for the first time, the restrictions in Charter
Section 470 (c)(12) apply from the date the awarding authority first
discusses the amendment and terminates 12 months after the date the amendment
is approved, disapproved, or withdrawn. However, the restrictions in Charter
Section 470 (c)(12) do not apply to any subsequent amendments if the contract
was previously subject to the restrictions and the contractor fulfilled its
obligations under this section and Charter Section 470 (c)(12).  (Amended by
Ord. No. 186,109, Eff. 6/13/19.)



 



   a.   The awarding authority shall notify contractors of the
requirements in this Section and Charter Section 470(c)(12) at the time the
awarding authority first discusses the amendment with the contractor.



 



   b.   A contractor shall submit the form identified in Subsection
B.3. to the awarding authority within ten business days of the date the
awarding authority first discusses the amendment with the contractor.  The
awarding authority shall determine whether the form is complete.



 



   c.   The awarding authority shall electronically submit the form to
the Ethics Commission, in a Portable Document Format (PDF) or other
electronic format pre-approved by the Ethics Commission, within ten business
days of receiving the form from the contractor.  The awarding authority must
also comply with the reporting requirements in Section 49.5.11 B.



 



   d.   This provision does not apply to the exercise of an option that
has been previously approved in a written contract.



 



   6.   Business Assistance Virtual Network. In the event that the
City's Business Assistance Virtual Network or similar electronic system is
used by a bidder to submit the forms required by this section to the awarding
authority and the Business Assistance Virtual Network or similar electronic
system sends the submitted data and the forms to the Ethics Commission, the
awarding authority shall not be required to submit the form to the Ethics
Commission.



 



   C.   Violations and Debarment.



 



   1.   In addition to any other penalties or remedies established by
this Article, a person who is found to have violated or aided and abetted a
violation of this Section or Charter Section 470(c)(12) shall not be eligible
to bid on or be considered for a contract, extension, or amendment unless the
Ethics Commission, as a body, determines that mitigating circumstances exist
concerning such violation. Debarment also applies to an entity that has the
same or similar management, ownership, or principal employees as the debarred
person and is organized after the proceeding that results in the person's
debarment has been initiated.



 



   2.   The Ethics Commission, as a body, shall determine whether
mitigating circumstances apply whenever a violation of this Section or
Charter Section 470(c)(12) is determined to have occurred.  If the Ethics
Commission determines that mitigating circumstances do not exist, the person
found to be in violation shall be debarred for the following periods of time
after the Ethics Commission’s determination:



 



   a.   One year for the first violation;



 



   b.   Two years for the second violation;



 



   c.   Three years for the third violation; and



 



   d.   Four years for the fourth and subsequent violations.



 



   3.   The Ethics Commission may adopt regulations regarding
mitigating circumstances, including what constitutes mitigating circumstances
and any other information determined to be necessary.



 



   4.   The Ethics Commission staff shall notify all agencies,
departments, board and offices of a determination of debarment within ten
business days of the determination.  The Ethics Commission’s determination
regarding debarment is final as to all offices, departments, boards, and
agencies and may not be waived.



 



   5.   If an awarding authority has an existing contract with a person
who is identified in a debarment notice from the Ethics Commission staff, the
awarding authority shall determine in writing and, if the awarding authority
is a City board, commission, or City Council, at a public meeting whether it
is the best interests of the City to terminate the contract.



 



   6.   An awarding authority shall not determine whether a violation
of this Article or any other City law regarding campaign financing, lobbying,
or governmental ethics has occurred.



 



   7.   A person who fails to submit a complete disclosure form as
required by this Section shall be deemed nonresponsive.  However, an
awarding authority may award the contract to a bidder who did not submit a
complete disclosure form under the following circumstances:



 



   a.   The contract is a sole source contract for work (as defined in
U.S. copyright law) that is protected under an exclusive copyright interest
or a subject matter (as defined in U.S. patent law) that is protected by a
U.S. patent or a foreign patent that is enforceable in the United States; and



 



   b.   Before awarding the contract, the awarding authority does the
following:



 



   i.   Makes a written finding that entering into the contract is in
the best interests of the City; and



 



   ii.   Notifies the contractor that the contractor, sub-contractor,
and principals that, notwithstanding the failure to complete the disclosure
form, they are not relieved of their obligations to comply with the
requirements of the Charter and this Section or the penalties that may result
from failing to comply with those requirements.



 



 



SEC. 49.7.36.  UNDERWRITER CONTRIBUTION AND FUNDRAISING RESTRICTIONS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 183,236, Eff. 10/30/14.)



 



   A.   Definitions.  For purposes of Charter Section 609(e), the
definition of awarding authority in Section 49.7.35 A. applies.  The
following definitions also apply:



 



   1.   “Prohibited Fundraising” means the following activities:



 



   a.   Asking the underwriting firm, sub-contractor, or an employee,
officer, or principal of the underwriting firm or sub-contractor to make a
contribution;



 



   b.   Inviting the underwriting firm, sub-contractor, or an employee,
officer, or principal of the underwriting firm or sub-contractor to a
fundraising event;



 



   c.   Supplying the name of the underwriting firm, sub-contractor, or
an employee, officer, or principal of the underwriting firm or sub-contractor
to be used for an invitation to a fundraising event;



 



   d.   Permitting one’s name to appear on a solicitation for
contributions or an invitation to a fundraising event sent to the
underwriting firm, sub-contractor, or an employee or officer of one of those
persons;



 



   e.   Providing the use of one’s home or business to hold a
fundraising event if the underwriting firm, sub-contractor, or an employee,
officer, or principal of the underwriting firm or sub-contractor attends the
event;



 



   f.   Paying for at least 20 percent of the costs of a fundraising
event if the underwriting firm, sub-contractor, or an employee, officer, or
principal of the underwriting firm or sub-contractor attends the event;



 



   g.   Hiring another person to conduct a fundraising event if the
underwriting firm, sub-contractor, or an employee, officer, or principal of
the underwriting firm or sub-contractor attends the event;



 



   h.   Delivering a contribution, either in person or by mail, of the
underwriting firm, sub-contractor, or to an employee, officer, or principal
of the underwriting firm or sub-contractor to an elected City officer, a
candidate for elected City office, or an agent of the officer or candidate; or



 



   i.   Acting as an agent or intermediary in connection with the
making of a contribution by the underwriting firm, sub-contractor, or to an
or employee, officer, or principal of the underwriting firm or sub-contractor
to an elected City officer, a candidate for elected City office, or a City
controlled committee.



 



   2.   “Sub-contractor” means a person who is expected to receive
at least $100,000 as a result of performing some or all of the underwriting
firm’s contract obligations but does not include an underwriting firm
member of the syndicate in the applicable revenue bond sale.



 



   3.   “Underwriting firm” means any firm that seeks to provide
underwriting services for noncompetitive sales of revenue bonds for the
Airport, Harbor, or Water and Power Departments as provided in Charter
Section 609 in response to a solicitation from an awarding authority.



 



   B.   For purposes of Charter Section 609(e), the following apply:



 



   1.   Timing of Fundraising and Contribution Restrictions.  In
addition to the restrictions provided in Charter Section 609(e), underwriting
firms, sub-contractors, and principals may not make any contributions to or
engage in prohibited fundraising for elected City officers, candidates for
elected City office, or City controlled committees from the date a response
is submitted to a solicitation to be included on a pre-qualified list of
underwriters or any subsequent solicitation for selection of an underwriter
until one of the following dates:



 



   a.   For underwriting firms that are not selected to be on the
pre-qualified list, the date the list selection is made.



 



   b.   For underwriting firms that are on the pre-qualified list, but
not selected to contract after a subsequent solicitation, and are not members
of the syndicate providing underwriting services on the sale of the revenue
bonds, 12 months following the date of the list selection, and following the
solicitation, on the date of the selection of the underwriting firm for a
noncompetitive bond sale, or the date the solicitation is withdrawn or
canceled.



 



   c.   For underwriting firms that are on the pre-qualified list, and
are selected to contract after a subsequent solicitation, or are members of
the syndicate providing underwriting services on the sale of the revenue
bonds, 12 months following the date of the list selection, and 12 months
after the underwriter selection is made.



 



   2.   Contract Solicitations and Notifications. Each awarding
authority shall include in each contract solicitation for underwriting firm
services regarding a noncompetitive sale for revenue bonds, including
selection of a pre-qualified list of underwriters, the form identified in
Subsection B.3. and a description of the prohibitions and requirements in the
City Charter Section 609(e) and this Section.  (Amended by Ord. No. 186,109,
Eff. 6/13/19.)



 



   a.   The awarding authority shall determine whether the form is
complete for responsiveness purposes.



 



   b.   The awarding authority may permit bidders to submit the form
electronically and to use electronic signatures that comply with California's
electronic signature laws, but an awarding authority may not alter the
content of the form.



 



   c.   The awarding authority shall electronically submit the form to
the Ethics Commission, in a Portable Document Format (PDF) or other
electronic format pre-approved by the Ethics Commission, within ten business
days of the bid due date.  The awarding authority must also comply with the
reporting requirements in Section 49.5.11 B.



 



   d.   The awarding authority shall notify each underwriting firm that
is not selected as pre-qualified underwriter or not selected as the
underwriter on a particular noncompetitive sale of revenue bonds, the date
the selection was made, terminated, or withdrawn, unless that information is
available on a City website.



 



   3.   Disclosure Form. Every underwriting firm seeking to provide
services regarding noncompetitive sales of revenue bonds under Charter
Section 609(e) shall file a form with the awarding authority, at the time the
response is submitted, the following information is submitted under oath:



 



   a.   A description of the contract, including any City reference
number associated with it, or if selection is of a pre-qualified list, a
short description of the services to be provided, including any City
reference number associated with it;



 



   b.   The name of the awarding authority;



 



   c.   The date the bid or other response was submitted to the
awarding authority;



 



   d.   The name of the underwriting firm;



 



   e.   The address of the underwriting firm;



 



   f.   The phone number of the underwriting firm;



 



   g.   The names and titles of the underwriting firm’s principals;



 



   h.   The names of the underwriting firm’s sub-contractors;



 



   i.   The names and titles of each sub-contractor's principals; 
(Amended by Ord. No. 182,362, Eff. 1/30/13.)



 



   j.   A certification that the underwriting firm understands, will
comply with, and will notify its principals and sub-contractors of the
prohibitions and restrictions in this Section and Charter Section 609(e);
and  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,362, Eff. 1/30/13.)



 



   k.   A certification that the underwriting firm and its principals
have not made prohibited gifts or contributions during the 12 months prior to
selection for a contract, unless the matter is only a selection of a
pre-qualified list of underwriters.



 



   4.   Requirement to Amend Form.  If the information submitted
pursuant to Subsection B.3. changes after the form is submitted, the
underwriting firm shall amend the form and submit it to the awarding
authority within ten business days of the change.  (Amended by Ord. No.
186,109, Eff. 6/13/19.)



 



   a.    The requirement to amend the form applies whenever the
prohibitions and restrictions in Charter Section 609(e) apply to the
underwriting firm, including after the contract approval for underwriting
firms that are selected or are performing underwriting service as a member of
a syndicate on the revenue bond sale.



 



   b.   The awarding authority shall electronically submit the form to
the City Ethics Commission, in a Portable Document Format (PDF) or other
electronic format pre-approved by the Ethics Commission, within ten business
days of receipt.  (Amended by Ord. No. 183,414, Eff. 3/13/15.)



 



   5.   Business Assistance Virtual Network. In the event that the
City's Business Assistance Virtual Network or similar electronic system is
used by a bidder to submit the forms required by this Section to the awarding
authority and the Business Assistance Virtual Network or similar electronic
system sends the submitted data and the forms to the Ethics Commission, the
awarding authority shall not be required to submit the form(s) to the City
Ethics Commission.



 



   6.   Violations and Debarment.  The provisions of Section 49.7.35
C. shall also apply to violations of this Section and Charter Section 609(e).



 



 



SEC. 49.7.37.  DEVELOPER CONTRIBUTION RESTRICTIONS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 186,477, Eff. 1/23/20.)



 



   A.   Definitions.  For purposes of this Section, the following
definitions apply:



 



   1.   "Applicant" means a person who is identified as the applicant
on an application filed with the Planning Department for a Significant
Planning Entitlement as defined in Subsection A.6. below and includes any
subsequent person identified as the applicant.



 



   2.   "Owner" means a person identified as a property owner in
conjunction with the application for a significant planning entitlement.



 



   3.   "Planning Department" means the Los Angeles Department of City
Planning.



 



   4.   "Principal" means the following:



 



   a.   A restricted developer's board chair, president, chief
executive officer, chief financial officer, chief operating officer of a
person, and any individual who serves in the functional equivalent of one or
more of these positions;



 



   b.   A person who holds an ownership interest of 20 percent or more
in a restricted developer; and



 



   c.   An individual authorized to represent a restricted developer
before the Planning Department concerning the significant planning
entitlement.



 



   5.   "Restricted developer" means any applicant or owner.



 



   6.   "Significant planning entitlement" means the following planning
approvals that are not solely ministerial:



 



   a.   Density Bonus, On Menu;



 



   b.   Density Bonus, Off Menu;



 



   c.   Development Agreement;



 



   d.   General Plan Amendment;



 



   e.   Height District Change;



 



   f.   Major Development Projects;



 



   g.   Oil Drilling District Establishment;



 



   h.   Sign District Establishment;



 



   i.   Site Plan Review;



 



   j.   Specific Plan Establishment;



 



   k.   Tentative Tract Map;



 



   l.   Transfer of Floor Area Rights;



 



   m.   Transit Oriented Communities Affordable Housing Incentive;



 



   n.   Vesting Tentative Tract;



 



   o.   Vesting Zone Change;



 



   p.   Zone Change; and



 



   q.   Zone Variance where Area Planning Commission or Citywide
Planning Commission is the initial decision maker.



 



   B.   Restriction.  A restricted developer or principal shall not
make a contribution to the Mayor, City Attorney, member of City Council, or a
candidate or a City controlled committee for these elected City offices.



 



   C.   Timing of Contribution Restrictions.  The restrictions in
Subsection B. apply from the time an application is submitted until 12 months
after the date a letter of determination is issued, or if none, the date the
decision on the application is final.  If the application is withdrawn or
terminated pursuant to the Zoning Code, the restriction applies until the day
after the termination or the filing of the withdrawal.



 



   D.   Disclosure.



 



   1.   The Planning Department shall notify every applicant of the
requirements of this Section.



 



   2.   At the time an application for a significant planning
entitlement is submitted, the applicant shall file the following information:



 



   a.   A brief description of the project, including any City
reference number associated with it and the address or APN of the project
site;



 



   b.   The date the application was submitted;



 



   c.   The applicant's name, address, phone number, and email address;



 



   d.   The name, address, phone number, and email address of each
owner;



 



   e.   The names and titles of all of the principals; and



 



   f.   A certification under penalty of perjury that the information
submitted is true and complete and that the applicant understands, will
comply with, and will notify all owners and principals of the prohibitions in
Subsections B. and C.



 



   3.   The information shall be filed through an electronic database
created by the Ethics Commission in the method required by the Ethics
Commission.



 



   4.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code, an
application is not complete until the applicant has filed the information
required by this Section, unless State law provides otherwise.  A receipt
from the Ethics Commission confirming the applicant's certified filing is
sufficient for evidence of completeness of an application for purposes of the
Permit Streamlining Act, but it shall not be considered a determination that
the applicant has complied with the requirements of this Section.



 



   5.   If the information filed pursuant to Subsection D. changes
after the information required under this section is submitted, the applicant
shall update its filing within ten business days after the change.  The
requirement to amend applies as long as the restriction in Subsection B.
applies.



 



   E.   Violations.  In addition to any other penalties or remedies
established by this Article, an applicant, owner, or principal found to have
violated or have aided or abetted a violation of Subsections B. or C., may
not be an applicant, owner, or principal on a new application for 12 months
after the determination of violation by the Ethics Commission, unless the
Ethics Commission, as a body, determines that mitigating circumstances exist
concerning the violation.  The Ethics Commission may adopt regulations
regarding mitigating circumstances, including what constitutes mitigating
circumstances and any other information determined to be necessary.  The
Ethics Commission staff shall notify the Planning Department of a
determination of violation within ten business days after the determination
by the Ethics Commission.



 



 



SEC. 49.7.38.  RECORDKEEPING.



   (Renumbered by Ord. No. 186,477, Eff. 1/23/20.)



 



   Persons subject to this Article shall keep records that demonstrate
compliance with this Article and the related Charter and Administrative Code
provisions for four years.



 



 



SEC. 49.7.39.  ENFORCEMENT.



   (Renumbered by Ord. No. 186,477, Eff. 1/23/20.)



 



   A.   Criminal Enforcement.



 



   1.   A person who knowingly or willfully violates a provision of
this Article is guilty of a misdemeanor.  Any person who knowingly or
willfully causes another person to violate a provision of this Article, or
who aids and abets another person in the violation of a provision of this
Article, is liable under the provisions of this Section.



 



   2.   Prosecution of a violation of this Article shall be commenced
within four years after the date of the violation.



 



   3.   A person convicted of a misdemeanor under this Article may not
act as a City lobbyist or as a City contractor for four years following the
date of the conviction, unless the court specifically determines at the time
of sentencing that this provision should not be applied.  For purposes of
this Subsection, a plea of nolo contendere is a conviction.



 



   B.   Civil Actions.



 



   1.   A person who intentionally or negligently violates a provision
of this Article is liable in a civil action brought by the City Attorney, the
Ethics Commission, or a person residing within the City.  The amount of
liability may not exceed the greater of $5,000 per violation or three times
the amount the person failed to properly report or unlawfully contributed,
expended, gave, or received.



 



   2.   If two or more persons are responsible for a violation, they
are jointly and severally liable.



 



   3.   Before filing a civil action pursuant to this Subsection, a
person other than the City Attorney shall first file with the Ethics
Commission a written request for the Ethics Commission to commence an
action.  The request shall contain a statement of the grounds for believing
a cause of action exists.  The Ethics Commission shall respond within 40
days after receiving the request and indicate whether it intends to file a
civil action.  If the Commission indicates in the affirmative and files an
action within 40 days after the response, no other action may be brought
unless the action brought by the Ethics Commission is dismissed without
prejudice.



 



   4.   In determining the amount of liability, the court may take into
account the seriousness of the violation and the degree of culpability of the
defendant.  If a judgment is entered against the defendant or defendants in
an action, a private plaintiff shall receive 50 percent of the amount
recovered.  The remaining 50 percent shall be deposited into the City’s
General Fund.  In an action brought by the City Attorney or the Ethics
Commission, the entire amount shall be paid to the City’s General Fund.



 



   5.   An action alleging a violation of this Article may not be filed
more than four years after the date the violation occurred.



 



   C.   Injunctive Relief.  A person residing within the City,
including the City Attorney, may sue for injunctive relief to enjoin
violations or to compel compliance with the provisions of this Article.



 



   D.   Costs of Litigation.  In a civil action, the court may award
to a prevailing party, other than an agency, the party’s costs of
litigation, including reasonable attorneys’ fees.  If the costs or fees
are awarded against the City, the payment of the award is the responsibility
of the City, subject to City Council approval.



 



   E.   Administrative Penalties.  The Ethics Commission may impose
penalties and issue orders for violations of this Article pursuant to its
authority under Charter Section 706(c).



 



   F.   Liability.



 



   1.   In addition to a committee itself, persons who qualify under
the Political Reform Act as principal officers of the committee are jointly
and severally liable for violations by the committee. For City committees
controlled by a candidate for elected City office, the candidate and the
committee treasurer are deemed to be principal officers. (Amended by Ord. No.
183,236, Eff. 10/30/14.)



 



   2.   In addition to a person whose conduct is required or prohibited
under this Article, an agent acting on behalf of that person is jointly and
severally liable for a violation that arises out of the agent’s actions. 
There is a rebuttable presumption that the following persons are agents of a
committee:



 



   a.   A current or former officer of the committee;



 



   b.   An employee of the committee;



 



   c.   A person who has received compensation or reimbursement from
the committee; and



 



   d.   A person who holds or has held a position within the committee
organization that reasonably appears to be able to authorize expenditures for
committee activities.



 



   3.  This Subsection does not limit potential liability for persons who
cause another person to violate this Article or who aids and abets another
person in a violation as described in Charter Section 706.



 



 



SEC. 49.7.40.  LATE FILING PENALTIES.



   (Renumbered by Ord. No. 186,477, Eff. 1/23/20.)



 



   In addition to any other penalties, a person who files an original
statement or report after a deadline imposed by this Article is liable to the
Ethics Commission in the amount of $25 per day after the deadline until the
statement or report is filed, up to a maximum of $500. Liability need not be
enforced by the Ethics Commission if its Executive Officer determines that
the late filing was not willful and that enforcement of the liability will
not further the purposes of the Article. Liability may not be waived if a
statement or report is not filed within 30 days after receiving notice from
the Ethics Commission staff that the statement or report is past due.



 



 



SEC. 49.7.41.  SEVERABILITY.



   (Renumbered by Ord. No. 186,477, Eff. 1/23/20.)



 



   The provisions of this Article are severable.  If any provision of
this Article or its application to any person or circumstance is held invalid
by a court, the remainder of this Article and the application of the
provision to other persons or circumstances is not affected by that
determination, to the extent that the provision or its application can be
given effect.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 11
MUNICIPAL MASS MAILINGS



 




(Added by Ord. No. 149,298, Eff. 3/16/77.)




 



 



Section



49.60   Statement of Policy.



49.61   Definition.



49.62   Content.



49.63   Prohibitions.



49.64   Declaration of Candidacy.



 



 



SEC. 49.60.  STATEMENT OF POLICY.



 



   It is the policy of the City of Los Angeles that the privilege of
printing and sending newsletters or mass mailings at City expense by City
officials shall be limited according to the provisions of this article and of
other applicable law in order to assist and expedite the conduct of the
official business, activities, and duties of the elected officials and
employees of the City of Los Angeles.



 



 



SEC. 49.61.  DEFINITION.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 184,533, Eff. 11/20/16.)



 



   For purposes of this Article, the terms newsletter and mass mailing
shall mean more than 200 substantially similar tangible items, but do not
include form letters or other mail sent in response to a letter or inquiry or
official mailings required by law.



 



 



SEC. 49.62.  CONTENT.



 



   Newsletters and mass mailings printed or transmitted by or on behalf of
any elected or other official of the City of Los Angeles at City expense
shall relate only to the official business of the City of Los Angeles.



 



 



SEC. 49.63.  PROHIBITIONS.



 



   A.   No card, letter, or other mail matter expressing holiday
greetings from any City official unless incidental to the official business
which is the subject thereof, or soliciting a vote, or a contribution or
other political support for any person or any political party, whether
separate or as part of a newsletter or mass mailing, shall be printed or
mailed at City expense at any time.  (Labeled A. by Ord No. 165,618, Eff.
4/21/90.)



 



   B.   No mass mailing may be produced or sent at City expense by or
on behalf of any officer or employee of the City between the time that
officer or employee files a declaration of intent to become a candidate for
any elective office and the date of the election at which such person appears
on the ballot.  (Added by Ord. No. 165,618, Eff. 4/21/90.)



 



 



SEC. 49.64.  DECLARATION OF CANDIDACY.



 



   No newsletter or mass mailing shall be printed or sent at City expense
by or on behalf of any non-elected candidate for elective office after such
person has filed a declaration of candidacy for such office, and before the
final declaration of the results of the election.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 12
DISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF SEXUAL ORIENTATION



 




(Added by Ord. No. 152,458, Eff. 7/8/79.)




 



 



Section



49.70   Statement of Policy.



49.71   Definitions.



49.72   Employment.



49.73   Housing and Other Real Estate Transactions.



49.74   Business Establishments.



49.75   City Facilities and Services.



49.75[.1]   Educational Institutions.



49.76   Liability.



49.77   Enforcement.



49.78   Limitation on Action.



49.79   Severability.



49.80   Exceptions.



 



 



SEC. 49.70.  STATEMENT OF POLICY.



 



   Discrimination based on sexual orientation exists in the City of Los
Angeles. Such discrimination foments strife, unrest and discord and deprives
the City of the fullest utilization of its resources and capacity for
development and advancement. Such discrimination poses a substantial threat
to the health, safety and welfare of the community and existing state and
federal restraints on arbitrary discrimination are inadequate to meet the
particular problems of this City.



 



 



SEC. 49.71.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   1.   Business Establishment.  As used in this ordinance, the term
“business establishment” shall mean any entity, however organized, which
furnishes goods or services to the general public. An otherwise qualifying
establishment which has membership requirements is considered to furnish
services to the general public if its membership requirements: (a) consist
only of payment of fees; (b) consist of requirements under which a
substantial portion of the residents of this City could qualify.



 



   2.   Individual.  As used in this ordinance, the term
“individual” shall mean the same as the term “person”. Wherever this
ordinance refers to the sexual orientation of any individual, and the
individual is a group, the phrase shall mean the sexual orientation of any
member of the group.



 



   3.   Person.  As used in this ordinance, the term “person”
shall mean any natural person, firm, corporation, partnership or other
organization, association or group of persons however organized.



 



   4.   Sexual Orientation.  As used in this ordinance, the term
“sexual orientation” shall mean an individual having or manifesting an
emotional or physical attachment to another consenting adult person or
persons, or having or manifesting a preference for such attachment, or having
or projecting a self-image not associated with one’s biological maleness or
one’s biological femaleness.



 



 



SEC. 49.72.  EMPLOYMENT.



 



   a.   Unlawful Employment Practices.



 



   1.   Employers – Discrimination.  It shall be an unlawful
employment practice for an employer to fail or refuse to hire, or to
discharge any individual, or otherwise to discriminate against any individual
with respect to compensation, terms, conditions or privileges of employment
on the basis (in whole or in part) of such individual’s sexual orientation.



 



   2.   Employers – Segregation.  It shall be an unlawful employment
practice for an employer to limit, segregate or classify employees or
applicants for employment in any manner which would deprive or tend to
deprive any individual of employment opportunities, or adversely affect his
or her employment status on the basis (in whole or in part) of such
individual’s sexual orientation.



 



   3.   Employment Agencies. It shall be an unlawful employment
practice for an employment agency to fail or refuse to refer for employment
any individual, or otherwise to discriminate against any individual on the
basis (in whole or in part) of such individual’s sexual orientation.



 



   4.   Labor Organizations. It shall be an unlawful employment
practice for a labor organization to fail or refuse to include in its
membership or to otherwise discriminate against any individual; or to limit,
segregate or classify its membership; or to classify or fail or refuse to
refer for employment any individual in any way which would deprive or tend to
deprive such individual of employment opportunities, or otherwise adversely
affect her or his status as an employee or as an applicant for employment on
the basis (in whole or in part) of such individual’s sexual orientation.



 



   5.   Job Training. It shall be an unlawful employment practice for
an employer, an employment agency or a labor organization to discriminate
against any individual in admission to, or employment in, any program
established to provide apprenticeship or other training or retraining,
including any on-the-job training program on the basis (in whole or in part)
of such individual’s sexual orientation.



 



   6.   Advertising. It shall be an unlawful employment practice for an
employer, employment agency or a labor organization to print, publish,
advertise or disseminate in anyway, any notice or advertisement with respect
to employment, membership in, or any classification or referral for
employment or training by any such organization, which indicates an unlawful
discriminatory practice.



 



   b.   Subterfuge.  It shall be unlawful to do any of the acts
mentioned in this section for any reason that would not have been asserted
wholly or partially, but for the sexual orientation of any individual.



 



   c.   Bona Fide Occupational Qualification Not Prohibited; Burden of
Proof.



 



   1.   Bona Fide Occupational Qualification. Nothing contained in this
section shall be deemed to prohibit selection or rejection based upon a bona
fide occupational qualification.



 



   2.   Burden of Proof. In any action brought under Sec. 49.77 of this
article, if a party asserts that an otherwise unlawful discriminatory
practice is justified as a bona fide occupational qualification, that party
shall have the burden of proving: (1) that the discrimination is in fact a
necessary result of a bona fide occupational qualification; and (2) that
there exists no less discriminatory means of satisfying the occupational
qualification.



 



   d.   Exceptions.  It shall not be unlawful discriminatory practice
for an employer to observe the conditions of a bona fide employee benefit
system, provided, such systems or plans are not a subterfuge to evade the
purposes of this Article; provided further that no such system shall provide
an excuse for failure to hire any individual.



 



 



SEC. 49.73.  HOUSING AND OTHER REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS.



 



   a.   Unlawful Real Estate Practices.



 



   1.   Transactions Generally. It shall be an unlawful real estate
practice for any person to interrupt, terminate, or fail or refuse to
initiate or conduct any transaction in real property, including but not
limited to the rental thereof; to require different terms for such
transaction; to include in the terms or conditions of a transaction in real
property any clause, condition or restriction; or falsely to represent that
an interest in real property is not available for transaction; on the basis
(in whole or in part) of any individual’s sexual orientation.



 



   2.   Credit and Insurance. It shall be an unlawful real estate
practice for any person to refuse to lend money, guarantee the loan, accept a
deed of trust or mortgage, or otherwise refuse to make available funds for
the purchase, acquisition, construction, alteration, rehabilitation, repair
or maintenance of real property; or impose different conditions on such
financing; or refuse to provide title or other insurance relating to the
ownership or use of any interest in real property; on the basis (in whole or
in part) of any individual’s sexual orientation.



 



   3.   Tenants’ Services. It shall be an unlawful real estate
practice for any person to refuse or restrict facilities, services, repairs
or improvements for any tenant or lessee; on the basis (in whole or in part)
of any individual’s sexual orientation.



 



   4.   Advertising. It shall be an unlawful real estate practice for
any person to make, print, publish, advertise or disseminate in anyway, any
notice, statement or advertisement with respect to a transaction or proposed
transaction in real property, or with respect to financing related to any
such transaction, which unlawfully indicates or attempts to indicate any
unlawful preference, limitation or discrimination.



 



   b.   Subterfuge.  It shall be unlawful to do any of the actions
mentioned in this section for any reason that would not have been asserted,
wholly or partially, but for the sexual orientation of any individual.



 



   c.   Exceptions.



 



   1.   Owner Occupied and Small Dwellings. Nothing in this article
shall be construed to apply to the rental or leasing of any housing unit in
which the owner or lessor or any member of his or her family occupies one of
the living units and either (1) it is necessary for the owner or lessor to
use either a bathroom or kitchen facility in common with the prospective
tenant; or (2) the structure contains less than three dwelling units.



 



   2.   Effect on Other Laws. Nothing in this article shall be deemed
to permit any rental or occupancy of any dwelling unit or commercial space
otherwise prohibited by law.



 



 



SEC. 49.74.  BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS.



 



   a.   Unlawful Business Practice.



 



   1.   Business Practices Generally. It shall be an unlawful business
practice for any person to deny any individual the full and equal enjoyment
of the goods, services, facilities, privileges, advantages and accommodations
of any business establishment on the basis (in whole and in part) of such
individual’s sexual orientation.



 



   2.   Credit. It shall be an unlawful business practice for any
person to deny credit to any individual on the basis (in whole or in part) of
such individual’s sexual orientation.



 



   3.   Advertising. It shall be an unlawful business practice for any
person to make, print, publish, advertise or disseminate in any way any
notice, statement or advertisement with respect to any business establishment
which indicates that such establishment engages or will engage in any
unlawful business practice.



 



   b.   Subterfuge.  It shall be unlawful to do any of the acts
mentioned in this section for any reason that would not have been asserted,
wholly or partially, but for the sexual orientation of any individual.



 



 



SEC. 49.75.  CITY FACILITIES AND SERVICES.



 



   a.   Unlawful Service Practices.



 



   1.   City Facilities. It shall be an unlawful service practice for
any person to deny any individual the full and equal enjoyment of, or to
place different terms and conditions on the availability of the use of any
City facility on the basis (in whole or in part) of such individual’s
sexual orientation.



 



   2.   City Services. It shall be an unlawful service practice for any
person to deny any individual the full and equal enjoyment of, or to impose
different terms or conditions on the availability of, any city service on the
basis (in whole or in part)  of such individual’s sexual orientation.



 



   3.   Supported Facilities and Services. It shall be an unlawful
service practice for any person to deny any individual the full and equal
enjoyment of, or to impose different terms and conditions upon the
availability of, any service, program or facility wholly or partially funded
or otherwise supported by the City of Los Angeles, on the basis (in whole or
in part) of such individual’s sexual orientation. This subsection shall not
apply to any facility, service or program which does not receive any
assistance from the City of Los Angeles which is not provided to the public
generally.



 



   4.   Advertising. It shall be an unlawful service practice for any
person to make, print, publish, advertise or disseminate in any way any
notice, statement or advertisement with respect to any service or facility
provided by either the City of Los Angeles or an organization described in
subsection 3 which indicates that the City of Los Angeles or an organization
described in Subsection 3 engages in or will engage in unlawful service
practices.



 



   b.   Subterfuge.  It shall be an unlawful discriminatory practice
to do any of the acts mentioned in this section for any reason which would
not have been asserted, wholly or partially, but for the sexual orientation
of any individual.



 



 



SEC. 49.75[.1].  EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS.*



 



   a.   Unlawful Educational Practices.



 



   1.   Admission. It shall be an unlawful educational practice for any
person to deny admission, or to impose different terms or conditions on
admission, on the basis (in whole or in part) of such individual’s sexual
orientation.



 



   2.   Services. It shall be an unlawful educational practice for any
person to deny any individual the full and equal enjoyment of, or to impose
different terms or conditions upon the availability of, any service or
program offered by an educational institution on the basis (in whole or in
part) of such individual’s sexual orientation.



 



   3.   Facilities. It shall be an unlawful educational practice for
any person to deny any individual the full and equal enjoyment of, or to
impose different terms or conditions upon the availability of, any facility
owned or operated by an educational institution.



 



   4.   Advertising. It shall be an unlawful educational practice for
any person to make, print, publish, advertise or disseminate in any way any
notice, statement or advertisement with respect to an educational institution
which indicates that such institution engages in, or will engage in, unlawful
educational practices.



 



   b.   Subterfuge.  It shall be an unlawful discriminatory practice
to do any of the acts mentioned in this section for any reason which would
not have been asserted, wholly or partially, but for the sexual orientation
of any individual.



 



   c.   Exception.  It shall not be an unlawful discriminatory
practice for a religious or denominational institution to limit admission, or
give other preference to applicants of the same religion.



 



*  Editor’s note:  the previous edition of this code included two
sections numbered 49.75.  For convenience and to allow the two sections to
be distinguished, in this edition of the code this second § 49.75 is
designated “49.75[.1].”



 



 



SEC. 49.76.  LIABILITY.



 



   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this article or who
aids in the violation of any provisions of this Article shall be liable for,
and the court shall award to the individual whose rights are violated, actual
damages, costs, attorneys’ fees, and not less than Two Hundred Dollars
($200) but not more than Four Hundred Dollars ($400) in addition thereto. In
addition, the court may award punitive damages in a proper case.



 



 



SEC. 49.77.  ENFORCEMENT.



 



   a.   Civil Action. Any aggrieved person may enforce the provisions
of this article by means of a civil action.



 



   b.   Injunction.



 



   1.   Any person who commits, or proposes to commit, an act in
violation of this article may be enjoined therefrom by any court of competent
jurisdiction.



 



   2.   Action for injunction under this subsection may be brought by
any aggrieved person, by the City Attorney, or by any person or entity which
will fairly and adequately represent the interests of the protected class.



 



 



SEC. 49.78.  LIMITATION ON ACTION.



 



   Actions under this article must be filed within one year of the alleged
discriminatory acts.



 



 



SEC. 49.79.  SEVERABILITY.



 



   If any part or provision of this article, or the application thereof to
any person or circumstance, is held invalid, the remainder of the article,
including the application of such part or provision to other persons or
circumstances, shall not be affected thereby and shall continue in full force
and effect. To this end, provisions of this article are severable.



 



 



SEC. 49.80.  EXCEPTIONS.



 



   a.   No part of this article shall apply to any bona fide religious
organization.



 



   b.   Notwithstanding any provision of this code to the contrary, no
criminal penalties shall attach for any violation of the provisions of this
article.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 13
PROHIBITION ON THE MANUFACTURE, SALE, ANDDISTRIBUTION OF POLYSTYRENE PLASTICS
PRODUCTS



 




(Added by Ord. No. 163,918, Eff. 9/5/88.)




 



 



Section



49.81   Definitions.



49.82   Prohibitions as to Certain Polystyrene Products.



49.83   Penalty.



 



 



SEC. 49.81.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   In this article the following definitions shall apply:



 



   “Polystyrene Plastic” means a thermoplastic petrochemical material
utilizing a styrene monomoner and a blowing agent compound which is used to
produce molded expanded or extruded expanded polystyrene plastic foam.



 



   “Polystyrene Food Packaging” means a thermoplastic petrochemical
material utilizing styrene monomoner and blowing agents used for packaging
and containing food and drink materials, including, but not limited to, cups,
bowls, plates, hinge carryout and sandwich containers, egg cartons, and stock
food crates.



 



 



SEC. 49.82.  PROHIBITIONS AS TO CERTAIN POLYSTYRENE PRODUCTS.



 



   On and after July 1, 1989, it is unlawful to manufacture, sell or
distribute to any person in this City any product made of, or with,
polystyrene plastic unless the product is made using a blowing agent compound
and meets all the following criteria:



 



   (a)   The blowing agent compound will reduce the potential for ozone
depletion by more than 95 percent compared to the ozone depletion potential
of CFC-12 (dychlorodifluorothane).



 



   (b)   The blowing agent compound will not contribute to the
formation of ozone in the lower atmosphere. The compound does not contribute
to that formation of ozone if both of the following conditions are met:



 



   1.   The compound is not prohibited by any federal, state, regional
or local regulation.



 



   2.   The manufacture of the blowing agent compound and polystyrene
plastic utilized the best available technology, as certified by an
appropriate governmental agency which has the jurisdiction to make such
determinations, to control the emissions. For the purpose of this
subdivision, the phrase “best available technology” shall mean as follows:



 



   (i)   As to an existing facility the best available retrofit control
technology as defined in Section 40406 of the Health and Safety Code; and



 



   (ii)   As to a new facility or the expansion of an existing facility
the best available control technology as defined in Section 40405 of the
Health and Safety Code.



 



   (c)   The use of the compound has been approved by the Federal Food
and Drug Administration for use in food containers.



 



   (d)   The use of the compound does not present an significant risk
to workers or public health due to its toxicity, corrosivity, flammability or
other hazardous properties.



 



 



SEC. 49.83.  PENALTY.



 



   In addition to any other applicable civil or criminal penalty, any
person convicted of a violation of this article is guilty of an infraction,
which is punishable by a fine not to exceed $50.00 for the first violation,
$100 for the second violation within one year, and $250 for each additional
violation within one year. Each incident in violation of Section 49.82 shall
constitute a separate violation.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 14
GRAFFITI REMOVAL AND RECOVERY



 




(Title and Article Amended by Ord. No. 180,708, Eff. 7/6/09.)




 



 



Section



49.84.1   Purpose and Intent.



49.84.2   Definitions.



49.84.3   Graffiti Prohibited.



49.84.4   Display of Aerosol Paint Containers and Marker Pens.



49.84.5   Possession of Specified Graffiti Implements Prohibited in
Designated Areas.



49.84.6   Graffiti Declared a Public Nuisance.



49.84.7   Graffiti Removal at City Expense.



49.84.8   Remedies When Owner Refuses to Consent.



49.84.9   City Funds to Be Recovered.



49.84.10   Administrative Hearing.



49.84.11   Nuisance Abatement Lien.



49.84.12   Penalties.



49.84.13   Severability.



 



 



SEC. 49.84.1.  PURPOSE AND INTENT.



 



   (A)   The City Council of the City of Los Angeles finds graffiti on
public or private property a blighting element that leads to depreciation of
the value of property and depreciates the value of the adjacent and
surrounding properties to the extent that graffiti creates a negative impact
on the entire city.



 



   (B)   The City Council finds and determines that the power of
graffiti to create fear and insecurity within the community detracts from the
sense of community enjoyed by residents making graffiti both a property crime
and a social crime impacting the quality of life and freedom from
intimidation that citizens desire within their neighborhoods.



 



   (C)   The City Council finds and determines that the spread of
graffiti often leads to violence, genuine threats to life, and the
perpetuation of gangs, gang violence, and gang territories.



 



   (D)   The City Council finds and determines that graffiti is
obnoxious and a public nuisance, and must be eliminated by means of
prevention, education, and abatement to avoid the detrimental impact of such
graffiti on the City and its residents, and to prevent the further spread of
graffiti.



 



   (E)   The purpose and intent of the City Council, through the
adoption of this Article, is to protect public and private property from acts
of vandalism and defacement.



 



 



SEC. 49.84.2.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   (A)   "Act of graffiti" means an act which causes any form of
unauthorized inscription, word, figure or design to be marked, etched,
scratched, drawn, sprayed, painted or otherwise affixed on any structural
component of any building, structure or other facility or upon any other
property, regardless of its content or nature and regardless of the nature of
the material of that structural component or property.



 



   (B)   "Aerosol paint container" means any aerosol container, which
is adapted or made for the purpose of applying spray painting, or other
substance capable of defacing property.



 



   (C)   "City" means the city of Los Angeles.



 



   (D)   "Etching cream" means any caustic cream, gel, liquid, or
solution capable, by means of a chemical action, of defacing, damaging, or
destroying hard surfaces in a manner similar to acid.



 



   (E)   "Graffiti" means any form of unauthorized inscription, word,
figure or design which is marked, etched, scratched, drawn, sprayed, painted
or otherwise affixed to or on any surface of public or private property,
including but not limited to, buildings, walls, signs, structures or places,
or other surfaces, regardless of the nature of the material of that
structural component.



 



   (F)   "Graffiti implement" means any implement capable of marking a
surface to create graffiti, including but not limited to aerosol paint
containers, markers, etching devices, and gum labels.



 



   (G)   "Gum label" means any material such as, but not limited to,
decals, stickers, posters or labels which contain a substance commonly known
as adhesive or glue, which cannot be removed from the surface in an intact
condition and with minimal effort.



 



   (H)   "Marker" means any indelible or permanent marker with tips
exceeding four millimeters in width or similar implement containing ink that
is not water-soluble.



 



   (I)   "Owner" means any person, firm, corporation, partnership or
other entity, owning property either public or private, whose name or title
appears on the last equalized assessment role with the Los Angeles County
Recorder's Office, or the lessee, tenant or other person having control or
possession of the property.



 



 



SEC. 49.84.3.  GRAFFITI PROHIBITED.



 



   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to write, paint, spray, chalk,
etch, or otherwise apply graffiti on public or privately owned buildings,
signs, walls, permanent or temporary structures, places, or other surfaces
located on public or privately owned property within the City.



 



   (1)   A violation of this subsection shall be subject to enforcement
only through civil action, administrative fine, or nuisance abatement lien.



 



   (B)   It is unlawful for any person owning or otherwise in control
of any real property within the City to permit or allow any graffiti to be
placed upon or remain on any walls, temporary or permanent structure, places,
or other surfaces located on such property when the graffiti is visible from
a public street or other public or private property.



 



 



SEC. 49.84.4.  DISPLAY OF AEROSOL PAINT CONTAINERS AND MARKER PENS.



 



   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns, conducts,
operates or manages a retail commercial establishment selling aerosol
containers, or marker pens with tips exceeding four millimeters in width,
containing anything other than a solution which can be removed with water
after it dries, to store or display, or cause to be stored or displayed, such
aerosol containers or marker pens in an area accessible to the public without
employee assistance in the regular course of business pending legal sale or
other disposition.



 



   (B)   Nothing herein shall preclude the storage or display of spray
paint containers and marker pens in an area viewable by the public so long as
such items are not accessible to the public without employee assistance.



 



   (C)   Sign Posting Requirement.  (Added by Ord. No. 182,285, Eff.
11/26/12.)  Every retail establishment that is subject to the provisions of
Subsection (A) shall post and display in a conspicuous location where such
aerosol paint or marker pens are displayed for retail sale, the following
sign:



 




GRAFFITI VANDALISM IS PUNISHABLE BY UP TO 3 YEARS IN COUNTY JAIL AND/OR A
$50,000 FINE.  THE CITY OF LOS ANGELES MAY PAY A REWARD OF $1,000 FOR
INFORMATION RESULTING IN THE IDENTIFICATION, APPREHENSION, AND CONVICTION OF
PERSONS RESPONSIBLE FOR GRAFFITI.




 



   The sign must be clearly visible and legible to customers.  The
letters and numbers on said sign shall be in black lettering at least one
inch in height on a white background.



 



 



SEC. 49.84.5.  POSSESSION OF SPECIFIED GRAFFITI IMPLEMENTS PROHIBITED IN
DESIGNATED AREAS.



 



   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to have in his or her possession
any aerosol paint container or etching cream while in or upon any public
facility, park, playground, swimming pool, recreational facility, or other
public building owned or operated by the City unless otherwise authorized by
the City, where signs forbidding such possession are displayed as provided in
Subsection (B).



 



   (B)   Posting of No Possession of Graffiti Implements Signs.  At
least two signs shall be conspicuously painted or posted on the outside of
every public facility, park, playground, swimming pool, recreational
facility, or other public building owned or operated by the City that is
subject to this regulation.  The letters and numbers on said signs shall be
in black lettering at least six inches high on a white background stating:



 




NO POSSESSION OF AEROSAL SPRAY PAINT OR ETCHING CREAM
LAMC SEC. 49.84.5




 



 



SEC. 49.84.6.  GRAFFITI DECLARED A PUBLIC NUISANCE.



 



   Declaration of Nuisance. The City Council hereby declares and finds
graffiti, which is visible from a street or other public or private property
to be a nuisance subject to abatement according to the provisions and
procedures contained herein.



 



 



SEC. 49.84.7.  GRAFFITI REMOVAL AT CITY EXPENSE.



 



   (A)   Authorization to Use City Funds.  Whenever the Board of
Public Works or its designated representative determines that graffiti is so
located on public or private property within the City so as to be capable of
being viewed by persons utilizing any public right-of-way in the City, the
Board of Public Works or its designated representative is authorized to
provide for the removal of the graffiti solely at the City's expense, without
reimbursement from the property owner upon whose property the graffiti has
been applied.



 



   (B)   Limitations to Use of City Funds.  The use of City funds as
authorized in this section is limited to the following cases.



 



   (1)   The Board of Public Works or its designated representative
must approve each proposed use of City funds for the removal of graffiti.



 



   (2)   In removing the graffiti, the painting or repair shall be
limited to the minimum necessary to properly restore the defaced area.



 



   (3)   Where a structure is owned by a public entity other than the
City, the removal of the graffiti may be authorized only after securing the
consent of the public entity having jurisdiction over the structure as set
forth in subsection (C), below.



 



   (4)   Where a structure is privately owned, the removal of the
graffiti by City personnel or by a private contractor under the direction of
the City may be authorized only after securing the consent of the owner as
set forth in subsection (C), below.



 



   (5)   The City reserves the right to recover City costs and expenses
pursuant to this chapter, Penal Code Section 594, et seq., Code of Civil
Procedure Section 731, Civil Code Section 1714.1, Government Code Section
38771, et seq., Welfare and Institutions Code Section 742.10, et seq., and
any other remedies provided by law.



 



   (C)   Securing Consent.  The City shall obtain the written consent
of the owner of the affected public or private structures prior to removal of
graffiti.  Owners may consent in advance to City entry onto private property
for graffiti removal purposes.  The City will make forms for such consent
available.  The consent form shall be approved by the City and shall:



 



   (1)   Authorize entry of City employees or contractors on the
affected property to accomplish the removal of the material;



 



   (2)   Assign to the City any cause or causes of action which the
owner may have against any person or persons who deface said property with
graffiti; and



 



   (3)   Hold the City, its officers, employees and contractors
harmless from all liability arising out of the entry on the property or the
work of removing the material.



 



   (D)   In any instance where the owner of the affected property or
structure caused, materially contributed, or voluntarily consented to the
placement of the graffiti, the owner may be held financially responsible
pursuant to Section 49.84.8 of this Article.



 



 



SEC. 49.84.8.  REMEDIES WHEN OWNER REFUSES TO CONSENT.



 



   (A)   Vacant Property.  If the City requested consent from an owner
to remove or abate graffiti and that owner refused or failed to consent, the
City may commence abatement and cost recovery proceedings for the removal of
the graffiti pursuant to the provisions of Section 91.8904et seq. of this
Code, and any other remedies provided by law.



 



   (B)   Occupied Buildings and Premises.  If the City requested
consent from an owner to remove or abate graffiti and that owner refused or
failed to consent, the City may pursue other remedies provided by this
Article, Section 91.8903et seq. of this Code, and any other remedies provided
by law.



 



 



SEC. 49.84.9.  CITY FUNDS TO BE RECOVERED.



 



   (A)   Recovery of Costs.  The City shall recover all costs incurred
to remove graffiti and repair or replace graffiti damaged real or personal
property within the City.  These costs may be recovered as follows:



 



   (1)   Criminal Prosecution.  A person who suffers a conviction for
committing an act of graffiti who is granted probation, or any minor who is
found to be a person described in California Welfare and Institutions Code
Section 602 as a result of committing an act of graffiti shall make
restitution to the victim, in addition to any other penalties prescribed by
law.



 



   (2)   Civil Action.



 



   (a)   Adult Defendants.  The City Attorney may bring and maintain a
civil action in the name of the City of Los Angeles in the Superior Court to
obtain a money judgment against the defendant for any amount not ordered or
collected by the criminal court, including, but not limited to, all
attorney's fees, court costs, and civil penalties incurred in connection with
the civil prosecution of any claim for damages or reimbursement.



 



   (b)   Juvenile Offender.  The City Attorney may bring and maintain
a civil action in the name of the City of Los Angeles in the Superior Court
to obtain a money judgment against the juvenile offender and/or his or her
parent(s) or guardian(s) having custody and control of the minor for any
amount not ordered or collected by the juvenile court, including, but not
limited to, all attorney's fees, court costs, and civil penalties incurred in
connection with the civil prosecution of any claim for damages or
reimbursement.



 



   (c)   Parental Liability.  Any parent or legal guardian of a minor
shall be personally liable for any and all costs to the City or any person or
business incurred in connection with the removal of graffiti caused by
conduct of said minor, and for all attorney's fees, court costs, and civil
penalties incurred in connection with the civil prosecution of any claim for
damages or reimbursement up to twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000).



 



   (3)   Administrative Hearing.  An administrative order may be
sought for violations relating to graffiti offenses against the responsible
person(s) and/or, if the responsible person is a minor, against the parent(s)
or guardian(s) having custody and control of the minor.



 



   (4)   Lien and Personal Obligation.  The expense of abating the
graffiti nuisance shall constitute a lien against, and be a personal
obligation of, the minor or other person creating, causing, or committing the
nuisance.  The parent(s) or guardian(s) having custody and control of the
minor shall be jointly and severally liable with the minor for the expense of
abatement.



 



   (B)   Selecting the Remedy.  Selecting the appropriate remedy to be
sought lies within the sole discretion of the Los Angeles City Attorney's
office and shall be consistent with the purpose and intent of this Article. 
This includes, but is not limited to, alternative sentencing options, such as
parenting classes, counseling, and other forms of remedial education.



 



   (C)   Disposition of Funds Collected.  All funds collected pursuant
to this section shall be deposited into the Graffiti Technology and Recovery
Fund established pursuant to the Los Angeles Administrative Code Sections
5.552, 5.553 and 5.554.  These monies shall be utilized for the purposes
authorized for expenditure from that Fund.



 



   (D)   Remedies Not Exclusive.  Remedies provided for the
enforcement of this Article are in addition to and do not supersede or limit
any and all other remedies provided by law.  The remedies provided herein
are cumulative and not exclusive.



 



 



SEC. 49.84.10.  ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING.



 



   (A)   Administrative Fines.



 



   (1)   Whenever an enforcement officer determines that a violation of
a provision of this Article has occurred, the enforcement officer is
authorized to issue a notice of violation to the responsible person(s).  If
the responsible person is a minor, the enforcement officer is authorized to
issue a notice of violation to the parent(s) or guardian(s) having custody
and control of the minor.



 



   (2)   Each violation of any provision of this Article and each
separate offense designated by this Article shall be subject to an
administrative fine, as provided for in this Section.



 



   (3)   The amount of the administrative fine shall be determined by
the enforcement officer, based upon the penalty schedule set forth in
Subdivision (4) of this Section, subject to the following limitations:



 



   (a)   Where the violation would otherwise be an infraction, the
administrative fine or penalty shall not exceed the maximum fine or penalty
amounts for infractions set forth in subdivision (b) of Section 36900 of the
California Government Code.



 



   (b)   For all other violations of this Article, the amount of the
administrative fine shall not exceed one-thousand dollars ($1,000).



 



   (4)   The administrative fine levied for a violation of this Article
shall be in the following amounts:



 



   (a)   For the first offense by a fine of two hundred fifty dollars
($250); or



 



   (b)   For a second offense by a fine of five hundred dollars ($500);
or



 



   (c)   For a third or any subsequent offense by a fine of one
thousand dollars ($1,000).



 



   (B)   Service Procedures for Issuing Administrative Citations.  An
administrative citation in a form approved by the City may be issued to the
responsible party by an enforcement officer for violations of those sections
set forth in this Article in the following manner:



 



   (1)   Personal Service.  In any case where an administrative
citation is issued to an individual the enforcement officer shall attempt to:



 



   (a)   Locate the individual and serve the administrative citation to
the responsible person or party.  If the responsible person is a minor, the
enforcement officer shall also attempt to serve the administrative citation
on the parent(s) or guardian(s) having custody and control of the minor.



 



   (b)   Obtain on the administrative citation the signature of the
person in violation of this Code.



 



   (c)   If the responsible person or party served refuses or fails to
sign the administrative citation, the failure or refusal to sign shall not
affect the validity of the citation or of subsequent proceedings.



 



   (2)   Service of Citation by Mail.  If the enforcement officer is
unable to locate the responsible person for the violation, the administrative
citation shall be mailed to the responsible person by certified mail, postage
prepaid, return receipt requested.  If the responsible person is a minor,
the administrative citation shall be mailed to the parent(s) or guardian(s)
having custody and control of the minor by certified mail, postage prepaid,
return receipt requested.  Simultaneously, the same notice may be sent by
regular mail.  If a notice sent by certified mail is returned unsigned, then
service shall be deemed effective pursuant to regular mail, provided the
notice that was sent by regular mail is not returned.



 



   (C)   Contents of Administrative Citations.  Administrative
citations shall contain all of the following information:



 



   (1)   The date and location of the violation and the approximate
time the violation was observed;



 



   (2)   The Code Section violated and a description of how the Section
was violated;



 



   (3)   The action required to correct the violation;



 



   (4)   The consequences of failing to correct the violation;



 



   (5)   The amount of penalty imposed for the violation;



 



   (6)   Information regarding the procedure to contest the citation;



 



   (7)   The signature of the enforcement officer and the signature of
the responsible person if that person can be located and will sign the
citation, as set forth in this section.



 



   (D)   Satisfaction of Administrative Citation.



 



   (1)   Upon receipt of a citation, the responsible party shall either:



 



   (a)   Pay the Penalty.  Payment of the penalty waives the
responsible party's right to the administrative hearing and appeal process
pursuant to Paragraph (d), below; or



 



   (b)   Perform Community Service or Parenting Classes.  Any
responsible person(s) served with an administrative citation pursuant to this
Section may request to perform community service or attend parenting classes
in lieu of payment of the administrative penalty pursuant to subdivision (F)
of this Section; or



 



   (c)   Remedy the Violation.  If the violation is of a nature that
it can be remedied, and the responsible party remedies it within the time
indicated on the citation, upon providing proof of correction to the
enforcement officer the responsible party shall pay only the administrative
reimbursement portion of the penalty; or



 



   (d)   Request an Administrative Hearing.  If the responsible party
chooses to contest the citation, the party shall submit a request to do so no
later than 15 calendar days, excluding weekends and holidays, after service
of the citation.  The request shall be submitted in writing as directed on
the citation and shall include a statement of reasons why the citation is
being contested.  The request shall be accompanied by a deposit in the full
amount of the penalty, inclusive of the administrative reimbursement portion,
or written proof of financial hardship, which at a minimum must include tax
returns, financial statements, bank account records, salary records or
similar documentation demonstrating that the responsible party is unable to
deposit the penalty.  A hearing will not be scheduled unless the full amount
of the penalty is deposited, or the City finds the responsible party
financially unable to do so and waives the deposit requirement.



 



   (2)   In the event the responsible party fails or refuses to select
and satisfy any of the alternatives set forth in Paragraphs (a), (b) (c) or
(d) above, then the penalty shall be immediately due and owing to the City
and may be collected in any manner allowed by law for collection of a debt.



 



   (E)   Administrative Hearings and Appeal Process.



 



   (1)   Appointment of Administrative Hearing Officer.  Within 180
days of the effective date of this Section, the City Attorney's Office, with
the City Council's approval, shall create an administrative hearing and
appeals process that is consistent with this Article and with due process
principles, including the selection and appointment of one or more
independent Administrative Hearing Officers, who shall be responsible for
conducting administrative hearings authorized under this Article.  Until
such time, no enforcement officer may issue an administrative citation under
this Section.



 



   (2)   Pre-hearing Dismissal of Citation.  The City may dismiss an
administrative citation at any time if it is determined to have been issued
in error.



 



   (3)   Time for Administrative Hearing.  The administrative hearing
shall be scheduled no later than 90 days after receipt of the request for a
hearing to contest the citation.  The responsible party will be notified in
writing at least ten days prior to the date of the hearing by first class
mail of the date and time of the hearing.



 



   (4)   Request for Continuance of Hearing.  The responsible person
may request one continuance of the hearing, but in no event may the hearing
begin later than 90 days after receipt of the request for hearing from the
responsible person.



 



   (5)   Failure to Attend Administrative Hearing.  The individual to
whom an administrative citation is issued, or that person's representative,
may attend the hearing in person, or in lieu of attending may submit an
Appearance by Written Declaration on a form provided by the City for that
purpose.



 



   (a)   If the cited individual or his or her representative fails to
attend the scheduled hearing, or fails to submit an Appearance by Written
Declaration on the form provided by the City for that purpose, he or she
shall be deemed to have waived his or her right to an administrative
hearing.  Under these circumstances, the Administrative Hearing Officer
shall dismiss the challenge to the administrative citation, and shall issue a
written notice to that effect.  An individual whose challenge to an
administrative citation is dismissed under this section shall be deemed not
to have availed himself or herself of the right to an administrative hearing
as provided in this Article.



 



   (b)   An individual who has been issued an administrative citation
and who has requested an administrative hearing to challenge the citation as
provided in this Article may request in writing that his or her challenge to
the citation be dismissed and the hearing canceled.  Upon receipt of a
request to dismiss a challenge to the administrative citation, the City shall
cancel the pending hearing, and issue a written notice to that effect.  Any
individual who requests the dismissal of a challenge to an administrative
citation under this Section shall be deemed never to have availed himself or
herself of the right to an administrative hearing as provided in this Article.



 



   (6)   Procedures at Administrative Hearing.  Administrative
hearings are informal, and formal rules of evidence and discovery do not
apply.  Each party shall have the opportunity to present evidence in support
of his or her case and to cross-examine witnesses.  The City bears the
burden of proof at an administrative hearing to establish a violation.  The
citation is prima facie evidence of the violation and the enforcement officer
who issued the citation is not required to participate in the hearing.  The
Administrative Hearing Officer shall use preponderance of the evidence as the
standard of evidence in deciding the issues.  Written and oral evidence
submitted at the hearing shall be submitted under penalty of perjury. 
Documentary and other tangible evidence must be authenticated to the
satisfaction of the Administrative Hearing Officer.



 



   (7)   Decision of Administrative Hearing Officer.  At the
conclusion of the hearing or within 15 days thereafter, the Administrative
Hearing Officer shall render a decision as follows:



 



   (a)   Determine that the violation for which the citation was issued
occurred, and impose a fine in the amount set forth in the citation,
inclusive of the administrative reimbursement portion, and if the violation
has not been corrected as of the date of the hearing, order correction of the
violation; or



 



   (b)   Determine that the violation for which the citation was issued
occurred, but that the responsible party has introduced credible evidence of
mitigating circumstances warranting imposition of a lesser penalty than that
prescribed in the citation, or no penalty at all, and impose a lesser fine,
if any, and if the violation has not been corrected as of the date of the
hearing, order that the violation be corrected; or



 



   (c)   Determine that the violation for which the citation was issued
did not occur or that the condition did not constitute a violation of the
Code.



 



   (8)   Issuance of Administrative Order.  The Administrative Hearing
Officer shall issue a written decision entitled "Administrative Order" no
later than 15 days after the date on which the administrative hearing
concludes.  The Administrative Order shall be served upon the responsible
person by first class mail, or if that method fails, by any one of the other
methods set forth in this Section.  The Administrative Order shall become
final on the date of mailing or other service, and shall notify the
responsible person of his or her right to appeal as provided below in this
Section.  The Administrative Order shall also (i) either set a deadline for
compliance with its terms, in the event that the responsible person fails to
file an appeal, in no event less than 20 days from the date of mailing or
other service, or (ii) if the hearing officer determines as described in
Subdivisions (7)(b) or (7)(c) immediately above, and the responsible party
has deposited the penalty with the City, order a partial or full refund of
the deposit.



 



   (9)   Appeal of Administrative Order.  Within 20 days after mailing
or other service of the Administrative Order to the responsible person, he or
she may seek review of the Administrative Order by filing a notice of appeal
with the Superior Court, pursuant to California Government Code Section
53069.4.  The responsible person shall serve upon the City Clerk either in
person or by first-class mail a copy of the notice of appeal.  If the
responsible person fails to timely file a notice of appeal, the
Administrative Order shall be deemed final.



 



   (F)   Request to Perform Community Service or Parenting Classes. 
Any responsible person(s) served with an administrative citation and/or
issued an Administrative Order pursuant to this Section may request to
perform community service or attend parenting classes in lieu of payment of
the administrative penalty.  Community service and parenting classes must be
in a program approved by the issuing department.



 



   (1)   Written Request.  Any eligible responsible person(s) served
with an administrative citation who requests permission to perform community
service or attend parenting classes in lieu of payment of the administrative
penalty, as provided in Subsection (F), must make the request in writing and
file it with the issuing department no later than fifteen (15) calendar days,
excluding weekends and holidays, after service of the citation.  Any
eligible responsible person(s) issued an Administrative Order who requests
permission to perform community service or attend parenting classes in lieu
of payment of the administrative penalty, as provided in Subsection (F), must
make the request in writing and file it with the issuing department no later
than twenty (20) days after mailing or other service of the administrative
Order.  All requests made pursuant to Subsection (F) must include the
address of the responsible person(s) for the purpose of correspondence by the
issuing department.



 



   (2)   Notification.  The issuing department shall notify the
responsible person(s) by first class mail, postage prepaid, whether the
request to perform community service or attend parenting classes has been
approved, and if approved, shall identify the program(s) that the responsible
person must complete, and the date by which such program shall be
completed.  The decision to grant or deny the request shall be in the sole
discretion of the issuing department.  In the event the issuing department
denies the request to perform community service or attend parenting classes,
the administrative penalty otherwise payable as set forth in the
administrative citation and/or Administrative Order previously served on the
responsible person(s) shall be made by the date specified in the notice
denying the request to perform community service or attend parenting classes.



 



   (3)   Suspension of Administrative Penalty.  The obligation to pay
the administrative penalty otherwise required shall be suspended during the
time period provided for completion of the approved program as set forth in
the written notification approving the request sent by the issuing department
under Paragraph (2), above.



 



   (4)   Proof of Completion.  The responsible person(s) shall provide
proof of completion of the approved program by submitting, to the issuing
department within five (5) calendar days following the date by which the
program was to be completed, a certificate of completion issued by the
program provider.  Failure to present such proof within the required time
period shall result in the reinstatement of the administrative penalty
otherwise due as stated in the administrative citation or Administrative
Order without further notification by the issuing department.  Payment of
the amount due shall be made within seven (7) calendar days of the date by
which the program was to be completed as specified in the notice provided
under Paragraph (2), above.



 



   (G)   Failure to Comply with Administrative Order.  In addition to
any other remedy provided by law, if the responsible person fails to comply
with the Administrative Order, the City may use any other legal remedy
available to gain compliance with the Administrative Order.



 



   (H)   Disposition of Collected Administrative Fines.  The fines
recovered pursuant to this section shall be deposited into the Graffiti
Technology and Recovery Fund established pursuant to Los Angeles
Administrative Code Sections 5.552, 5.553 and 5.554.



 



   (I)   Definitions.  For purposes of this Section, the following
definitions apply:



 



   (1)   "Enforcement Officer" means any peace officer or probation
officer delegated with the power to enforce any provision of this Code.



 



   (2)   "Issuing Department" means the City department that has
authority and responsibility for enforcing and prosecuting the Code section
that is the subject of the administrative citation.



 



   (3)   "Responsible Person" means any person who is responsible for,
or alleged to be responsible for, a violation and/or any parent or guardian
having custody and control of a minor committing such violation, on a joint
and several basis with such minor, provided such minor and parent or guardian
are each served with notice of violation.



 



 



SEC. 49.84.11.  NUISANCE ABATEMENT LIEN.



 



   (A)   Summary Abatement.  The City may summarily abate any nuisance
resulting from the defacement of the property of another by graffiti or any
other inscribed material at the expense of the minor or other person
creating, causing, or committing the nuisance and make the expense of
abatement of the nuisance a lien against the property of the person and a
personal obligation against that person.



 



   (1)   The determination of responsibility shall be presumed by any
confession, admission, guilty plea, or plea of nolo contendere to any
violation of Section 594, 594.3, 640.5, 640.6, or 640.7 of the California
Penal Code.



 



   (2)   In the case of a minor, responsibility shall be presumed by
any confession, admission, or by the minor being declared a ward of the
juvenile court pursuant to Section 602 of the Welfare and Institutions Code
by reason of the commission of an act prohibited by Section 594, 594.3,
640.5, 640.6 or 640.7 of the Penal Code



 



   (B)   Joint and Several Liability of Parent(s) or Guardian(s).  The
parent or guardian having custody and control of a minor committing a
nuisance described in Subsection (A), shall be jointly and severally liable
with the minor for the expense of abatement.  The unpaid expense of
abatement of any nuisance resulting from the defacement of the property of
another by graffiti or any other inscribed material shall become a lien
against the property of a parent or guardian having custody and control of
the minor, and a personal obligation against the parent or guardian having
custody and control of the minor.



 



   (C)   Definitions.  For purposes of this Section, the following
definitions apply:



 



   (1)   "Expense of abatement" includes, but is not limited to, court
costs, attorney's fees, costs of removal of the graffiti or other inscribed
material, costs of repair and replacement of defaced property, and the law
enforcement costs incurred by the City in identifying and apprehending the
minor or other person.



 



   (2)   "Minor" or "other person" means a minor or other person who
has confessed to, admitted to, or pled guilty or nolo contendere to a
violation of  Section 594, 594.3, 640.5, 640.6, or 640.7 of the California
Penal Code; or a minor convicted by final judgment of a violation of Section
594, 594.3, 640.5, 640.6, or 640.7 of the California Penal Code; or a minor
declared a ward of the juvenile court pursuant to Section 602 of the Welfare
and Institutions Code by reason of the commission of an act prohibited by
Section 594, 594.3, 640.5, 640.6 or 640.7 of the Penal Code.



 



   (D)   Procedures.



 



   (1)   Collection of Expenses of Abatement.  Upon the determination
of the expense of abatement, the City, Board of Public Works or its
designated representative, shall send an abatement expense statement to the
responsible person(s) pursuant to Subsection (A), and if applicable,
Subsection (B), above.  Payment shall be due fifteen (15) calendar days from
the service of the abatement expense statement.



 



   (2)   Notice and Hearing.



 



   (a)   Within ten (10) calendar days of the mailing of the abatement
expense statement, any person served with an abatement expense statement may
file with the City representative who issued the statement, a written request
for a hearing on the correctness, reasonableness, or both of such claim of
abatement costs.



 



   (b)   Upon receipt of the written request for a hearing, the City
representative who issued the statement shall send notice describing the time
and place of such hearing by the United States mail, postage prepaid,
addressed to the requesting party's last-known address at least five days in
advance of the hearing.



 



   (c)   At the hearing, upon request, the city representative shall
receive all evidence presented by the responsible person and by the City. 
Thereupon, the City representative shall make such revision, correction, and
modification to the statement as deemed warranted, after which the statement
as submitted, or as revised, corrected, or modified, shall be confirmed. 
The decision of the City representative shall be final.



 



   (d)   Suspension of Abatement Costs.  The obligation to pay the
expenses of abatement otherwise required under subsection (D)(1) of this
section shall be suspended during the pendency of any hearing provided for
under this Subsection.  Upon the City representative rendering his or her
decision following a hearing, payment of the confirmed or otherwise revised,
corrected, or modified abatement expense statement shall be made within ten
(10) calendar days following service of the City representative's decision
upon the responsible person.



 



   (3)   Lien Against Property for Unpaid Expenses.



 



   (a)   The City may make the unpaid expenses of abatement a lien
against the property of the person committing a nuisance described in
Subsection (A), above, and, where such person is a minor, against the
property of the parent or guardian having custody and control of such minor.



 



   (b)   Notice of Intent to Lien.  Notice of Intent to record a lien
shall be given to the minor or other person and to the parent or guardian
having custody and control of the minor prior to the recordation of any
lien.  Said notice shall be served in the same manner as a civil action in
accordance with the Code of Civil Procedure Section 415.10.  If the minor or
other person, and/or the parent or guardian having custody and control of the
minor, after diligent search, cannot be found, the notice may be served by
posting a copy of the Notice in a conspicuous place upon the property for a
period ten (10) days and publication thereof in a newspaper of general
circulation published in the county in which the property is located pursuant
to Government Code Section 6062.



 



   (c)   Recordation.  A graffiti nuisance abatement lien shall be
recorded in the County Recorder's Office in the county in which the parcel of
land is located and from the date of recording shall have the force, effect,
and priority of a judgment lien.



 



   (d)   Specific Data.  A graffiti nuisance abatement lien authorized
by this section shall specify the amount of the lien; the name of the agency
on whose behalf the lien is imposed; the date of the abatement order; the
street address, legal description, and assessor's parcel number of the parcel
on which the lien is imposed; and the name and address of the recorded owner
of the parcel.



 



   (e)   Discharge.  If the lien is discharged, released, or satisfied
through payment or foreclosure, notice of the discharge containing the
information specified in Subsection (d), above, shall be recorded by the
governmental agency.  A graffiti nuisance abatement lien and the release of
the lien shall be indexed in the grantor-grantee index.



 



   (f)   A graffiti nuisance abatement lien may be satisfied through
foreclosure in an action brought by the City.



 



   (g)   The City may recover from the property owner any costs
incurred regarding the processing and recording of the lien and providing
notice to the property owner as part of its foreclosure action to enforce the
lien.



 



   (E)   Alternative Procedure for Assessment.



 



   (1)   As an alternative to the nuisance lien described in subsection
(A) and (B), above, the City may make the costs associated with the expense
of abatement, as defined in Subsection (C), above, a special assessment
against the parcel of land owned by the person committing a nuisance
described in Subsection (A), above, and, where such person is a minor,
against the property of the parent or guardian having custody and control of
such minor.



 



   (2)   The assessment may be collected at the same time and in the
same manner as ordinary municipal taxes are collected and shall be subject to
the same penalties and the same procedure and sale in case of delinquency as
provided for ordinary municipal taxes pursuant to Government Code Section
38773.7.



 



   (F)   Second or Subsequent Civil or Criminal Judgment.



 



   (1)   Upon the entry of a second or subsequent civil or criminal
judgment within a two-year period finding that an owner of property or a
minor or other person as defined in this Section is responsible for a
condition that may be abated in accordance with this provision, except of
conditions abated pursuant to Section 17980 of the Health and Safety Code,
the court may order that person to pay treble the costs of the abatement.



 



 



SEC. 49.84.12.  PENALTIES.



 



   (A)   Criminal Penalties.



 



   (1)   The civil and administrative penalties set forth in this
section are not exclusive and may be used in addition to those set forth
elsewhere in this Code or by other law.



 



   (B)   Civil Penalties.



 



   (1)   Irrespective of and cumulative to any criminal conviction for
an act of graffiti or any final adjudication by the Juvenile Court or
placement on a supervised program by the probation officer under the
provisions of the Welfare and Institutions Code of the State of California
for such act, any person who violates any provision or fails to comply with
any requirement or provision of this Article, shall be liable for a civil
penalty in a civil action brought by the City Attorney in an amount not to
exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each violation. Each day of such
conduct and each separate and distinct property victimized by an act of
graffiti shall be considered a separate and distinct violation.  The civil
penalty prescribed by this Subsection may be sought in addition to, and not
in lieu of, any other remedy, including, but not limited to, criminal
remedies, injunctive relief, specific performance, or any other remedy.



 



   (2)   Determining the Amount.  In determining the amount of the
civil penalty, the court shall consider all relevant circumstances, including
but not limited to: costs to the City relating to cleanup of graffiti caused
by such person, costs to law enforcement incurred in identifying and
apprehending such person, special costs to the City in the form of the
payment of any reward in connection with any criminal action against such
person, the degree of offense to the public as determined by the magnitude,
form and visual prominence of the graffiti, the history of previous
violations by the person committing graffiti, the assets, liabilities and net
worth of the person, and any corrective action taken by the person committing
the graffiti.



 



   (3)   Disposition of Penalties Collected.  All civil penalties
collected shall be deposited into the Graffiti Technology and Recovery Fund
established pursuant to Los Angeles Administrative Code Sections 5.552, 5.553
and 5.554.



 



   (C)   Administrative Penalties.



 



   (1)   Any person who violates any provision or fails to comply with
any requirement or provision of this Article shall be subject to an
administrative fine as specified in Section 49.93.



 



   (a)   The administrative fine prescribed by this Subsection may be
sought in addition to, and not in lieu of, any other remedy, including, but
not limited to, criminal remedies, injunctive relief, specific performance,
or any other remedy.



 



   (2)   Disposition of Penalties Collected.  All administrative
penalties collected shall be deposited into the Graffiti Technology and
Recovery Fund established pursuant to Los Angeles Administrative Code
Sections 5.552, 5.553 and 5.554.



 



 



SEC. 49.84.13.  SEVERABILITY.



 



   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this Article
is for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by decision of any
court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity
of the remaining portions of the chapter.  The City Council hereby declares
that it would have passed this Article and each section, subsection, clause
or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that one or more other sections,
subsections, clauses or phrases may be declared invalid or unconstitutional.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 14.1
EVICTION OF TENANTS FROM FORECLOSED RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTIES



 




(Added by Ord. No. 180,441, Eff. 12/23/08.)




 



 



Section



49.90   Purpose.



49.91   Definitions.



49.92   Evictions.



49.93   Remedies.



49.94   Promulgation of Rules and Regulations.



49.95   Sunset Provision.



49.96   Severability.



 



 



SEC. 49.90.  PURPOSE.



 



   The purpose of this Article is to prevent the displacement of tenants
and the loss of rental units in the City of Los Angeles due to the
foreclosure of the property, and to prevent homelessness and nuisances and
blight caused by vacant foreclosed properties.



 



 



SEC. 49.91.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   The following words and phrases, whenever used in this Article, shall
be construed as defined in this Section.  Words and phrases not defined in
this Section shall be construed as defined in Section 151.02 of this Code.



 



   Foreclosure:  The reversion or transfer of title to a property to a
lender, mortgagee, or beneficiary of a deed of trust, or an agent thereof, in
full or partial satisfaction of a defaulted obligation.



 



   Rental Unit:  All dwelling units, efficiency dwelling units, guest
rooms, and suites, as defined in Section 12.03 of this Code, and all housing
accommodations as defined in Government Code Section 12927, and duplexes and
condominiums in the City of Los Angeles, rented or offered for rent for
living or dwelling purposes, the land and buildings appurtenant thereto, and
all housing services, privileges, furnishings and facilities supplied in
connection with the use or occupancy thereof, including garage and parking
facilities.  This term shall also include mobile homes, whether rent is paid
for the mobile home and the land upon which the mobile home is located, or
rent is paid for the land alone.  Further, it shall include recreational
vehicles, as defined in California Civil Code Section 799.29 if located in a
mobilehome park or recreational vehicle park, whether rent is paid for the
recreational vehicle and the land upon which it is located, or rent is paid
for the land alone.  The term "Rental Unit" shall not include accommodations
that are exempt from the Rent Stabilization Ordinance of the City of Los
Angeles by any of the following provisions:



 



   Paragraph 2., 3., 4., 5., 9., 10., or 11. of the definition of "Rental
Units" in Section 151.02 of this Code.



 



 



SEC. 49.92.  EVICTIONS.



 



   A landlord who obtains title through Foreclosure to property containing
Rental Units may bring an action to recover possession of a Rental Unit on
the property from a tenant whose tenancy commenced on or before the date that
the landlord obtained title, only upon the grounds set forth in Subdivision
A. of Section 151.09 of this Code.  To recover possession of a Rental Unit
from a tenant, the landlord must comply with all of the requirements and
provisions of Section 151.09, including, without limitation, the payment of
relocation fees required pursuant to the provisions of Subsection G. of
Section 151.09.



 



 



SEC. 49.93.  REMEDIES.



 



   In addition to all remedies and penalties provided by law, any person
who violates the provisions of this Article shall be subject to the
provisions of Subsections B. and C. of Section 151.10 of this Code.



 



 



SEC. 49.94.  PROMULGATION OF RULES AND REGULATIONS.



 



   The Rent Adjustment Commission of the City of Los Angeles and the
Housing and Community Investment Department shall have the authority to adopt
policies, rules and regulations to effectuate the purposes of this Article,
and to implement, administer, and enforce the provisions of this Article. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 182,718, Eff. 10/30/13.)



 



 



SEC. 49.95.  SUNSET PROVISION.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 185,538, Eff. 6/26/18.)



 



   The provisions of this Article shall be in effect through December 31,
2020, unless the City Council acts by ordinance to amend this Section to
extend its effective period.



 



 



SEC. 49.96.  SEVERABILITY.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,538, Eff. 6/26/18.)



 



   If any provision of this Article is found to be unconstitutional or
otherwise invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, that invalidity
shall not affect the remaining provisions of this Article which can be
implemented without invalid provisions, and to this end, the provisions of
this article are declared to be severable.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 14.5
TEMPORARY PROHIBITION OF NO-FAULT EVICTIONS



 




(Added by Ord. No. 186,340, Eff. 10/24/19.)




 



 



Section



49.98   Purpose.



49.98.1   Definitions.



49.98.2   Prohibition on Evictions.



49.98.3   Application.



49.98.4   Severability.



 



 



SEC. 49.98.  PURPOSE.



 



   On October 8, 2019, Assembly Bill 1482 ("AB 1482"), the Tenant
Protections Act of 2019, was passed to address a key cause of California's
affordable housing crisis by preventing rent gouging and arbitrary
evictions.  AB 1482 becomes effective on January 1, 2020.



 



   The City of Los Angeles is experiencing a housing affordability crisis,
which is driving homelessness and displacement of residents to an
unprecedented scale.  A majority the City's renters are rent burdened,
paying over 30 percent of their income on rent.  About one-third of renters
are severely rent burdened, paying over 50 percent of their income on rent. 
Although approximately 76 percent of the multi-family rental units in the
City of Los Angeles are regulated by the Rent Stabilization Ordinance
("RSO"), which protects renters from extraordinary rent increases and
arbitrary evictions, no similar renter protections presently exist for the
approximately 138,000 households in the City that will be covered by AB 1482
beginning on January 1, 2020.



 



   Rapidly escalating real estate values provide an incentive to landlords
to evict long-term, lower-income tenants, without cause, to raise rents and
attract wealthier tenants, before AB 1482 becomes effective.  Tenants in
non-RSO units have already reported experiencing a surge of no-fault eviction
notices and threats of eviction.  Therefore, it is imperative that the City
implement temporary strategies to keep people housed.



 



   This article will temporarily prohibit no-fault evictions through
December 31, 2019, for residential real property that will be covered by AB
1482 beginning on January 1, 2020.



 



 



SEC. 49.98.1.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   The following words and phrases, whenever used in this article, shall
be construed as defined in this section.



 



   Owner.  The term "owner" is any person, acting as principal or through
an agent, offering residential real property for rent, and includes a
predecessor in interest to the owner.



 



   Residential real property.  The term "residential real property" is
any dwelling or unit that is intended or used for human habitation.



 



 



SEC. 49.98.2.  PROHIBITION ON EVICTIONS.



 



   A.   Through December 31, 2019, the owner of residential rental
property shall not terminate a lawful tenancy without at-fault just cause,
unless the termination is required to comply with an order issued by a
government agency or court necessitating vacating the residential real
property or to comport with due process, federal, or state law, which shall
be stated in the written notice of termination of tenancy.  This prohibition
shall also apply to an owner's action that constitutes constructive eviction
under California law.  An owner's failure to comply with this article shall
render any notice of termination of tenancy void.  This article may be
asserted as an affirmative defense in an unlawful detainer action.  An
owner's failure to comply with this article does not constitute a criminal
offense.  This section does not in any way adversely affect or abrogate the
rights of tenants under the Rent Stabilization Ordinance.



 



   B.   At-fault just cause is the following:



 



   1.   Default in the payment of rent.



 



   2.   A breach of a material term of the lease, as described in
paragraph (3) of Section 1161 of the California Code of Civil Procedure,
including, but not limited to, violation of a provision of a lease after
being issued a written notice to correct the violation.



 



   3.   Maintaining, committing, or permitting the maintenance or
commission of a nuisance as described in paragraph (4) of Section 1161 of the
California Code of Civil Procedure.



 



   4.   Criminal activity by the tenant on the residential real
property, including any common areas, or any criminal activity or criminal
threat, as defined in subdivision (a) of Section 422 of the California Penal
Code, on or off the residential real property against the owner of the
residential real property.



 



   5.   Assigning or subletting the premises in violation of the
tenant's lease, as described in paragraph (4) of Section 1161 of the
California Code of Civil Procedure.



 



   6.   The tenant's refusal to allow the owner to enter the
residential real property as authorized by Sections 1101.5 and 1954 of the
California Civil Code, and Sections 13113.7 and 17926.1 of the California
Health and Safety Code.



 



   7.   Using the premises for an unlawful purpose as described in
paragraph (4) of Section 1161 of the California Code of Civil Procedure.



 



   8.   The employee, agent, or licensee's failure to vacate after
their termination as an employee, agent, or a licensee as described in
paragraph (1) of Section 1161 of the California Code of Civil Procedure.



 



   9.   When the tenant fails to deliver possession of the residential
real property after providing the owner written notice as provided in Section
1946 of the California Civil Code of the tenant's intention to terminate the
hiring of the real property, or makes a written offer to surrender that is
accepted in writing by the owner, but fails to deliver possession at the time
specified in that written notice as described in paragraph (5) of Section
1161 of the California Code of Civil Procedure.



 



   C.   This article shall not apply to any of the following
residential real property or residential circumstances:



 



   1.   Transient and tourist hotel occupancy as defined in subdivision
(b) of Section 1940 of the California Civil Code.



 



   2.   Housing accommodations in a nonprofit hospital, religious
facility, extended care facility, licensed residential care facility for the
elderly, as defined in Section 1569.2 of the Health and Safety Code, or an
adult residential facility, as defined in Chapter 6 of Division 6 of Title 22
of the Manual of Policies and Procedures published by the State Department of
Social Services.



 



   3.   Dormitories owned and operated by an institution of higher
education or a kindergarten and grades 1 to 12, inclusive, school.



 



   4.   Housing accommodations in which the tenant shares bathroom or
kitchen facilities with the owner who maintains their principal residence at
the residential real property.



 



   5.   Single-family owner-occupied residences, including a residence
in which the owner-occupant rents or leases no more than two units or
bedrooms, including, but not limited to, an accessory dwelling unit or a
junior accessory dwelling unit.



 



   6.   A duplex in which the owner occupied one of the units as the
owner's principal place of residence at the beginning of the tenancy, so long
as the owner continues in occupancy.



 



   7.   Housing that has been issued a certificate of occupancy within
the previous 15 years.



 



   8.   Residential real property that is alienable separate from the
title to any other dwelling unit, provided that the owner is not any of the
following:



 



   (a)   A real estate investment trust, as defined in Section 856 of
the Internal Revenue Code.



 



   (b)   A corporation.



 



   (c)   A limited liability company in which at least one member is a
corporation.



 



   9.   Housing restricted by deed, regulatory restriction contained in
an agreement with a government agency, or other recorded document as
affordable housing for persons and families of very low, low, or moderate
income, as defined in Section 50093 of the Health and Safety Code, or subject
to an agreement that provides housing subsidies for affordable housing for
persons and families of very low, low, or moderate income, as defined in
Section 50093 of the Health and Safety Code or comparable federal statutes.



 



 



SEC.49.98.3.  APPLICATION.



 



   This article shall apply to tenancies where the tenant remains in
possession and the eviction lawsuit has not been adjudicated.



 



 



SEC. 49.98.4  SEVERABILITY.



 



   If any provision of this article is found to be unconstitutional or
otherwise invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, that invalidity
shall not affect the remaining provisions of this article which can be
implemented without the invalid provisions, and to this end, the provisions
of this article are declared to be severable.  The City Council hereby
declares that it would have adopted this article and each provision thereof
irrespective of whether any one or more provisions are found invalid,
unconstitutional or otherwise unenforceable.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 15
URGENT REPAIR PROGRAM



 




(Added by Ord. No. 171,689, Eff. 9/22/97.)




 



 



Section



50.00   Urgent Repair Program.



 



 



SEC. 50.00.  URGENT REPAIR PROGRAM.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 182,718, Eff. 10/30/13.)



 



   A.   Statement of Purpose.  The Urgent Repair Program (“URP”)
will give the City a powerful new tool in the City’s effort to alleviate
substandard conditions in the City’s worst slum properties.



 



   The purpose of this new program is to immediately address critical
habitability problems in multi-family buildings where the landlords have
refused to address these problems.  The URP establishes procedures to enable
the Housing and Community Investment Department ("HCID") to cause the repairs
to be made.



 



   URP is not a program that will make all necessary repairs to a
building, thereby bringing the building up to code standards.  The URP will
only address repairs of uninhabitable conditions under California Civil Code
Section 1941.1 and Los Angeles Municipal Code Section 57.107.6 as defined in
Subsection B.  (Amended by Ord. No. 175,596, Eff. 12/7/03.)



 



   With the addition of the URP to the City’s arsenal of tools for
dealing with slum properties, the City can look forward to increasing safer,
and more decent and sanitary housing for primarily low income residents.



 



   B.   Criteria Used for Authorizing HCID to Take Action.  Only
habitability violations that are determined by the appropriate agency to
violate Civil Code Section 1941.1 and/or Los Angeles Municipal Code Section
57.107.6 and constitute a present, imminent, extreme and immediate hazard or
danger to life or limb, health or safety will be addressed by this program.



 



   C.   Process.



 



   1.   Dangerous, life threatening conditions may be identified by
tenants, City agencies, Council Offices, the Problem Property Resolution Team
(“PPRT”), or the Los Angeles County Health Department, and brought
directly to the HCID in the form of a complaint.



 



   2.   HCID shall have the authority to immediately contact the
appropriate enforcement agency to report the violations and confirm any
existing enforcement history.  If the conditions on the property meet the
criteria as set forth in Subsection B. above, the appropriate enforcement
agency may issue a “Two Day Order” to repair the violation.



 



   3.   If the owner of the property does not commence the repair work
for the violations within two days, HCID shall have the authority to
designate a contractor preselected by HCID to make the repairs.



 



   HCID shall at all times act consistent with applicable laws.  Nothing
herein shall be interpreted as authorizing the impairment of the
constitutional rights of any person.



 



   4.   If the Two Day Order, including any extensions, expires without
compliance, HCID may refer the property to the Rent Escrow Account Program
(REAP), in accordance with Article 2 of Chapter XVI of this Code, and in
particular Section 162.03, for the purpose of recovery by the City of all
costs incurred by it pursuant to URP.  The landlord may request a hearing
before the General Manager to appeal any decision placing a unit or building
into REAP in accordance with Section 162.06.  (Amended by Ord. No. 175,596,
Eff. 12/7/03.)



 



   5.   All costs incurred pursuant to this section shall be a personal
obligation against the owner of the property, recoverable by the City in an
action before any court of competent jurisdiction.  These costs shall
include an amount equal to 40 percent of the cost to perform the actual work,
but not less than the sum of $100.00, to cover the City’s costs for
administering any contract and supervising the work required.  In addition
to the personal obligation and all other remedies provided by law, the City
may collect any judgment, fee, cost, or charge, including any permit fees,
fines, late charges, or interest, incurred in relation to the provisions of
this section as provided in Los Angeles Administrative Code Sections 7.35.1
through 7.35.8.  (Amended by Ord. No. 175,596, Eff. 12/7/03.)



 



   6.   (Repealed by Ord. No. 175,596, Eff. 12/7/03.)



 



   D.   Additional Authority.



 



   1.   In carrying out the provisions of this section, HCID and the
appropriate enforcement agency shall have the authority to utilize any
provisions or procedures of state law applicable to the abatement of
substandard buildings, including but not limited to, obtaining any necessary
warrants or court orders;  seeking the appointment of a receiver; or using
the abatement procedures set forth in Article 3 (commencing with Section
17980) of Chapter 5 of Part 1.5 of Division 13 of the Health and Safety Code.



 



   2.   HCID shall have the authority to cause work to be performed at
the request of the tenant acting pursuant to Civil Code Section 1942, which
describes the tenant’s repair and deduct remedy, or pursuant to the written
consent of the landlord to perform the repair work on the premises.



 



   3.   HCID shall be responsible for carrying out the provisions of
this article.  It shall have the authority to promulgate rules and
regulations to effectuate the purposes of this article.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 16
CIVIL AND HUMAN RIGHTS LAW



 




(Added by Ord. No. 186,084, Eff. 6/9/19, Oper. 1/1/20.)




 



 



Section



51.00   Title and Purpose.



51.01   Authority.



51.02   Definitions.



51.03   Discrimination Prohibited.



51.04   Retaliation Prohibited.



51.05   Enforcement.



51.06   Individual Remedies for Violations.



51.07   Penalties and Corrective Actions for Violations.



51.08   Administrative Hearing.



51.09   Administrative Appeal.



51.10   Other Remedies Not Affected.



51.11   Administrative Procedures.



51.12   Reports.



51.13   Private Purpose.



51.14   No Conflict with State Law.



51.15   No Conflict with Federal Law.



51.16   Operative Date.



 



 



SEC. 51.00.  TITLE AND PURPOSE.



 



   This article shall be known as the "Los Angeles Civil and Human Rights
Ordinance."  The City of Los Angeles has benefited, and will continue to
benefit, from the economic, cultural and educational contributions of a wide
range of groups and communities who are all too often targets of abuse and
discrimination.



 



   The City of Los Angeles has a duty to protect and promote public
welfare within its boundaries and to protect residents and visitors against
discrimination, threats and retaliation based on a real or perceived
status.  Such discriminatory and prejudicial practices pose a substantial
threat to the health, safety and welfare of our community.  This ordinance
tasks the Civil and Human Rights Commission and its Executive Director to
investigate complaints of discrimination and enforce against violators.  By
holding businesses and individuals accountable for discriminatory behavior,
the City will make clear that discrimination will not be tolerated.



 



   The importance of discouraging discrimination that denies equal
treatment to any individual in private employment, housing, education or
commerce is one of the highest mandates for the welfare of those living in,
working in and visiting the City.



 



 



SEC. 51.01.  AUTHORITY.



 



   This article is adopted pursuant to the powers vested in the City of
Los Angeles under the laws and Constitution of the State of California and
the City Charter, including, but not limited to, the police powers vested in
the City pursuant to Article XI, Section 7 of the California Constitution.



 



 



SEC. 51.02.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   As used in this article, the following terms shall have the following
meanings:



 



   "Appellant" means a person who files an administrative appeal under
this article.



 



   "Appellee" means a person against whom an administrative appeal is
filed under this article.



 



   "City" means the City of Los Angeles.



 



   "Commission" means the Civil and Human Rights Commission.



 



   "Compensatory Penalty" means a monetary penalty imposed as penalty for
discrimination in violation of this article resulting in injury to the
Complainant. The term injury shall be liberally construed in favor of a
Complainant.



 



   "Complainant" means a person who files, with the Director, a complaint
alleging that his, her, or their right, granted or protected by this article,
has been violated by another person.



 



   "Director" means the Executive Director of the Commission.



 



   "Hearing Officer" means an independent decision-maker designated by the
Commission, such as pro tem judges provided by the Los Angeles Superior
Court, administrative law judges from the State of California's Office of
Administrative Hearings, and individuals trained in dispute resolution with a
minimum of 25 hours of classroom and practical training and experience
performing duties related to mediation and conflict resolution in accordance
with the requirements of the California Dispute Resolution Programs Act of
1986 (16 CCR § 1622), who shall be subject to disqualification for bias,
prejudice, conflict, or any other reason for which a judicial hearing officer
may be disqualified.  Hearing Officers shall not be City employees.



 



   "Respondent" means a person against whom a complaint is filed under
this article.



 



 



SEC. 51.03.  DISCRIMINATION PROHIBITED.



 



   A.   No person shall discriminate against another person in private
employment, housing, education or commerce, because of that person's actual
or perceived race, color, ethnicity, creed, age, national origin, religion,
citizenship status, gender, gender identity or expression, sexual
orientation, disability, medical condition, genetic information, marital
status, partnership status, employment status, income status, military status
or veteran status.



 



   B.   For purposes of this section, a violation by an agent or
employee is imputed to that person's principal or employer when the agent or
employee acts within the scope of the agency or employment relationship.



 



   C.   Exceptions.



 



   a.   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require anyone to
refer for employment, hire or continue to employ an individual when such
action would be in violation of federal law.



 



   b.   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit any
person from complying with any legal obligation under federal or state law,
including, but not limited to, any legal obligation under any federal
government program that provides for rent limitations or rental assistance to
a qualified tenant.



 



   c.   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit a person
from:



 



   i.   Prohibiting the illegal use of drugs or the use of alcohol at
the workplace;



 



   ii.   Prohibiting on duty impairment from the use of drugs or the
use of alcohol; or



 



   iii.   Conducting employee drug testing, when such testing is
otherwise lawful.



 



   d.   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit an
employer, employment agency, or agent thereof, when making employment
decisions with regard to hiring, compensation, or the terms, conditions or
privileges of employment, from considering any substantial job-related
qualifications, including but not limited to: 1) a current and valid
professional or occupational license; 2) a certificate, registration, permit,
or other credential; 3) a minimum level of education or training; or 4) a
minimum level of professional, occupational, or field experience.



 



   D.   Defenses.



 



   a.   It shall be an affirmative defense that the Complainant could
not, with reasonable accommodation, satisfy the essential requisites of the
job or enjoy the right or rights in question.



 



 



SEC. 51.04.  RETALIATION PROHIBITED.



 



   No person shall discriminate in any manner or retaliate against any
person for exercising rights protected under this article.  Rights protected
under this article include, but are not limited to: 1) the right to inform
any person of his, her, or their potential rights under this article and to
assist him, her, or them in asserting such rights; and 2) the right to file a
complaint or inform any person about any other person's alleged noncompliance
with this article.  This section shall apply to retaliation against any
Complainant who mistakenly, but in good faith, alleges a violation by a
Respondent.  Taking adverse action against a person within 90 calendar days
of that person's exercise of rights protected under this article shall raise
a rebuttable presumption of having done so in retaliation for the exercise of
such rights.



 



 



SEC. 51.05.  ENFORCEMENT.



 



   A.   Reporting Violations.  Any person whose rights, granted or
protected by this article, have been violated, even if that person's only
injury is the deprivation of that right granted or protected without physical
or monetary damages, may report a complaint to the Director.  The Director
shall encourage reporting pursuant to this article by keeping confidential,
to the maximum extent permitted by law, the name and other identifying
information of the Complainant.  With the authorization of the Complainant,
the Director may disclose the Complainant's name and identifying information
as necessary to conduct investigations under this article or for other
appropriate purposes.  The Director shall disclose the name and identifying
information of the Complainant at the time the Director issues a notice of
violation to the Respondent.



 



   B.   Investigation.  The Director shall be responsible for
investigating violations of this article.  A Respondent shall cooperate
fully in any investigation by the Director.  The Director shall have access
to the Respondent's business sites, housing locations and places of labor
subject to this ordinance during business hours to inspect books and records,
and to interview any relevant witnesses.  Respondents shall provide the
Director with their legal name, address, and telephone number in writing. 
The Director may request the Commission to subpoena witnesses, compel their
attendance and testimony, and require by subpoena the production of any
books, papers, records or other items relevant to inquiries, investigations
and enforcement actions under this article. 



 



   C.   Settlement.  The Director shall have the authority, at any
time, to enter into a settlement agreement with a Respondent.  The Director
shall present any such settlement agreement to the Commission for approval,
which shall have the authority only to approve or disapprove of the
agreement.  A settlement disapproved by the Commission shall be remanded to
the Executive Director, who shall resume enforcement authority over the
matter, including the authority to present a new settlement to the Commission.



 



   D.   Determination.  Whenever the Director finds that a violation
of Section 51.03 or Section 51.04 has occurred, the Director shall publicly
issue a notice of violation, which shall, in addition to describing the
violation, impose administrative penalties, Compensatory Penalties, if any,
and corrective actions, if any, consistent with Section 51.07.  The Director
shall serve the notice of violation, by First Class mail, on the respective
Complainant and Respondent.  The date of service shall be the date of the
postmark on the mailing.



 



 



SEC.  51.06.  INDIVIDUAL REMEDIES FOR VIOLATIONS.



 



   A.   Civil Enforcement.  A Complainant may bring a civil action in
a court of competent jurisdiction against any person violating this article
and shall be entitled to such legal or equitable relief as may be
appropriate, including, without limitation, damages, restitution, injunctive
relief, and reasonable attorneys' fees and costs.  Nothing in this section
shall preclude, or otherwise limit a civil action by the City, or a separate
or criminal prosecution under the Municipal Code or state law.  Jeopardy
shall not attach as a result of any administrative or civil enforcement
action taken pursuant to this article.  The right of a Complainant to bring
a civil action under this section shall not be waived by private agreement.



 



 



SEC. 51.07.  PENALTIES AND CORRECTIVE ACTIONS FOR VIOLATIONS.



 



   A.   Administrative Penalties, Compensatory Penalties, and
Corrective Actions.  In addition to any of the remedies and penalties set
forth in this article or any other law, where the Director determines that a
Respondent has violated Section 51.03 or Section 51.04, the Director shall
impose an administrative penalty.  The Director also may impose Compensatory
Penalties unless the Complainant has been previously awarded punitive damages
in a civil case arising out of the same act or transaction.  The cumulative
amount of the penalties imposed shall not exceed $125,000, except upon a
finding by the Director that a violation was the result of a Respondent's
harassing or violent act, in which case the cumulative amount of the
penalties shall not exceed $250,000.  The Director may also order a
Respondent to undertake corrective actions to remedy the violation or prevent
future violations.  Such administrative penalties, Compensatory Penalties,
and corrective actions shall be set forth in the notice of violation.



 



   B.   Criminal Penalties.  Any person who willfully resists,
obstructs or interferes with the Commission, the Director, or the Hearing
Officer in the performance of any duty under this article shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor and be punishable by a fine of not more than $1,000 and by
imprisonment in the County Jail for a period of not more than six months.



 



   C.   Payments to City; Due Date; Late Payment Penalty. 
Administrative penalties and Compensatory Penalties shall be due and payable
to the City within 30 calendar days from the date of the Director's notice of
violation.  Failure to timely pay a penalty will result in the assessment of
a late fee, assessed daily at a rate of 7 percent per annum of the
outstanding amount of the penalty and late fees, if any.  The City may
collect any unpaid penalty, including the late fee, by means of a civil
action, injunctive relief, specific performance and the recordation of a lien
against real property in accordance with applicable law.  Any administrative
penalties recovered pursuant to this section shall be paid to the City.  Any
Compensatory Penalties recovered pursuant to this section shall be paid to
the Complainant.



 



   D.   Severity of Penalties.  The Director shall impose penalties
for violations of this article only after considering factors, including but
not limited to: 1) the extent of harm caused by the violation; 2) the nature
and persistence of the violation; 3) the length of time over which the
violation occurs; 4) past violations; 5) any action taken to mitigate the
violation; and 6) the financial burden to the Respondent.



 



 



SEC. 51.08.  ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING.



 



   A.   Request for Hearing.  A Respondent may file with the
Commission a request for hearing within 15 calendar days from the date the
notice of violation is served upon the Respondent.  In order to be
considered timely, the request for hearing must be postmarked or received by
the Commission within the 15 calendar days.  The request for hearing must:
1) be in writing; 2) specify in detail the objections to the notice of
violation; and 3) indicate the Respondent's preferred return mailing address.



 



   B.   Hearing Date.  As soon as practicable after receiving the
request for a hearing, the Commission or its designee shall select a Hearing
Officer to hear and rule on the notice of violation.  The Hearing Officer
shall fix a date, time and place for the hearing.  Written notice of the
time and place for the hearing shall be served, by First Class mail, on the
Director and on the Respondent at the return address indicated on the request
for a hearing.  Service of the notice of hearing must be made at least 20
calendar days prior to the date of the hearing.  The hearing shall be held
no later than 45 calendar days after service of the notice of hearing, unless
that time is extended by mutual agreement.



 



   C.   Notice of Hearing.  Except as otherwise provided by law, the
failure of the Respondent to receive a properly addressed and mailed notice
of the hearing shall not affect the validity of any proceedings under this
article.  Service by First Class mail, postage prepaid, shall be effective
on the date of mailing.



 



   D.   Stay of Enforcement.  The accrual of penalties shall be stayed
until the final determination of the hearing.



 



   E.   Failure to Request Hearing.  Upon the failure of a Respondent
to file a request for hearing in accordance with the provisions of this
section or to appear at the hearing, the Director's notice of violation shall
immediately become final and enforceable.



 



   F.   Submittals for the Hearing.  No fewer than seven calendar days
prior to the hearing, the Director and the Respondent shall submit to the
Hearing Officer, with simultaneous service by First Class mail to one
another, the statement of issues to be determined by the Hearing Officer, a
statement of the evidence to be offered and the witnesses to be presented at
the hearing, and any other relevant evidence.



 



   G.   Conduct of Hearing.  The Hearing Officer shall conduct all
hearings under this section and may accept evidence on which persons would
commonly rely in the conduct of their business affairs, including, but not
limited to, the following:



 



   1.   A notice of the Director, which shall be considered to be prima
facie evidence of the violation(s) specified therein; and



 



   2.   Oral and written testimony under penalty of perjury relating to
the violation(s) and the appropriate means of correcting the violation(s).



 



   The hearing shall be open to the public and shall be audio recorded. 
Any party to the hearing may, at their own expense, cause the hearing to be
video recorded or transcribed by a certified court reporter.  The Director
shall have the burden of proof by a preponderance of the evidence in each
hearing.  The Hearing Officer may continue the hearing and order the
production of additional information from the Director or Respondent prior to
issuing a written decision.  The Commission may adopt written procedures for
the conduct of hearings pursuant to this article, including, but not limited
to, the use of witnesses and evidence.



 



   H.   Hearing Officer's Findings and Determinations.  Within 30
calendar days after the conclusion of the hearing, the Hearing Officer shall
make findings in the form of an administrative ruling based on the record of
the hearing and may uphold or reject the violation(s) referenced in the
Director's notice of violation in whole or in part.  The Hearing Officer
also may uphold the notice of violation and increase, reduce, waive or
conditionally increase, reduce or waive the administrative penalties,
Compensatory Penalties, or both, based on specific findings of aggravating or
mitigating circumstances drawn from the evidence presented at the hearing. 
The Hearing Officer may impose, reduce, waive or conditionally reduce or
waive conditions imposed by the Director including the modification of
deadlines for the correction of violations or the payment of outstanding
penalties.  The Hearing Officer shall serve the administrative ruling, by
First Class mail, on the Director and Respondent.  The date of service shall
be the date of the postmark on the mailing.



 



   I.   Payment of Penalties.  Penalties imposed by the Hearing
Officer pursuant to this article shall be due and payable in accordance with
Section 51.07.



 



 



SEC. 51.09.  ADMINISTRATIVE APPEAL.



 



   A.   Notice of Appeal.  The Director or Respondent may file a
notice of appeal with the Commission within 15 calendar days of the date of
service of the administrative ruling.  In order to be considered timely, the
notice of appeal must be postmarked or received by the Commission within the
15 calendar days.  The notice of appeal must: 1) be in writing; 2) specify
in detail the basis for the appeal; and 3) indicate the Appellant's preferred
return mailing address.



 



   B.   Appeal Process.  As soon as practicable after receiving the
written notice of appeal, the Commission shall determine whether to issue a
final ruling based upon the administrative record or to set a hearing to
decide on the administrative appeal.



 



   1.   If the Commission elects to issue a final ruling based upon the
administrative record, the Commission shall issue such ruling within 30
calendar days of receipt of the notice of appeal.



 



   2.   If the Commission elects to conduct a hearing on the
administrative appeal, the hearing shall be noticed, scheduled and conducted
in accordance with Section 51.08, except that the Commission shall act in
place of the Hearing Officer.  Within 30 calendar days after the conclusion
of the hearing, the Commission shall rule on the appeal.



 



   C.    Standard of Review.  The Commission shall review the Hearing
Officer's ruling under an abuse of discretion standard.



 



   D.   Failure to Appeal.  Failure of the Appellant to file a notice
of appeal in accordance with the provisions of this section or to appear at
the Commission appeal hearing shall constitute a failure to exhaust
administrative remedies.  In such instance, the Hearing Officer's ruling
shall become final and enforceable.



 



   E.   Submittals for the Hearing.  No fewer than seven calendar days
prior to the appeal, the Appellant and Appellee shall submit to the
Commission, with simultaneous service by First Class mail to one another, the
statement of issues to be determined by the Commission, a statement of the
evidence to be offered and the witnesses to be presented at the hearing, and
any other relevant evidence.



 



   F.   Commission Ruling.  If the Commission finds that the Hearing
Officer's ruling is based upon an abuse of discretion, the Commission may
reject the ruling of the Hearing Officer in whole or in part.  In so doing,
the Commission may: 1) reinstate, reduce, waive or conditionally reduce or
waive the administrative penalties; 2) reinstate, reduce, waive or
conditionally reduce or waive the Compensatory Penalties; 3) impose, reduce,
waive or conditionally reduce or waive conditions imposed in the ruling; and
4) alter deadlines for the correction of violations or the payment of the
outstanding penalties.



 



   G.   Final Order.  The ruling of the Commission pursuant to this
section shall constitute a final order, which shall be served on the Director
and the Respondent by Certified mail.  The Commission's final order is
subject to judicial review, pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure
Section 1094.5.



 



 



SEC. 51.10.  OTHER REMEDIES NOT AFFECTED.



 



   The administrative enforcement procedures established in this article
shall be in addition to any other criminal, civil or other remedy established
by law to address violations of this article.  A ruling by the Hearing
Officer or the Commission issued pursuant to this article shall not prejudice
or adversely affect any other action, civil or criminal, that may be brought
to prosecute or abate a violation or to seek compensation for damages
suffered.



 



 



SEC. 51.11.  ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES.



 



   Pursuant to Sec. 22.1210 of the Los Angeles Administrative Code, the
Commission shall promulgate and enforce rules and administrative procedures,
including, but not limited to, evidentiary rules created for the fair and
efficient conduct of hearings and appeals in order to better carry out the
purposes of this article.



 



 



SEC. 51.12.  REPORTS.



 



   The Director shall provide annual reports to the City Council on the
implementation of this Ordinance.



 



 



SEC. 51.13.  PRIVATE PURPOSE.



 



   The City Council finds that this Ordinance is intended to promote the
investigation of and enforcement against discrimination between and against
private parties.  Nothing in this article is intended to create a private
right of action against, or authorize the Commission or the Director to
investigate allegations of discrimination by, public officials, employees or
agencies in federal, state or local government.



 



 



SEC. 51.14.  NO CONFLICT WITH STATE LAW.



 



   This article is not intended to conflict with state law.  This article
shall be interpreted to be compatible with state enactments and in
furtherance of the public purposes that those enactments encompass. To the
extent that the Fair Employment and Housing Act (FEHA), Cal. Gov. Code §
12900, et seq., has occupied the field of enforcement of discrimination in
employment and housing encompassed by the provisions of that act, this
article shall provide no separate remedy.  Notwithstanding the foregoing,
this article is intended to remedy those discriminatory actions in housing
and employment and provide remedies to those protected classes that are not
encompassed by the provisions of FEHA.



 



 



SEC. 51.15.  NO CONFLICT WITH FEDERAL LAW.



 



   This article is not intended to conflict with federal law or stand as
an obstacle or conflict with any efforts by the federal government to enforce
Federal laws.



 



 



SEC. 51.16.  OPERATIVE DATE.



 



   The provisions of this article shall become operative on January 1,
2020.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 17
PET OWNERSHIP IN PUBLICLY-FINANCED HOUSING DEVELOPMENTS



 




(Added by Ord. No. 186,228, Eff. 8/25/19.)




 



 



Section



51.20   Findings and Purpose.



51.21   Definitions.



51.22   Pet-Friendly Publicly-Financed Housing.



51.23   Remedies.



51.24   Severability.



 



 



SEC. 51.20.  FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.



 



   The City of Los Angeles is experiencing a housing affordability crisis
of unprecedented proportions, with estimates of the need for additional
rental units ranging as high as 500,000 over the coming decade.  While
federal, state and local housing finance programs are in place to help
address this need, "no-pet" policies require tenants to choose between
residence in these units and relinquishing their pets.



 



   The growth in housing relocation over the past decade has exacerbated
this problem.  As the City promotes and assists in financing new, affordable
housing, pet ownership should not pose a barrier to individuals and families
who qualify for residence in publicly-financed rental housing.  Federal and
state laws already require allowing pets in certain publicly-financed housing
developments, including California Health and Safety Code Section 50466 and
24 Code of Federal Regulations Part 960.



 



   The purpose of this article is to ensure that tenants of a housing
development financed by the City are allowed to maintain pets in their homes,
consistent with and subject to applicable federal, state, and local laws and
regulations.



 



 



SEC. 51.21.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   The following words and phrases, whenever used in this article, shall
be construed as defined in this section.



 



   A.   Department.  The Housing and Community Investment Department.



 



   B.   Pet.  A common household domesticated animal such as a dog,
cat, rabbit, bird, mouse, rat or similar small rodent, fish or turtle that is
kept in the home for pleasure rather than for commercial purposes.  "Pet"
does not include any equine (including any horse, pony, donkey, burro or
mule), swine, sheep, goat, cattle, poultry or other similar livestock.  If
this definition conflicts with any applicable state law or regulation
defining the pets that may be owned or kept in residential dwellings, the
state law or regulation shall apply.



 



   C.   Public Financing or Publicly Financed.  Funding obtained from
or through the City, including federal, state, and local funding sources, in
the form of a loan and/or grant used to build new multi-family housing
units.  This term shall not include any local, state or federal rental
subsidy or assistance such as those provided under 42 U.S.C. § 1437f.



 



   D.   Rental Unit.  All dwelling units, efficiency dwelling units,
guest rooms and suites, as defined in Section 12.03 of this Code, and all
housing accommodations as defined in California Government Code Section
12927, as well as duplexes and condominiums rented or offered for rent for
living or dwelling purposes, including the land and buildings appurtenant
thereto, and all housing services, privileges, furnishings, and facilities
supplied in connection with the use or occupancy thereof, including garage
and parking facilities.  This term shall also include mobile homes, whether
rent is paid for the mobile home and/or for the land upon which the mobile
home is located.  The term shall include recreational vehicles as defined in
California Civil Code Section 799.29 if located in a mobile home park or
recreational vehicle park whether rent is paid for the recreational vehicle
and/or for the land upon which it is located.



 



   E.   Tenant.  A tenant, subtenant, lessee, sublessee or any other
person entitled to the use or occupancy of a rental unit.



 



 



SEC. 51.22.  PET-FRIENDLY PUBLICLY-FINANCED HOUSING.



 



   A.   An applicant for, or a tenant of, a rental unit in a housing
development publicly financed by or through the City on or after the
effective date of this article, shall not be rejected on the basis of pet
ownership, nor denied the ability to own or otherwise possess and maintain at
least one pet per rental unit, provided that the pet is maintained in
accordance with Article 3, Chapter V, of this Code pertaining to animals and
fowls, and all other applicable state and local laws and regulations,
including those related to public health and humane animal welfare, and
guidelines and regulations promulgated by the Department in furtherance of
this article.  This article shall also apply to a publicly financed housing
development for which a contractual modification or amendment, or additional
public financing, is provided by or through the City, on or after the
effective date of this article.



 



   B.   Each pet maintained pursuant to this article shall be spayed or
neutered, vaccinated, implanted with an electronic animal identification
device (microchip) and, if required, licensed.  The pet shall be maintained
consistent with all state and local laws and regulations, and not constitute
a nuisance to the housing development and/or to the other tenants.



 



   C.   Any pet deposit charged to the tenant shall be reasonable and
refundable.  The pet deposit shall be used only to pay reasonable expenses
directly related to the presence of the pet in the housing development, such
as the cost of repairs and replacements to, and fumigation of, the tenant's
rental unit.  Pet deposits shall be administered consistent with state and
local laws applicable to the retention of security deposits, interest on
security deposits, and return of the deposit or portion thereof to the
tenant, and any other applicable requirements.



 



   D.   The Department shall, in consultation with the Department of
Animal Services, develop "pet policies" that provide guidance to ensure that
the presence of pets in publicly-financed housing developments is done in a
responsible, safe, and harmonious manner.  The Department shall incorporate
such "pet policies" in the Department's public financing regulations.  The
Department's public financing regulations shall require landlords to provide
a copy of the "pet policies" to the tenants of such housing developments.



 



   E.   Nothing in this article shall be construed to limit or
otherwise affect other statutes or laws that require reasonable
accommodations to be made for an individual with a disability who maintains
an animal to provide assistance, service or support.



 



   F.   Nothing in this article shall be construed to prohibit the
removal of any common household pet from a housing development if the pet's
conduct or condition is determined to constitute a violation of state or
local law or a nuisance or a threat to the health or safety of other
occupants of the housing development, or of other persons in the community
where the housing development is located.



 



 



SEC. 51.23.  REMEDIES.



 



   A.   Civil Liability.  A tenant may enforce the provisions of this
article by means of a civil action.  Any person who violates any provision
of this article or who aids in any such violation is liable for actual
damages or three times the amount of one month's rent that the landlord
charges for the rental unit at issue, whichever is higher.  The court may
also award attorney's fees and costs.



 



   B.   Equitable Relief.  Any person may bring an action for
equitable relief against the landlord, including, but not limited to, an
injunction, to secure compliance with the provisions of this article.



 



   C.   Affirmative Defense.  This article may be asserted as an
affirmative defense in an unlawful detainer action related to the ownership
or maintenance of the pet in the rental unit.



 



   D.   Nonexclusive Remedies and Penalties.  The remedies provided in
this article are not exclusive, and nothing in this article shall preclude
any person from seeking any other remedies, penalties, or procedures provided
by law.



 



 



SEC. 51.24.  SEVERABILITY.



 



   If any provision of this article is found to be unconstitutional or
otherwise invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, that invalidity
shall not affect the remaining provisions of this article which can be
implemented without the invalid provisions, and to this end, the provisions
of this article are declared to be severable.  The City Council hereby
declares that it would have adopted this article and each provision thereof
irrespective of whether any one or more provisions are found invalid,
unconstitutional or otherwise unenforceable.



 



 



 



 


Disclaimer:
The information published on this website is updated periodically.
Consequently, there may be delays of up to three (3) months between the
passage of legislation and its posting. Please visit the City of Los Angeles
website at www.lacity.org to see more recently-enacted legislation.

