
Los Angeles Municipal Code


CHAPTER VII
TRANSPORTATION



 




(Chapter Title Amended by Ord. No. 152,426, Eff. 6/29/79.)




 



 



   Article



 




   1   Public Transportation










   2   Railroads and Railways




 



 



 



ARTICLE 1
PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION



 




(Art. 1, Title, Amended by Ord. No. 161,249, Eff. 6/20/86.)




 



 



Section



71.00   Scope and Definitions.



71.01   Authority of Board to Adopt Rules.



71.01.1   Authority of Designated Employees of the Department of
Transportation to Make Arrests and Issue Citations.



71.01.2   Authority of Designated Employees of the Department of
Transportation to Have Access to Summary Criminal History Information.



71.02   Operation of Vehicles – Permits or Franchises Required.



71.02.1   Suspension of Taxicab Franchise.



71.02.2   Monetary Penalties for Taxicab Operators.



71.02.3   Use of Public Rights-of-way.



71.03   Driving of Vehicles – Permits Required.



71.04   Ambulance Attendants – Permits Required.



71.04.1   Non-ambulatory Passenger Vehicle Attendants – Permits Required.



71.05   Application and Annual or Monthly Fee for Vehicle Permits.



71.06   Application for Driver and Ambulance Attendant Permits.



71.06.1   Application Processing and Other Fees.



71.06.2   Fees for Services Provided Outside of Normal Working Hours.



71.06.3   Review of Fees for Service.



71.07   The Board’s Power to Revoke or Suspend Driver, Attendant, or
Vehicle Permits.



71.08   Grounds for Denial, Revocation, Suspension or Cancellation of
Permit.



71.09   Procedures for Denial, Revocation, Suspension or Cancellation of
Permits by the General Manager or His Authorized Representative.



71.09.1   Rehearing.



71.09.2   Monetary Penalties for Driver, Vehicle and Attendant Permittees.



71.10   Regulations During Suspension Period.



71.11   Duration and Renewal of Permits.



71.12   Requirements of Public Convenience and Necessity.



71.13   Specific Findings Required.



71.14   Insurance or Bond Required.



71.15   Contracts Between Owners and Employees.



71.16   Taxicab Identification.



71.16.1   Vehicle Identification.



71.17   Licenses.



71.18   Permitted Vehicle Zones.



71.19   Vehicle Signs.



71.20   Taxicab Signs.



71.21   Other Signs – Permit Required.



71.22   Taximeters.



71.23   Circuitous Routes.



71.24   Excess Charges.



71.25   Authority of Board to Establish Rates.



71.26   Transportation Regulation and Enforcement Trust Fund.



71.27   Inspection of Limousine Waybills.



71.28   Compensation to Gain Access to Passengers.



71.29   Regulation of Shared Mobility Devices.



 



 



SEC. 71.00.  SCOPE AND DEFINITIONS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 170,068, Eff. 11/18/94.)



 



   Scope.  The provisions of this chapter apply when the provisions are
not in conflict with any paramount regulations by the state or nation.



 



   For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases are
defined and shall be construed as hereinafter set out, unless it shall be
apparent from the context that they have a different meaning:



 



   “Automobile-For-Hire” shall mean every automobile, other than
taxicabs, used for prearranged transportation of passengers over the streets
of this City and not over a defined route within the boundary limits of said
City at rates per mile, per trip, per hour, per day, per week or per month. 
Such vehicle shall not be equipped with a taximeter or facsimile thereof,
shall not display advertisements or possess a top light, is not required to
display a company logo or maintain a two-way radio and is not permitted to
solicit passengers from City streets, sidewalks or other public areas.



 



   “Board” shall mean the Board of Taxicab Commissioners of this City
exclusively with regard to all taxicab rules and regulations, and “Board”
shall mean the Board of Transportation Commissioners of this City exclusively
with regard to all other vehicle rules and regulations other than taxicab
matters.  (Amended by Ord. No. 172,023, Eff. 6/26/98.)



 



   “Department” shall mean the Department of Transportation of this
City.



 



   “Driver” shall mean every person who drives or is in actual
physical control of a vehicle defined in this section, either as an agent,
employee or otherwise.



 



   “Motor Bus” shall mean every automobile, jitney bus, stage and
autostage, and every other motor-propelled vehicle owned, controlled,
operated and managed for public use in the transportation of persons over any
public street in the City of Los Angeles, and into which passengers are
received and from which passengers are discharged along the route traversed
by such vehicle, provided that other vehicles defined herein shall not be
deemed included in said term.



 



   “Non-ambulatory Passenger Vehicle” shall mean every motor vehicle
specially constructed, modified, equipped, or arranged for the purpose of
transporting passengers in litters or wheelchairs on a non-emergency basis,
used for the purpose of serving the public, and driven by any person other
than a governmental agency, whether or not the transportation extends beyond
the City limits and whether or not any fee, compensation, or consideration is
charged, paid, or received for such transportation.



 



   “Non-motorized Vehicle” shall mean every vehicle for hire powered
by people or animal whether pulled, drawn, pushed or pedaled, and used for
the transportation of passengers over streets or ways of the City.  The
Board shall determine the suitability of streets and pickup zones to be
permitted for use, the hours of operation, insurance requirements and other
restrictions for non-motorized vehicle service.



 



   “Operator” shall mean any person or corporation who conducts or
manages a business using the vehicles defined in Section 71.00.



 



   “Private Ambulance” shall mean every vehicle equipped with a siren
and specially constructed, modified, equipped or arranged for the purpose of
transporting sick, injured, convalescent, infirm or otherwise incapacitated
persons, used for the purpose of serving the public, and driven by any person
other than governmental agency.



 



   “Public Transportation Vehicle” shall mean every automobile or
motor propelled vehicle, not otherwise defined in this section, used for the
transportation of passengers over streets of this City, whether or not the
transportation extends beyond the City and whether or not any fee,
compensation or consideration of any character is charged, paid or received
for such transportation.



 



   “School Bus” shall mean every motor vehicle used for the
transportation of pupils to or from any school or institution of learning, or
to or from school activities, over the streets of this City, irrespective of
whether such operations extend beyond the boundary limits of this City, and
regardless of whether or not any fee, compensation or consideration is paid
for such transportation, except the following vehicles:



 



   1.   A motor vehicle of the pleasure type carrying only members of
the household and the guests of the owner thereof;



 



   2.   A motor vehicle while being operated by or under contract with
the Board of Education.



 



   “Sightseeing Automobile” shall mean every automobile or motor
propelled vehicle used for the transportation of passengers over streets of
this City, irrespective of whether such operations extend beyond the boundary
limits of this City, for sightseeing purposes or showing points of interest
and charging a fee or compensation therefor, regardless of whether any fee,
compensation or consideration is paid to the driver of such sightseeing
automobile by the passenger or by the owner, or by the person who employs or
contracts with the driver, or charters such sightseeing automobile with a
driver to transport or convey any passenger, and irrespective of whether or
not such driver receives any fee or compensation for the services.



 



   “Taxicab” shall mean every automobile or motor propelled vehicle
which is designed to carry not more than eight persons, excluding the driver,
and either is equipped with a taximeter or a top light or has the words
“taxi”, “cab” or “taxicab” displayed on the exterior of the
vehicle, and used for the transportation of passengers for hire over the
streets of this City, irrespective of whether the operations extend beyond
the boundary limits of said City, at rates for distance traveled, or for
zones, or for waiting, standby or traffic delay time, or for any combination
of such rates, and not operating over a defined route but routed under the
direction of such passengers or persons hiring the same.



 



   “Taxicab Operator” shall mean a taxicab franchise grantee, and the
management and officers of those grantees.  (Amended by Ord. No. 174,058,
Eff. 8/9/01.)



 



   “Taximeter” shall mean a device that automatically calculates at
predetermined rate or rates, and indicates the charge for hire of a vehicle.



 



   “Zone” shall mean a place established by the Department and
designated as a zone for the use while waiting employment of any vehicle
defined in Section 71.00 or operated in passenger transportation service by
authority of the California Public Utilities Commission.



 



 



SEC. 71.01.  AUTHORITY OF BOARD TO ADOPT RULES.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 165,491, Eff. 3/19/90.)



 



   The Board shall have the power to adopt such rules and regulations as
may be necessary to implement the purposes of this article. Such rules and
regulations may include but are not limited to the following:  rules and
regulations pertaining to the service, safety and operation of the vehicles
defined in this article; rules and regulations prescribing limitations,
conditions and qualifications of applicants for vehicle permits, driver
permits, and ambulance attendant permits; rules and regulations relating to
hearings conducted pursuant to Section 71.09 of this article, and rules and
regulations specifying the monetary penalties and the procedures to collect
the penalties that may be levied against franchise, operating permit, vehicle
permit, driver permit and attendant permit grantees pursuant to Sections
71.02.2 and 71.09.2 of this article.



 



 



SEC. 71.01.1.  AUTHORITY OF DESIGNATED EMPLOYEES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF
TRANSPORTATION TO MAKE ARRESTS AND ISSUE CITATIONS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,901, Eff. 5/31/01.)



 



   (a)   The Taxicab Administrator and the Senior Transportation
Engineer assigned to franchise regulation functions shall have the power,
authority and immunity of a public officer or employee, as set forth in the
Penal Code of the State of California, Section 836.5, to make arrests without
a warrant whenever he or she has reasonable cause to believe that the person
to be arrested has committed a misdemeanor or an infraction in his or her
presence which is a violation of this article, or of any ordinance of the
City of Los Angeles or penal law of the State relating to such matters as
public transportation and parking control, and, in addition, all violations
set forth in Section 80.01.1.



 



   (b)   The Chief Transportation Investigators, Senior Transportation
Investigators and Transportation Investigators shall have the immunity,
authority and powers of arrest of a peace officer pursuant to the California
Penal Code Section 830.7(h) to enforce any law of this State or any ordinance
of this Code pertaining to matters under the jurisdiction of the Department
of Transportation.



 



   (c)   The above designated employees shall also be authorized to
issue citations for the various offenses under their jurisdiction and the
cited persons shall be subject to either administrative hearings and
penalties (for Board Order violations) or as provided for in the Penal Code
Sections 853.5 and/or 853.6. (for Infractions and Misdemeanors).



 



   (d)   Each of the above designated employees shall carry upon his or
her person a metallic badge, of a size and design to be determined as
provided in Sec 52.32 of this Code, while performing his or her respective
duties applicable to Chapters VII and VIII of the Municipal Code.



 



 



SEC. 71.01.2.  AUTHORITY OF DESIGNATED EMPLOYEES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF
TRANSPORTATION TO HAVE ACCESS TO SUMMARY CRIMINAL HISTORY INFORMATION.



   (Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 182,704, Eff. 10/15/13.)



 



   The following persons shall have the authority to obtain federal, state
and local summary criminal history information pursuant to the California
Penal Code, Section 11105(b)(11) and Section 13300(b)(11), in fulfilling
their duties applicable to Chapter VII and Chapter VIII of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code:  the Board of Transportation Commissioners, the Commission
Executive Assistant to the Board of Transportation Commissioners, the Board
of Taxicab Commissioners, the Commission Executive Assistant to the Board of
Taxicab Commissioners, the General Manager and the Assistant General Manager,
the Chief of Transit Programs, the Taxicab Administrator, the Senior
Transportation Engineer, the Transportation Engineer, the Senior Management
Analyst I, the Chief Transportation Investigator, the Senior Transportation
Investigators, and the Transportation Investigators assigned to or having
responsibility for permitting and licensing, and for parking control
functions within the Department of Transportation.



 



 



SEC. 71.02.  OPERATION OF VEHICLES – PERMITS OR FRANCHISES REQUIRED.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 174,058, Eff. 8/9/01.)



 



   (a)   No person or corporation shall drive, operate or use, whether
as owner, lessor, lessee or otherwise, any of the vehicles defined in Section
71.00 to pick up or attempt to pick up passengers within the limits of the
City of Los Angeles, or allow or permit to be operated, driven, or used,
whether as owner, lessor, lessee, or otherwise, any of the vehicles defined
in Section 71.00 to pick up or attempt to pick up passengers within the
limits of the City of Los Angeles unless a written vehicle permit for the
operation of such specifically defined vehicles has been obtained from the
Board; provided, however, that no vehicle permit shall be required for the
operation of any vehicle under and in accordance with the terms and
conditions of a franchise granted by the City of Los Angeles.



 



   (b)   No person or corporation or membership organization shall
drive or operate a taxicab without a franchise granted by the City of Los
Angeles.  The Board may grant a taxicab vehicle permit to grantee or a
member of grantee for each vehicle operated under a taxicab franchise.  No
taxicab shall be operated under a franchise unless the Board has issued such
a permit for each specific vehicle.  A taxicab operated under a franchise
may not continue in service if the taxicab vehicle permit is expired,
suspended, canceled or revoked. The Board may authorize the decaling of each
individual taxicab by the Department as approval for a taxicab vehicle permit.



 



   (c)   Every corporation, person, cooperative, or association who
operates a taxicab and who knowingly and willfully issues, publishes or
affixes, or causes or permits the issuance, publishing or affixing of any
oral or written advertisement, broadcast or holding out to the public or any
portion thereof, in any manner whatsoever, that the corporation or person is
in operation as a taxicab company or an individual taxicab without having a
valid vehicle permit and franchise granted by the City of Los Angeles is
guilty of a misdemeanor.



 



   (d)   In no event shall any person or corporation who drives or
operates a taxicab in the City of Los Angeles publish, advertise or broadcast
in any manner, written or oral, a telephone number either by itself or
connected to a rotary or call forwarding system for taxicab service, which is
the same telephone number as that for other vehicles for hire.



 



   (e)   No person or corporation shall knowingly dispatch a vehicle or
respond to a request for a “taxi”, “cab” or “taxicab” for pick-up
within the City of Los Angeles unless the responding vehicle is operated
pursuant to a franchise granted by the City of Los Angeles.



 



 



SEC. 71.02.1.  SUSPENSION OF TAXICAB FRANCHISE.



   (Title Amended by Ord. No. 174,058, Eff. 8/9/01.)



 



   (a)   (Amended by Ord. No. 174,058, Eff. 8/9/01.)  The Board may,
after due notice and an opportunity to be heard, suspend a taxicab franchise
or any portion thereof for one or more days, upon any of the following
grounds:



 



   (1)   Noncompliance with franchise terms and conditions as specified
therein; Board rules and orders as specified therein; Department directives;
or the State Vehicle Code.



 



   (2)   The holder of a majority interest in the Grantee or the
Grantee illegally conducts any type of public transportation operation
licensed by the City or any other governmental agency.  Such suspension may
be of one or more fleet vehicles throughout the City and/or suspension of the
right to pick up at certain taxicab stands and at Los Angeles International
Airport.



 



   (b)   Any suspension of 30 days or more or any suspension after an
aggregate of 30 days suspension in any 12-month period, is subject to appeal
to the City Council.



 



 



SEC. 71.02.2.  MONETARY PENALTIES FOR TAXICAB OPERATORS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 170,068, Eff. 11/18/94.)



 



   (a)   The Board may levy monetary penalties in addition to or in
lieu of suspension of franchise or operating permit pursuant to 71.02
above.  Monetary penalties may be levied on a per violation, a per day or an
accumulated penalty point basis and may escalate on a first, second, or third
violation basis.  Deficiencies in operations which endanger the public
health, welfare, and/or safety shall receive the maximum penalties.



 



   (b)   The Board shall adopt by resolution a schedule of monetary
penalties, a procedure for assessing monetary penalties or penalty points for
specific driver and/or operator violations, and an appeal procedure. 
Monetary penalties for taxicab operators shall be no more than $1,000 for
each penalty point over an established limit, or for each day, as
appropriate, up to a maximum of $25,000 in monetary penalties for penalty
points accumulated in a calendar quarter; except penalties assessed on a per
day basis for failure to correct operator deficiencies shall accumulate
without limit for each day that the violation exists.  Any single penalty
assessment that exceeds $30,000 is subject to appeal to the City Council.



 



   (c)   Payment of a monetary penalty or the serving of a suspension
shall constitute a waiver of the right to further appeal of any monetary
penalty or suspension to the City Council or Superior Court.



 



   (d)   Judicial review of an action by the Board levying such
monetary penalty or of an action of the City Council in denying an appeal, as
provided for herein, shall be available only if a petition for a writ of
mandate is filed in the Superior Court not later than the 90th day following
the date upon which the decision of the Board or City Council becomes final,
which shall be the expiration of the period during which reconsideration can
be sought, provided that if reconsideration is sought the decision is final
for the purposes of this section on the date that reconsideration is rejected.



 



   (e)   The total monetary penalty payment is due by the date
established by the Board or 30 days after the end of the month in which
payment has accrued, whichever comes first.  The payment is delinquent if
not paid on or before the due date.



 



   (f)   A penalty of 10% of the amount of the payment shall be
assessed on any payment which has become delinquent.  Failure to pay any
delinquent payment on or before the last day of the fourth month following
the date on which the payment first became delinquent will result in the
assessment of a second penalty of 10% of the amount of the payment in
addition to the amount of the payment and the 10% penalty first imposed.



 



   (g)   In addition to the penalties imposed above, failure to pay any
payment required by ordinance and by the franchise or operating permit will
result in the assessment of interest charges at the rate of 1-1/2% per month,
or fraction thereof, on the amount of the payment, exclusive of penalties,
from the date on which the payment first became delinquent until it is paid.



 



 



SEC. 71.02.3.  USE OF PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.



   (Added by Ord. No. 170,068, Eff. 11/18/94.)



 



   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person, corporation, association
or cooperative to operate, maintain, drive or park any vehicle, as defined in
Section 71.00, on any street, roadway, thoroughfare, highway or public
right-of-way within the boundaries of the City of Los Angeles without a
permit or business license granted or issued for the operation of the
specified vehicle by an authorized governmental entity in the State of
California.



 



   (b)   Violation of this section will subject the violator to
impoundment of the unlawful vehicle by the City of Los Angeles and is deemed
a misdemeanor.



 



   (c)   Whenever any peace officer, public officer or employee of the
City of Los Angeles arrests any person for violation of this section, the
officer or employee shall impound and retain possession of any vehicle used
in violation of this section until a court of competent jurisdiction or an
officer or employee of the City of Los Angeles shall release said vehicle.



 



 



SEC. 71.03.  DRIVING OF VEHICLES – PERMITS REQUIRED.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,901, Eff. 5/31/01.)



 



   (a)   No person shall drive a private ambulance as defined in
Section 71.00 without first having obtained an ambulance driver permit from
the Board.



 



   (b)   No person shall drive a non-ambulatory passenger vehicle as
defined in Section 71.00 without first having obtained a non-ambulatory
passenger vehicle driver permit from the Board.



 



   (c)   No person shall drive or operate a taxicab as defined in
Section 71.00 without first having obtained a taxicab driver permit from the
Board.



 



   (d)   No person shall drive or operate any other type of vehicle
defined in Section 71.00 without first having obtained a driver permit from
the Board.



 



 



SEC. 71.04.  AMBULANCE ATTENDANTS – PERMITS REQUIRED.



 



   No person shall act as an ambulance attendant in a private ambulance
unless such person holds an ambulance attendant permit or an ambulance driver
permit issued by the Board.  (Amended by Ord. No. 141,670, Eff. 5/7/71.)



 



 



SEC. 71.04.1.  NON-AMBULATORY PASSENGER VEHICLE ATTENDANTS – PERMITS
REQUIRED.



 



   No person shall act as a non-ambulatory passenger vehicle attendant in
a non-ambulatory passenger vehicle as defined in §71.00 unless such person
holds a non-ambulatory passenger vehicle attendant permit or an ambulance
attendant permit from the Board. (Added by Ord. No. 154,996, Eff. 4/26/81.)



 



 



SEC. 71.05.  APPLICATION AND ANNUAL OR MONTHLY FEE FOR VEHICLE PERMITS.



   (Title Amended by Ord. No. 165,491, Eff. 3/19/90.)



 



   (a)   Applicants for vehicle permits shall file with the department
an application upon forms provided by the department, containing such
information as is required by the rules and regulations of the Board.
(Amended by Ord. No. 149,526, Eff. 5/21/77.)



 



   (b)   Taxicab Operators and Taxicab Vehicle Permittees.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 177,843, Eff. 10/1/06.)



 



      (1)   Each new or replacement member of a franchised taxicab
operator who makes application for membership as a taxicab vehicle permittee
shall submit with an application a nonrefundable processing fee, in the
amount specified in Section 71.06.1.



 



   (2)   Each franchised taxicab operator shall pay an annual taxicab
vehicle permit fee, in the amount specified in Section 71.06.1, for each
vehicle fleet position slot used during the calendar year.



 



   (3)   The monthly franchise base fee for each authorized taxicab
fleet position shall be $128.00 multiplied by a meter rate adjustment factor
(MRAF).  The MRAF shall be determined by the Board and shall be the ratio of
the cost of a five paid-mile trip at the level of rates that may be approved
by Board Order from time to time to the cost of a five paid-mile trip at the
meter rates in effect at the effective date of this ordinance.



 



   (4)   The total monthly franchise fee for each authorized taxicab
fleet position shall be the base fee multiplied by the Service Factor.



 



   (5)   Upon the effective date of this ordinance, the Service Factor
shall be fifty percent until modified by the Board.



 



   (6)   The total monthly franchise fee payment is due 30 days after
the end of the month in which payment has accrued.  The payment is
delinquent if not paid on or before the due date.



 



   (7)   A penalty of ten percent of the amount of the payment shall be
assessed on any payment that has become delinquent.  Failure to pay any
delinquent payment on or before the last day of the fourth month following
the date on which the payment first became delinquent will result in the
assessment of a second penalty of ten percent of the amount of the payment in
addition to the amount of the payment and the ten percent penalty first
imposed.



 



   (8)   In addition to the penalties imposed above, failure to pay any
payment required by ordinance and by the franchise will result in the
assessment of interest charges at the rate of one and one-half percent per
month, or fraction of a month, on the amount of the payment, exclusive of
penalties, from the date on which the payment first became delinquent until
it is paid.



 



   (9)   The amount of any monthly franchise fee in excess of the
monthly fee that is calculated using a Service Factor of fifty percent shall
not be allowed as a permit fee expense for the rate making purposes.



 



   (10)   Each franchised taxicab operator shall pay a monthly taxicab
vehicle bandit enforcement fee, in the amount specified in Section 71.06.1,
for each taxicab in service (provided a City Seal by the City) during any
part of the billing month.  This assessment shall be collected only if a
portion of the taximeter activation "flag drop" charge, or other funding
mechanism, has been established and approved for bandit enforcement by the
Board of Taxicab Commissioners.  Revenue generated from the collection of
taxicab vehicle bandit enforcement fees shall be placed into a separately
designated account in the Transportation Regulation and Enforcement Trust
Fund, and shall be used for the establishment and maintenance of a unit of
police officers dedicated to enforcing the City's laws prohibiting the
operation of illegal taxicabs and vehicles for hire.  Revenue collected in
excess of the funding level contractually agreed to or stipulated by the
Department for these police officer enforcement efforts shall be retained and
used by the Department exclusively for bandit taxicab enforcement purposes.



 



   (c)   (Amended by Ord. No. 180,541, Eff. 3/28/09.) Each application
for a new, or renewal vehicle permit, other than a taxicab, shall be
accompanied by a non-refundable filing fee in the amount specified in Section
71.06.1 for each vehicle covered by the application.



 



   If the application is for a permit to operate a vehicle, other than a
taxicab that is inspected at least annually by another governmental agency,
then the non-refundable Vehicle Permit processing fee for such vehicle shall
be reduced by $25.00.



 



   If the application is for a permit to use a vehicle, other than a
taxicab or non-motorized vehicle, for a period not exceeding 30 days, as a
substitute for a vehicle for which a permit is in full force and effect, no
processing fee shall be required.  If the application is for a temporary
permit in excess of 30 days, it shall be accompanied by a non-refundable
processing fee of $50.00 for each vehicle covered by such application. 
Temporary permits, other than for taxicabs or non-motorized vehicles, will
not be issued for a period in excess of 60 days.



 



   (d)   Any money due to the Department of Transportation by any
applicant for a vehicle permit, including money owed for outstanding parking
tickets or other fines assessed by the Department, must first be paid, or the
matter otherwise resolved to the satisfaction of the Department, prior to the
issuance of such permit.  (Amended by Ord. No. 166,534, Eff. 1/31/91.)



 



 



SEC. 71.06.  APPLICATION FOR DRIVER AND AMBULANCE ATTENDANT PERMITS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,901, Eff. 5/31/01.)



 



   Every applicant for a driver permit or an attendant permit shall file
with the Department an application upon a form furnished by the Department,
containing such information as is required by the rules and regulations of
the Board.  Any money due the Department of Transportation by any 
applicant for a driver or attendant permit including money owed for
outstanding parking tickets or other fines assessed by the Department, must
be paid, or the matter otherwise resolved to the satisfaction of the
Department, prior to the issuance of such permit.  Every application for a
driver permit or an attendant permit shall be accompanied by a non refundable
processing fee in the amount specified in Section 71.06.1 or Section 71.06.2.



 



   Each applicant for a taxicab driver permit must also be issued an
identification badge and shall pay a non refundable processing fee in the
amount specified in Section 71.06.1.



 



   Every application for a driver permit for a non-motorized vehicle shall
be accompanied by a non refundable processing fee in the amount specified in
Section 71.06.1.



 



   The Board may require an applicant to furnish via live-scan capture or
on forms prescribed by the Board, the fingerprints of the applicant.  A non
refundable fingerprint processing fee in the amount specified in Section
71.06.1, which is in addition to the application processing fee, shall
accompany the application for which fingerprint processing is required.



 



   Upon approval of the application, the Department shall issue to the
permittee a conditional permit in the form prescribed by the Board, pending
receipt of applicant’s criminal history record.  If such record proves to
be satisfactory to the Department, the permit issued shall no longer be
considered conditional.



 



   Notwithstanding Sections 71.07, 71.08 and 71.09 hereof, falsification
of an application for driver permit shall be grounds for immediate
cancellation of a permit and/or denial of an application for a permit by the
Department.



 



 



SEC. 71.06.1.  APPLICATION PROCESSING AND OTHER FEES.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 183,255, Eff. 11/30/14.)



 



   The Department shall collect the following fees for processing the
indicated permit applications or providing the indicated items:



 



 



(a)
 

Taxicab Vehicle Permit   

 

$81.00



(b)
 

Initial and Renewal Private Ambulance Vehicle Permit   

 

645.00



(c)
 

Initial and Renewal Non-ambulatory Passenger Vehicle Permit   

 

567.00



(d)
 

Initial and Renewal Public Transportation Vehicle Permit   

 

526.00



(e)
 

Initial and Renewal Automobile for Hire Vehicle Permit   

 

250.00



(f)
 

Initial and Renewal Motor Bus Vehicle Permit   

 

314.00



(g)
 

Initial and Renewal Non-motorized Passenger Vehicle Permit   

 

196.00



(h)
 

Initial Driver or Attendant Permit   

 

106.00



(i)
 

Renewal Driver or Attendant Permit   

 

146.00



(j)
 

Initial Non-motorized Driver Permit   

 

47.00



(k)
 

Renewal Non-motorized Driver Permit   

 

47.00



(l)
 

Taxicab Vehicle Decal (for each decal set)   

 

45.00



(m)
 

Vehicle Decal (for other than taxicabs)   

 

45.00



(n)
 

Taxicab Driver Identification Badge   

 

5.00



(o)
 

Replacement of existing Driver or Attendant Permit (for lost permit, name
change or change of company)   

 

52.00



(p)
 

Fingerprint Processing   

 

88.00



(q)
 

Outside Agency Service Fees   

 

As Required



(r)
 

Taxicab Rule Book   

 

3.00



(s)
 
Taxicab Membership Application   
 

277.00



(t)
 

Monthly Taxicab Vehicle Bandit Enforcement Fee (per sealed taxicab)   

 

30.00





 



 



SEC. 71.06.2.  FEES FOR SERVICES PROVIDED OUTSIDE OF NORMAL WORKING HOURS.



   (Re-added by Ord. No. 171,247, Eff. 9/27/96.)



 



   Upon request to the Department of Transportation with respect to
matters involving the regulation of vehicles defined in Section 71.00, the
Department may assign staff to provide services outside of normal working
hours, subject to payment to the City of its costs as hereinafter provided:



 



   (a)   Each such request must be received by the Department no less
than one week prior to the time for which services are requested.



 



   (b)   In each such instance the Department of Transportation shall
charge and collect the total costs of Departmental work, services, and
materials provided outside of normal working hours.



 



   (c)   Prior to the Department proceeding pursuant to any such
request, the applicant requesting services outside of normal working hours
shall deposit with the City that sum estimated by the Department to be
sufficient to pay the City for all City costs with respect thereto.



 



   (d)   The deposit may vary in amount from time to time depending
upon the scope of the costs and expenses reasonably anticipated as necessary
to provide the work, services, and materials to be used for the services
requested, provided that the estimated sum required to be deposited shall be
based upon and not be inconsistent with the actual costs of similar work done
by, and materials used by, the Department in the regular course of its duties.



 



   (e)   The Department shall estimate the amount of the deposit in
conformity with a schedule adopted by the General Manager on a semiannual or
less frequent basis which sets forth and applies then current salary
schedules and verifiable time and materials costs of the City with respect to
those types of Departmental activities.  The schedule shall be kept on file
by the Department and be available to any applicant depositor at the time an
application is made or as otherwise requested.



 



   (f)   Money received as a deposit from an applicant shall be
deposited into the Department of Transportation Trust Fund and shall be
transferred to the General Fund to first reimburse the Departmental costs
incurred in providing services and materials referred to in Subsection (b)
above for the applicant-depositor.



 



   (g)   As a condition to the Department proceedings set forth above,
any deposit accepted pursuant to this section shall be adjusted at the
completion of the services requested to conform to actual costs as follows:



 



   1.   In the event actual costs incurred by the City are less than
the deposit received by the City, the applicant shall be entitled to
reimbursement of the excess from the deposit; and



 



   2.   In the event the costs exceed the sum on deposit, all such
additional costs shall be paid by the applicant-depositor to the City upon
demand.



 



 



SEC. 71.06.3.  REVIEW OF FEES FOR SERVICE.



   (Added by Ord. No. 180,541, Eff. 3/28/09.)



 



   The Department of Transportation shall provide an annual review of the
vehicle and driver permitting fees designated in Section 71.06.1, subsections
(a) through (s), and shall submit recommendations for changes in these fees
for special services to the Council, as follows:



 



   (a)   By May 1st of each odd numbered year, the Department shall
provide a comprehensive study of fees for services, and shall provide a
report and proposed draft ordinance to the Mayor and the City Council
detailing any requested changes in the fees for special services for any
particular item listed in Section 71.06.1.  The comprehensive study shall
include:  1) measurement of the average salary increase in effect for all
vehicle-for-hire staff members from the previous calendar year; 2)
measurement of changes in material, equipment and contract costs related to
any and all fee-for-service items; 3) adjustment of any changes required in
the amount of personnel time necessary to complete any fee-for-service
activity; and 4) current indirect costs for labor provided by the City's Cost
Allocation Plan.  Cost figures shall be compared to the current baseline
established for each fee.  Recommended fee changes shall be rounded to the
nearest whole dollar.  The recommended fee changes shall be requested to
take effect beginning July 1st of the reporting year.



 



   (b)   By May 1st of each even numbered year, the Department shall
provide a proposal for adjustment of fees for services, and shall provide a
report and proposed draft ordinance to the Mayor and the City Council
detailing any requested changes in the fees for service for any particular
item listed in Section 71.06.1.  The adjustment shall include a measurement
of the average salary increase in effect for all vehicle-for-hire staff
members from the previous calendar year.  Current indirect costs for labor
derived from the City's Cost Allocation Plan also shall be included as part
of the adjustment and assessment report.  Cost figures shall be compared to
the current baseline established for each fee.  Recommended fee changes
shall be rounded to the nearest whole dollar.  The recommended fee changes
shall be requested to take effect beginning July 1st of the reporting year.



 



 



SEC. 71.07.  THE BOARD’S POWER TO REVOKE OR SUSPEND DRIVER, ATTENDANT, OR
VEHICLE PERMITS.



   (Section and Title Amended by Ord. No. 165,491, Eff. 3/19/90.)



 



   The Board shall have the power after public hearing to deny, revoke,
suspend or cancel any driver, attendant, or vehicle permit for which this
article makes provision. The exercise of such power, except in an emergency
situation involving public health and safety, shall be subject to the
affected permittee having been given adequate notice of the hearing, the
proposed action, the reasons thereof, a copy of the charges upon which the
action is based, and the permittee shall have the right to respond, either
orally or in writing.



 



 



SEC. 71.08.  GROUNDS FOR DENIAL, REVOCATION, SUSPENSION OR CANCELLATION OF
PERMIT.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 150,456, Eff. 12/30/77.)



 



   The following shall constitute grounds for denial, revocation,
suspension or cancellation of any driver, attendant, or vehicle permit for
which this article makes provision:  (First para. amended by Ord. No.
165,491, Eff. 3/19/90.)



 



   (a)   Arrest for the commission of any crime while driving a vehicle
defined in Section 71.00 or any crime involving moral turpitude;



 



   (b)   Violation of any rule or regulation of the Board, any section
of the Los Angeles Municipal Code, Los Angeles Administrative Code and other
ordinances of the City, any rule or regulation of the Department of Airports,
and any section of a State Statute or Administrative Code, relating to the
operation of a vehicle defined in Sec. 71.00 and for which a permit is
required under this article.



 



 



SEC. 71.09.  PROCEDURES FOR DENIAL, REVOCATION, SUSPENSION OR CANCELLATION
OF PERMITS BY THE GENERAL MANAGER OR HIS AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 150,456, Eff. 12/30/77.)



 



   (a)   Immediate suspension:  The General Manager of the Department
or his authorized representative may immediately suspend a permit when it is
determined that an emergency involving public health or safety requires such
suspension. Permittee shall be given notice of such suspension in writing
delivered to the permittee either in person or by registered letter.



 



   (b)   Temporary suspension:  The General Manager of the Department
or his authorized representative may temporarily suspend any permit. Such
temporary suspension shall be after the permittee has been given notice to
appear before the General Manager or his authorized representative for a
hearing on the charges. Such notice shall include the basis for the proposed
charges. The permittee shall have the right to respond either orally or in
writing. If after hearing it is determined that cause for suspension exists
the permittee may accept the suspension of the permit or fill out a
prescribed form requesting a hearing before the Board. The Board shall
consider such request and the grounds therefor and shall take appropriate
actions thereon subject to the provisions of Section 71.07.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 165,491, Eff. 3/19/90.)



 



   (c)   Permanent suspension, revocation or cancellation:  Whenever
investigation determines that cause for permanent suspension, revocation or
cancellation of a permit exists, the permittee shall be given notice to
appear before the Board for a hearing.  (Amended by Ord. No. 165,491, Eff.
3/19/90.)



 



   (d)   Waiver of hearing:  Failure of permittee to respond to a
notice to appear for a hearing before the General Manager of the Department
or his authorized representative or before the Board is a waiver of the right
to a hearing and action may be taken without permittee being present.



 



   (e)   (Added by Ord. No. 165,491, Eff. 3/19/90.)  The General
Manager of the Department or his authorized representative, or any officer of
the Los Angeles Police Department, may take possession of any badge, card,
permit, license or vehicle decal issued under the provisions of this chapter,
upon expiration, revocation, cancellation or suspension thereof, or which is
fictitious or which has been unlawfully or erroneously issued. Any decal, or
other taxicab or vehicle identification as approved by the Board, which is
not attached to the vehicle for which it was issued may be seized.



 



   Any such document or decal seized shall be delivered to the Department.



 



 



SEC. 71.09.1.  REHEARING.



 



   Upon receipt of a written request from a person whose permit has been
denied, suspended revoked or cancelled stating the grounds for protesting
such action, the Board shall consider the basis of the request and may set
the matter for rehearing, notify the applicant and take appropriate action. 
(Added by Ord. No. 150,456, Eff. 12/30/77.)



 



 



SEC. 71.09.2.  MONETARY PENALTIES FOR DRIVER, VEHICLE AND ATTENDANT
PERMITTEES.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,901, Eff. 5/31/01.)



 



   (a)   Monetary penalties may be levied against an individual permit
holder in lieu of or in addition to suspension, revocation or cancellation of
permits as described in Sec. 71.09.  Monetary penalties may be levied on a
per violation or a per day basis and may escalate on a first, second, or
third violation basis.  Violations which endanger the public health,
welfare, and/or safety shall receive the maximum penalties.



 



   (b)   The Board shall adopt by resolution a schedule of monetary
penalties for specific violations.  (Amended by Ord. No. 177,715, Eff.
9/4/06.)



 



   (c)   The monetary penalties established by the Board in (b) above
may be assessed and collected by the General Manager of the Department or
authorized representative.



 



   (d)   The Board may adopt a hearing examiner procedure in accordance
with Div. 19, Ch. 3, Art. 1 of the Los Angeles Administrative Code.



 



   (e)   Payment of a monetary penalty or the serving of a suspension
shall constitute a waiver of the right to further appeal of any monetary
penalty or suspension to the Board.



 



   (f)   The provisions of Section 71.02.2 (f) are applicable herein.



 



   (g)   The total monetary penalty payment is due by the date
established by the Board or 30 days after the end of the month in which
payment has accrued, whichever comes first.  The payment  is delinquent if
not paid on or before the due date.



 



   (h)   A penalty of 10% or as otherwise established by the Board  of
the amount of the payment shall be assessed on any payment which has become
delinquent.  Failure to pay any delinquent payment on or before the last day
of the fourth month following the date on which the payment first became
delinquent will result in the assessment of a second penalty of 10% of the
amount of the payment in addition to the amount of the payment and the 10%
penalty first imposed.



 



   (i)   In addition to the penalties imposed above, failure to pay any
payment required by ordinance and by the franchise or operating permit will
result in the assessment of interest charges at the rate of 1-1/2% per month,
or fraction thereof, on the amount of the payment, exclusive of penalties,
from the date on which the payment first became delinquent until it is paid.



 



 



SEC. 71.10.  REGULATIONS DURING SUSPENSION PERIOD.



 



   From the time of the revocation or during the suspension of any permit,
no person whose permit is suspended or revoked shall drive, operate or be in
charge of any of the vehicles defined in Section 71.00, or permit the
vehicles on which the permit has been suspended or revoked to engage in the
several classes of business mentioned in Section 71.00 or allow any such
vehicle to stand while awaiting employment at a location designated in such
suspended or revoked permit until a new permit has been procured or until the
period of suspension shall have expired.



 



 



SEC. 71.11.  DURATION AND RENEWAL OF PERMITS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 145,593, Eff. 3/28/74.)



 



   Permits issued under the provisions of this article shall be for the
following durations:



 



   (a)   Vehicle permit shall be issued initially for a period not to
exceed one year and renewals thereof shall be for maximum one year periods
thereafter.  (Amended by Ord. No. 157,741, Eff. 7/9/83.)



 



   (b)   (Amended by Ord. No. 165,491, Eff. 3/19/90.)  Driver permits
and attendant permits shall be issued initially for a period not to exceed
one year and renewals shall be for two-year periods thereafter.



 



   Vehicle, driver and attendant permits shall expire upon such date or
dates as may be fixed by the Department.



 



 



SEC. 71.12.  REQUIREMENTS OF PUBLIC CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 161,493, Eff. 8/11/86.)



 



   (a)   The applicant shall have the burden of proof to establish by
clear and convincing evidence that public convenience and necessity requires
the operation of the vehicle for which the permit application was made.



 



   No vehicle permit for the operation of any vehicle defined in Section
71.00 shall be granted until the Board, after a public hearing, conducted in
accordance with rules and regulations prescribed by the Board, determines
that the applicant has presented the necessary evidence to justify the
issuance of such vehicle permit.



 



   Evidence of public convenience and necessity shall not be necessary for
the granting of the same number of permits held by the applicant under the
same name and color scheme on the date prescribed by the Department for the
expiration of permits, and said permits shall be classed as renewals and
shall be granted automatically on the filing of an application unless
applicant violates other provisions of this article. In addition, evidence of
public convenience and necessity shall not be necessary for granting of
vehicle permits for vehicles operated pursuant to any government grant
program provided, however, that such vehicles are dedicated to such program
use.



 



   Such authority shall not be used in support of an application for
authority to operate any other type of service and such authority shall cease
whenever the government grant program is terminated.



 



   (b)   No franchise for the operation of any vehicle defined in
Section 71.00 shall be granted except pursuant to and in accordance with the
provisions of Article 2 through Article 13 inclusive of Chapter 1, Division
13 of the Los Angeles Administrative Code, which prescribes the procedure for
the granting of franchises, and the Board shall consider public convenience
and necessity prior to making its recommendation to Council on any
application for such franchise.



 



 



SEC. 71.13.  SPECIFIC FINDINGS REQUIRED.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 161,493, Eff. 8/11/86.)



 



   The Board, in determining whether or not public convenience and
necessity exists, may take into consideration all facts as it may deem
pertinent and proper which include, but are not limited to,  consideration
of the following:



 



   (a)   Evidence presented by the applicant to the Board in support of
applicant’s financial capability, e.g., financial statements: current and
pro forma profit and loss statements and current balance sheet.



 



   (b)   Evidence that the persons holding permits for the operation of
particular vehicles are or are not, under efficient management, earning a
fair and reasonable return on their capital devoted to such service.



 



   (c)   Evidence from the applicant that the persons holding permits
for the operation of the type of vehicle for which the application is being
made are or are not, under normal conditions, adequately serving the public.



 



   (d)   Testimony (written and/or verbal) and statistical data daily
trip volume, trips referred, delays in response time, etc.) presented in
support of application.



 



   (e)   Results of a Department investigation of users and suppliers
of the service in the area indicating whether existing services are meeting
the need or demand. Applicants for additional vehicles must be providing the
minimum acceptable quality of service as established by the Board.



 



 



SEC. 71.14.  INSURANCE OR BOND REQUIRED.



 



   (a)   (Amended by Ord. No. 170,068, Eff. 11/18/94.)  Before any
vehicle permit or franchise is issued for any vehicle mentioned in Section
71.00, the operator of the vehicle shall file with the Department, and 
shall thereafter keep in full force and effect a policy of insurance in such
form and amounts as the  Board in consultation with the City Administrative
Officer’s Risk Management Section may from time to time require but not
less than the appropriate sums specified in the following table.  Such
insurance shall be written by an insurance company authorized to do business
in the State of California, insuring the operator against liability for any
loss or damage that may result to any persons or property from the operation
of such vehicle:







 


Seating Capacity of Vehicle

 

For Bodily Injury to or Death of One Person

 

For Bodily Injury to or Death of More Than One Person in Any One Accident

 

For Loss or Damage to Property in Any One Accident



1-7 passengers
 

$100,000

 

$300,000

 

$50,000



8-12 passengers
 

100,000

 

350,000

 

100,000



13-20 passengers
 

100,000

 

450,000

 

100,000



21-30 passengers
 

100,000

 

500,000

 

100,000



Over 30 passengers
 

100,000

 

600,000

 

100,000




 



   EXCEPTION:



 



   Operators of non-motorized vehicles shall maintain a policy of
insurance for public liability and property damage in amounts to be
determined by the Board.



 



   Such operator may, in lieu of the aforesaid policy of insurance, file
with the Department a bond in such form as the Department may require,
approved by the City Attorney, executed by a corporate surety authorized to
conduct business under the laws of the State of California as a surety in a
sufficient amount which bond shall be conditioned upon the payment of all
final judgments which may be rendered against such operator for damages on
account of injuries to any person or property from the operation of such
vehicle, and which bond shall be in the amount specified in the following
table, according to the size and number of motor vehicles permitted or
franchised.







 


Number of Vehicles Owned or Offered For Hire

 

Amount of Bond as to Vehicles Having a Seating Capacity of Less than 11
Passengers

 

Amount of Bond as to Vehicles Having a Seating Capacity of More than 10
Passengers



1
 

$220,000.00

 

$440,000.00



2-5
 

300,000.00

 

600,000.00



6-20
 

400,000.00

 

800,000.00



21-60
 

500,000.00

 

1,000,000.00



61-100
 

600,000.00

 

1,200,000.00



Over 100
 

700,000.00

 

1,400,000.00




 



   (b)   In the event of the return unsatisfied of any execution issued
on any judgment rendered against such operator for damages on amount of
injury to person or property occasioned by such motor vehicle, such operator
shall, within ten days after the return of such execution unsatisfied, pay
such judgment or increase the amount of his bond by the amount thereof, and
failing to do so, he shall forthwith cease his operations until such judgment
is paid or such bond is so increased.  (Amended by Ord. No. 165,491, Eff.
3/19/90.)



 



   (c)   All policies or bonds shall contain a provision for continuing
liability thereunder up to the full amount thereof notwithstanding any
recovery thereon.



 



   (d)   If an operator has net assets of at least $500,000.00, he/she
may file with the Department a current balance sheet certified by a certified
public accountant, and if such balance sheet be approved by the Board, and if
the Board shall find that such person has net assets of at least $500,000.00,
as aforesaid, and has stipulated in writing to meet all other conditions
prescribed by the Board, after Board’s consideration of recommendations of
the City’s Risk Manager, as required for self-insurance, then no policy of
liability insurance or bond need be filed by such operator; subject, however,
to the provisions of Subsection (e) of this section.  (Amended by Ord. No.
165,491, Eff. 3/19/90.)



 



   (e)   Any operator electing to file a balance sheet in lieu of a
policy of liability insurance or bond as hereinabove provided shall
thereafter file with the Department, at such period or periods as may be
prescribed by the Board from time to time, but not less than annually,
current balance sheets certified to by a certified public accountant. The
Board may at any time make a further investigation of the net assets of any
such person, and whenever the Board find that such person does not appear to
have net assets of at least $500,000, as aforesaid, or has not complied with
other provisions required as conditions of self-insurance, the Board may
revoke the authority of such person to file balance sheets in lieu of a
policy of liability insurance or bond, as aforesaid, and shall require such
person immediately to file with the City a policy of liability insurance or
bond as hereinabove required.  (Amended by Ord. No. 165,491, Eff. 3/19/90.)



 



   (f)   No person shall operate any vehicle described in Section 71.00
unless there is a policy or bond on file in full force and effect as provided
by this section or there is a current balance sheet on file with the
Department approved by the Board as aforesaid, and such person is in
compliance with all other Board requirements for self-insurance.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 162,615, Eff. 8/16/87.)



 



   (g)   Any operator may file with the Department such combination of
policy of insurance and bond as will afford the public protection at least
equivalent to the insurance specified above with respect to the payment of
judgments obtained against said operator. Such filing shall be subject to
approval by the City Attorney.  (Amended by Ord. No. 165,491, Eff. 3/19/90.)



 



 



SEC. 71.15.  CONTRACTS BETWEEN OWNERS AND EMPLOYEES.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 165,491, Eff. 3/19/90.)



 



   Vehicles described in Section 71.00 for which a permit or franchise has
been granted shall be driven by the grantee thereof or by an employee of the
grantee. No grantee or driver of such vehicle shall enter into any contract,
agreement or understanding between themselves by the terms of which such
driver pays to, or for the account of, such grantee a fixed or determinable
sum for the use of such vehicle. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of
this section, however, any motor bus or taxicab as described in Section 71.00
for which a permit or franchise has been granted may be driven pursuant to a
contract, agreement, or understanding between the grantee and the driver
provided the grantee secures the prior authorization of the Board regarding
the extent thereof and in the granting of such permission, if the Board does
grant such permission, the Board is empowered to impose such conditions as it
deems necessary. The Board is further empowered to impose any such conditions
as it deems necessary as to any authorizations heretofore given by the Board
permitting such leasing or contracting.



 



 



SEC. 71.16.  TAXICAB IDENTIFICATION.



 



   (a)   No taxicab shall be operated by any person without a
distinctive and uniform color scheme or identification which designates the
operator of said vehicle and which has been approved by the Department. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 149,526, Eff. 5/21/77.)



 



   (b)   No color scheme, name, monogram, or identification shall be
in  conflict with or imitate any color scheme, monogram, or name of 
identification used by another taxicab grantee in such a manner as to  be
misleading or to tend to confuse or defraud the public.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 165,491, Eff. 3/19/90.)



 



   (c)   Each taxicab operated under a franchise shall be identified as
a City of Los Angeles authorized taxicab by decals or other suitable means as
adopted by the Board.  Identifying decals shall be provided by the Board for
such purpose upon payment of the Taxicab Vehicle Decal fee specified in
Section 71.06.1.  No person shall identify any vehicle by means of such
decal, or any facsimile thereof, unless authorized to do so by the
regulations of the Board.  (Amended by Ord. No. 174,058, Eff. 8/9/01.) 



 



   (d)   No person shall identify any vehicle by means of a City of Los
Angeles decal or facsimile thereof unless authorized to do so by the Board. 
(Added by Ord. No. 175,004, Eff. 1/26/03.)



 



 



SEC. 71.16.1.  VEHICLE IDENTIFICATION.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,901, Eff. 5/31/01.)



 



   (a)   Each vehicle, other than taxicabs, operated pursuant to a
permit issued under the provisions of this Article shall be identified as
such by decals or other suitable means as adopted by the Board.  Such
identification shall be displayed as specified by the Board.  Identifying
decals shall be provided by the Board for such purpose upon payment of the
Vehicle Decal fee specified in Section 71.06.1.  No person shall identify
any vehicle by means of such decal, or any facsimile thereof, unless
authorized to do so by the regulations of the Board.



 



   (b)   Every motor vehicle other than taxicabs or autos for hire used
and defined herein to carry passengers for hire, shall have displayed on both
sides of each vehicle the name or trademark of the person under whose
authority the vehicle is being operated or the name of the lessor or lessee
thereof.  The display of the name or trademark shall be permanently marked
in letters in sharp contrast to the background and shall be of such size,
shape, or color as to be readily legible during daylight hours from a
distance of 50 feet.  This section does not prohibit additional displays
approved by the Board not inconsistent with this section.



 



 



SEC. 71.17.  LICENSES.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,301, Eff. 6/30/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)



 



   Each permit issued under the provisions of this article shall entitle
the holder thereof to obtain a license to engage in the business described in
said permit from the Office of Finance upon the payment of the license fee,
and the Office of Financeshall issue to the holder, a license setting forth
the kind of transportation for which such license is issued and the year when
issued.



 



 



SEC. 71.18.  PERMITTED VEHICLE ZONES.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,901, Eff. 5/31/01.)



 



   (a)   The Department may establish zones to be used for the parking
of vehicles defined in Section 71.00, or operated in passenger transportation
service by authority of the California Public Utilities Commission, while
awaiting employment.



 



   (b)   Any zone so designated shall be occupied only by the permittee
or permittees so authorized where such zone has been established in
accordance with the provisions herein contained, and shall be occupied only
during such hours of the day as may be specified by said Department.



 



   (c)   All existing and future taxicab zones established in the City
shall be open to use by all taxicab operators franchised by the City to
operate in the service area of said zone.  The Department  shall make such
conditions as it finds necessary to regulate such joint use of taxicab
zones.  The Board may, after public hearing, determine that public interest
requires that one or more taxicab operators be restricted or prohibited from
the use of any specified zone.



 



 



SEC. 71.19.  VEHICLE SIGNS.



 



   (a)   Automobiles for hire while standing upon any street awaiting
employment may display a sign with the words thereon “For Hire”. Such
sign shall be of metal and of a uniform size of 6 by 9 inches.



 



   (b)   Every vehicle used for carrying passengers for sightseeing
purposes while standing upon any street awaiting employment may display a
sign with the words thereon “Sightseeing Bus” giving the route, points
visited or destination. Sightseeing bus signs shall be of metal of a uniform
size of 8  by 24 inches.



 



   (c)   The outer surface of all signs specified in this paragraph
shall be painted or enamelled a dark color and the letters and figures
appearing thereon shall be white.



 



 



SEC. 71.20.  TAXICAB SIGNS.



 



   (a)   Every taxicab shall display in both the front seat and the
rear seat, in full view of passengers in either of said seats, in letters and
figures which are clearly legible and not less than one-quarter inches high
the rates to be charged. The rate display shall either be of a permanent
character or be protected by glass or other suitable transparent material and
shall have printed thereon the name under which the owner of said taxicab
operates and the business address and telephone number of such owner.



 



   (b)   Every taxicab shall have lettered upon the sides of said
taxicab the name under which the owner thereof operates together with the
telephone number and the cab number of such owner. The number of the cab
shall also be displayed in such a manner that it is plainly visible from the
rear. All of the lettering mentioned in this subsection shall be of not less
than 2 inches in height and not less than 5/16-inch stroke.



 



   (c)   Every taxicab may display an electrically lighted
identification or vacant sign or combination of both attached to the top of
such cab. Every such sign shall not be more than 34 inches in length, 10
inches in height, or 10 inches in width.



 



 



SEC. 71.21.  OTHER SIGNS – PERMIT REQUIRED.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 165,491, Eff. 3/19/90.)



 



   No person shall display any sign other than those provided in Sections
71.19 and 71.20 without first obtaining the written permission of the Board
to do so.



 



 



SEC. 71.22.  TAXIMETERS.



 



   (a)   No owner operating any taxicab shall operate such vehicle
unless it is equipped with a taximeter of such type and design as has been
accepted by the Department of Agriculture. Every owner using any taximeter
shall at all times keep such meter accurate as established by order as
adopted by the California Department of Agriculture.



 



   (b)   Any inspector of the Department of Transportation or peace
officer is authorized to remove any vehicle equipped with an inaccurate
taximeter from the streets until said taximeter shall have been correctly
adjusted. (Amended by Ord. No. 151,833, Eff. 2/10/79, Oper. 2/25/79.)



 



   (c)   Except as hereinafter otherwise provided all taxicabs shall
base their charges on taximeters at rates established by the Board and all
taximeters shall be placed so that the reading dial showing the amount to be
charged shall be well lighted and readily discernible by the passenger riding
in such taxicab.



 



   (d)   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,301, Eff. 6/30/00, Oper. 7/1/00.) The
Board, in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Los Angeles
Administrative Code, may, by resolution, establish flat or mileage rates to
be charged to points beyond taxicab service areas, said rates to be charged
in addition to or in lieu of the amount shown on such taximeter.



 



   (e)   If rates are so established by the Board, the per-mile charge
shall be conspicuously posted in each taxicab, and shall be charged when
applicable. Payment of a zone rate, when applicable, shall entitle such
passenger to be transported to any location within such zone.



 



   (f)   No operator of any taxicab, upon receiving payment of a fare
as indicated by the taximeter thereon, or as determined by a zone rate
established by the Board shall refuse to give a receipt upon the request of
any passenger making said payment.



 



 



SEC. 71.23.  CIRCUITOUS ROUTES.



 



   Any driver employed to carry passengers to a definite point shall take
the most direct route practicable that will carry the passengers safely and
expeditiously to their destination.



 



 



SEC. 71.24.  EXCESS CHARGES.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 165,491, Eff. 3/19/90.)



 



   No person shall charge, collect, demand, receive or arrange for any
compensation for the service of any vehicle defined in Section 71.00 in this
City used for the conveyance of passengers, any amount, rate, or compensation
different than the charges or rates established by the Board.



 



 



SEC. 71.25.  AUTHORITY OF BOARD TO ESTABLISH RATES.



 



   (a)   The Board shall have the authority to establish and prescribe
by Board order the rates to be charged for transportation by the motor
vehicles mentioned in Section 71.00. Any Board Order fixing rates must be
approved by the City Council, by ordinance, before taking effect. However,
the Board may by Board Order establish rates to be effective on final
publication and without subsequent ratification by the City Council within
the range of maximum and minimum rates established by ordinance.



 



   (b)   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,193, Eff. 5/29/00, Oper. 7/1/00.) 
No provision of this section shall prevent the Board from approving and
establishing rates outside any ordinance-prescribed maximum and minimum
rates, subject to approval by the City Council in accordance with the
provisions of Section 22.484 (g) of the Los Angeles Administrative Code.



 



   (c)   No rate shall be placed in effect, charged, demanded or
collected for passenger transportation service until the Board, after hearing
upon its own motion, or upon application, or upon complaint, shall have found
and determined said rate to be just, reasonable non-discriminatory,
non-preferential, and not in violation of any provision herein contained or
any provision of law; nor until said rate to be placed in effect, charged,
demanded or collected shall have been approved and established.



 



   (d)   The Board shall have power, upon a hearing upon its own motion
or upon complaint, to investigate a single rate or fare, or the entire
schedule of rates in effect, charged, demanded or collected for
transportation, service, and to establish a new rate or schedule of rates in
lieu thereof. Nothing contained herein shall be construed to empower the
Board to approve or establish any rate, or any schedule of rates for
passenger transportation service that will, by means of rebate, discount,
sale of script books, excursion or commutation tickets, or in anywise,
violate the minimum or maximum rate or the provisions contained in this
section or any provision of law.



 



   (e)   No provision of this article shall be deemed to prevent the
Board upon notice and after hearing, from prescribing boundaries and
establishing rates to be charged for point-to-point trips within such
prescribed boundaries, subject to Paragraphs (a) and (b) above.



 



 



SEC. 71.26.  TRANSPORTATION REGULATION AND ENFORCEMENT TRUST FUND.



   (Added by Ord. No. 170,068, Eff. 11/18/94.)



 



   All monies collected for monetary penalties from taxicab operators,
monetary penalties from individual permit holders or any other fines,
penalties and bond forfeitures collected pursuant to this article shall be
placed in a separate fund entitled “Transportation Regulation and
Enforcement Trust Fund”, to be administered by the Department of
Transportation.  All monies paid into the fund and any interest earned
thereon shall be used for Citywide regulation and enforcement, in excess of
that authorized in the Department’s annual budget, of this article as it
relates to operators, vehicles, and drivers providing both legal and illegal
(“bandit”) transportation services in the City.



 



 



SEC. 71.27.  INSPECTION OF LIMOUSINE WAYBILLS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 180,999, Eff. 1/7/10.)



 



   (a)   The Taxicab Administrator, Chief Transportation Investigator,
Senior Transportation Investigator, Transportation Investigator and any
individual holding Peace Officer status with jurisdictional authority in the
City, may, upon request, inspect the waybill of any charter-party carrier of
passengers operating within the City for the purpose of verifying valid
pre-arranged travel.  As required by Part 3.01 of General Order 157-C
promulgated by the California Public Utilities Commission, or any successor
regulation, the waybill must include the following:



 



   (1)   Name of carrier and TCP number;



 



   (2)   Vehicle license plate number;



 



   (3)   Driver's name;



 



   (4)   Name and address of person requesting or arranging the charter;



 



   (5)   Time and date when charter was arranged;



 



   (6)   Whether the transportation was arranged by telephone or
written contract;



 



   (7)   Number of persons in the charter group;



 



   (8)   Name of at least one passenger in the traveling party, or
identifying information about the traveling party's affiliation; and



 



   (9)   Points of origination and destination.



 



   The party arranging the transportation must have exclusive use of the
vehicle.



 



   (b)   Any person operating a charter-party carrier of passengers
within the City who, upon request by an individual authorized under
Subsection (a) of this Section, fails or refuses to produce his or her
waybill for inspection is guilty of an infraction punishable under this
Section, as provided in Subsection (c) hereof.



 



   (c)   Upon conviction of a violation charged under this Section, the
person so convicted shall be punished for the first offense by a fine of
$100.00; and for a second additional violation within one year of the first
offense, by a fine of $250.00.  A third violation of this Section within one
year shall be prosecuted as a misdemeanor.



 



 



SEC. 71.28.  COMPENSATION TO GAIN ACCESS TO PASSENGERS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 182,483, Eff. 4/21/13.)



 



   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to pay, or offer or agree
to pay, any owner of any hotel, apartment house, motel, inn, rental unit,
restaurant, bar, or other business establishment, or an agent or employee of
any such owner, for recommending or directing any passenger without a
reservation made on a pre-arranged basis to ride in a specific
automobile-for-hire or taxicab, or to a specific company that owns an
automobile-for-hire or taxicab.



 



   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any owner of a hotel, apartment
house, motel, inn, rental unit, restaurant or bar, or other business
establishment, or for an agent or employee of any such owner, to accept or
offer or agree to accept payment for recommending or directing a passenger
without a reservation made on a pre-arranged basis to ride in a specific
Automobile-For-Hire or Taxicab, or to a specific company that owns an
automobile-for-hire or taxicab.



 



   (c)   Violation – Penalties.  A first time violation of this
Section shall result in a fine of Two Hundred Dollars ($200).  A subsequent
offense of this Section is a misdemeanor, punishable upon conviction by a
fine of not less than Two Hundred Fifty Dollars ($250) nor more than One
Thousand Dollars ($1,000), or by imprisonment in the county jail for not more
than six months, or by both fine and imprisonment.



 



   (d)   Severability.  If any section, subsection, sentence, clause,
or phrase of this Ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid or
unconstitutional by a decision of any court of any competent jurisdiction,
such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this
Ordinance.  The City Council hereby declares that it would have passed this
Ordinance and each and every section, subsection, sentence, clause and phrase
thereof not declared invalid or unconstitutional without regard to whether
any portion of the ordinance would be subsequently declared invalid or
unconstitutional.



 



 



SEC. 71.29.  REGULATION OF SHARED MOBILITY DEVICES.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,785, Eff. 10/5/18.)



 



   The Department shall implement a Shared Mobility Device Pilot Program,
and issue a permit to a qualified pilot program operator, as defined in the
Department's Rules and Guidelines, including, but not limited to, an operator
of a dockless bicycle, electric bicycle, motorized scooter and electric
scooter.  Under the Pilot Program, an operator of a shared mobility device
shall obtain a permit from the Department and comply with all Department
permit rules, regulations, indemnification, insurance and fee requirements
set forth in the Department's Rules and Guidelines.  Failure to comply with
the Department's Rules and Guidelines may result in the suspension,
revocation, or a reduction of the number of permits issued by the Department
to an operator.  The Department may amend its Rules and Guidelines as
necessary during the life of the Pilot Program.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 2
RAILROADS AND RAILWAYS



 



 



Section



72.06   Trains – Lights On.



72.07   Trains – Flagman to Precede.



72.10   Trains – Speed.



72.10.1   Clearing Crossings.



72.11   Railroad Connections – Permits.



72.12   Regulation of Train Whistles.



72.16   Sprinkling or Oiling of Roadbed.



 



 



SEC. 72.06.  TRAINS – LIGHTS ON.



 



   No person shall run, propel or operate any railroad car or train of
railroad cars upon, along or across any street or across any railroad track,
interurban railroad track or street railway track, during the period from one
hour after sunset to one hour before sunrise, unless there is attached to
such car or train on the end thereof toward the direction in which such car
or train is proceeding, a bright white light visible in the direction in
which such car or train is proceeding. Such light shall have a reflector
equal in power to the kind usually and customarily used by car inspectors of
steam railroads.



 



   This section and Section 72.07 shall not apply to any car or train if a
competent flagman precedes such car or train carrying a bright white light
visible in the direction in which such car or train is proceeding, and shall
not apply to any car or train when the same is crossing any street, any
railroad track, interurban track or street railway track, if such street or
track is, at the time of such crossing, protected by an interlocking device
or apparatus.



 



   Municipal Corporations may enact and enforce ordinances not
inconsistent with the State law requiring lights on trains.



   7 McQuillen, Municipal Corporations, 768, Sec. 24.710.



 



 



SEC. 72.07.  TRAINS – FLAGMAN TO PRECEDE.



 



   No person shall run, propel or operate any railroad car or train of
railroad cars upon, along or across any street or across any railroad track,
interurban railroad track or street railway track, during the period from one
hour before sunrise to one hour after sunset, unless a competent flagman
shall proceed in advance of such car or train or shall be upon the end
thereof toward which such car or train is proceeding. This section shall not
apply to any car or train if a locomotive is attached to the end thereof
toward which such car or train is proceeding.



 



 



SEC. 72.10.  TRAINS – SPEED.



 



    a.   (Amended by Ord. No. 122,281, Eff. 7/23/62.) The operator of
any steam, electric, diesel or other propelled railroad train, car, or other
rolling stock shall not drive, or cause or permit to be driven such train,
car, or other equipment into or upon a highway or street in excess of the
following speeds:



 



   (1)   At a speed greater than is reasonable or prudent having due
regard for the traffic on, and the surface and width of the highway;



 



   (2)   At a speed which endangers the safety of persons or property;



 



   (3)   At a speed greater than thirty-five (35) miles per hour when
entering any highway or street grade crossing within the following described
boundaries: Beginning at the intersection of the north boundary of the City
of Los Angeles with the Golden State Freeway, thence southerly along said
Golden State Freeway to Foothill Boulevard, thence easterly and southerly
along Foothill Boulevard to Osborne Street, thence southerly along Osborne
Street to Glenoaks Boulevard, thence easterly along Glenoaks Boulevard to the
Los Angeles-Burbank City boundary, thence along said City boundary westerly
and southerly to Riverside Drive, thence westerly along Riverside Drive to
the Ventura Freeway, thence westerly along Ventura Freeway to Topanga Canyon
Boulevard, thence northerly along Topanga Canyon Boulevard to Santa Susana
Avenue, thence northerly along Santa Susana to the Los Angeles City boundary,
thence easterly and northerly along Los Angeles City boundary to the point of
beginning;



 



   (4)   At a speed greater than ten (10) miles per hour whenever such
a train, car or equipment is operated within the City longitudinally over the
same portion of a highway or street that is also used by motor vehicles.



 



   b.   The speed of any such train, car or equipment not in excess of
the limits herein specified is lawful unless clearly proved to be in
violation of the basic rule hereinabove in this section declared.



 



   c.   The speed of any such train, car or equipment upon a highway in
excess of any of the limits specified in this section is prima facie unlawful
unless the defendant establishes by competent evidence that any speed in
excess of said limits did not constitute a violation of the basic rule
hereinabove in this section declared, at the time, place and under the
conditions then existing.



 



   d.   The prima facie limits referred to above are as follows:



 



   1.   Fifteen (15) miles per hour:



 



   (a)   When entering any highway crossing within the district
included within the following described boundaries: Beginning at the
intersection of Soto Street and Huntington Drive, southerly along Soto Street
to the southerly city limits; thence southerly and westerly along the city
boundary to Florence Avenue, thence westerly along Florence Avenue to the
west city boundary, thence northerly along the west city boundary and West
Boulevard to Slauson Avenue, thence easterly on Slauson Avenue to Western
Avenue, thence northerly along Western Avenue to Vernon Avenue, thence
easterly along Vernon Avenue to Broadway, thence northerly along Broadway and
North Broadway to Mission Road, thence northerly along Mission Road and
Huntington Drive to the point of beginning.



 



   2.   Twenty-five (25) miles per hour:



 



   (a)   When entering any highway crossing within the district
included within the following described boundaries: Beginning at the
intersection of the boundary of the City of Los Angeles with Kendall Avenue
and Huntington Drive North, thence southerly and westerly along said city
boundary to the intersection of said city boundary with Soto Street, thence
northerly along Soto Street to Mission Road, thence southerly and westerly
along Mission Road and North Broadway to the Los Angeles River, thence
northerly along the Los Angeles River to North Figueroa Street, thence
northerly along North Figueroa Street, Marmion Way, and Monte Vista Street to
Avenue 61, thence southeasterly along Avenue 61 to Piedmont Avenue, thence
northerly and easterly along Piedmont Avenue, North Figueroa Street, and
Pasadena Avenue to the east city boundary, thence southerly and easterly
along the city boundary to the starting point.



 



   e.   The Board is hereby authorized to determine those streets and
intersections at and on which movement of such train, car or equipment is
hazardous or dangerous to life or property by reason of the volume of traffic
upon such streets or at such intersections, or the lack of visibility of the
drivers of vehicles approaching said streets or intersections, or by reason
of other physical conditions likely to render any such street or intersection
dangerous or hazardous to life and property. (Amended by Ord. No. 151,833,
Eff. 2/10/79, Oper. 2/25/79.)



 



   The Board, after not less the five (5) days written notice of hearing
to such utility company whose operation is affected, and in accordance with
the provisions established by law, shall have power and authority to adopt
resolutions establishing as to said streets and intersections lesser prima
facie speed limits than those set forth above in this section. No such lesser
prima facie speed limits and resolutions shall be effective for more than
thirty (30) days unless the resolution is approved by the City Council.
(Amended by Ord. No. 151,833, Eff. 2/10/79, Oper. 2/25/79.)



 



   An ordinance limiting the speed of trains with the corporate limits of
a City is valid. Gillum v. Pacific Coast Ry. Co. (Wash.), 279 Pac. 114.



   Frazer v. Northern Pac. Ry. Co., 28 Fed. Supp. 20.



 



   But see: Cincinnati v. Lucky (Ohio), 87 N.E. 2d 894.



 



 



SEC. 72.10.1.  CLEARING CROSSINGS.



 



   After having entered any highway crossing, any steam, diesel or
gasoline-propelled railroad train, car or rolling equipment shall be so
operated as to clear such crossing for longitudinal highway traffic as
quickly as practicable, consistent with the speed limits prescribed by law.



 



 



SEC. 72.11.  RAILROAD CONNECTIONS – PERMITS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,301, Eff. 6/30/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)



 



   No person operating a street railroad shall construct or maintain
curved tracks connecting its tracks at any street intersection with the
tracks of any other street railroad operated by the same person without first
obtaining a permit therefor as provided in this section.



 



   (a)   Such person shall first make a written application, signed by
the applicant which shall be filed with the Office of Finance and shall be
accompanied by



 



   (1)   Payment of Twenty-seven dollars and fifty cents ($27.50) to
cover the cost incident to the applicant. (Amended by Ord. No. 137,137,
Eff.9/29/78.)



 



   (2)   A map or diagram showing in detail the location of the work to
be done for which the application is sought, and all intersecting streets at
the point of construction of the proposed work.



 



   (b)   At the next regular meeting of the Council after the filing of
the application, the Office of Finance shall submit the same to the Council.
Before any action is taken thereon, it shall be referred to the Board for its
recommendation. The Board shall proceed to inquire into the application and
within thirty days after such application shall have been referred to it, or
longer if allowed by the Council, shall report to the Council its
recommendation relative thereto. If, in the judgment of the Board, the
application should not be granted, it shall so report, stating its reasons
therefor; and if, in the judgment of the Board, the application should be
granted, it shall recommend the terms and conditions upon which it shall be
granted. Permits shall not be granted by the Council contrary to the
recommendation of the Board except upon two-thirds vote of the entire Council.



 



   (c)   Each permit granted under the provisions of this section shall
be granted by ordinance and not otherwise and shall be revocable at the
pleasure of the Council; provided that in no event shall such permit continue
for a period exceeding the unexpired term of the franchise first to expire
under which street railway tracks are maintained at such street
intersections; and provided further that in no event shall such permit
continue for a period exceeding twenty-one years.



 



   (d)   Each such connection or connecting curve constructed or
maintained under permission granted shall be at all times constructed and
maintained in accordance with the restrictions and limitations contained in
Sec. 49 of the Civil Code of the State of California and in the ordinances of
this City, and in accordance with the regulations prescribed by the Council
in the ordinance granting such permission.



 



   (e)   The payment of the amount required by Subsection (a) hereof
shall be deposited in the Treasury to the credit of the General Expense Fund.



 



 



SEC. 72.12.  REGULATION OF TRAIN WHISTLES.



 



   It shall be unlawful and a public nuisance for any operator of a
railroad train in the Mount Washington and Highland Park areas of the City of
Los Angeles between the intersection of Figueroa Street and Marmion Way up to
and including the area at the intersection of Figueroa and Avenue 61, to blow
or otherwise activate, or permit to be blown or activated, any horn or
whistle when approaching any railroad crossing at grade, protected by
automatic crossing gates, EXCEPT in the case of any emergency. (Amended by
Ord. No. 150,410, Eff. 1/20/78.)



 



 



SEC. 72.16.  SPRINKLING OR OILING OF ROADBED.



 



   It shall be the duty of every railroad and street railroad to so
sprinkle with water, or treat with oil, or otherwise treat that part of the
surface of each street occupied or used by its tracks between the rails and
between the tracks and a strip two (2) feet in width on each side thereof,
that dust will remain settled on said portions of such street when any train,
car or rolling equipment is operated on such tracks; provided, however, that
said requirement shall not apply when such streets are paved.



 



 



 



 


