
Los Angeles Municipal Code


CHAPTER V
PUBLIC SAFETY AND PROTECTION



 



   Article



 




   2   Police and Special Officers




 




   3   Animals and Fowls




 




   3.5   Purchase of Animals From City Zoo




 




   4   Liability for Violation of Hazardous Waste and Substance Control
Laws




 




   5   Firearms – Dangerous Weapons




 




   6   Public Hazards




 




   6.1   Protection of Peace and Security at Medical Facilities




 




   6.5   Emergency Telephone Calls




 




   7   Fire Protection and Prevention (Fire Code)




 




   8   Nuisances




 




   9   Notices Related to Slavery and Human Trafficking




 



 



 



ARTICLE 2
POLICE AND SPECIAL OFFICERS



 



 



Section



52.00   Definitions.



52.01   Issuance of Badges.



52.02   Special Police Officers’ Badges – Issuance.



52.03   Special Police – Application – Contents.



52.04   Special Police – Address to Be Filed.



52.05   Special Police – Fees.



52.06   Special Police – Record of Badges.



52.07   Special Police – Badges Must Be on Person.



52.09   Special Police Badges – Must Be Properly Issued.



52.10   Special Police – Other Badges.



52.10.1   Funeral Escort Officers.



52.11   Special Police – Must Have Badge.



52.12   Unauthorized Wearing of Official Police Officer’s Badge
Prohibited.



52.13   Special Police – Return of Badges.



52.14   Police Badges – Proper Issuance.



52.15   Official Police Officer’s Badge – to Whom Issued.



52.15.1   Civilian Badge – to Whom Issued.



52.16   News Media Identification Cards – Issuance of.



52.17   Limitations on Number of News Media Identification Cards –
Refusal to Issue.



52.18   News Media Identification Cards – Revocation.



52.19   News Media Identification Cards – Records.



52.20   News Media Identification Cards – Return of.



52.21   Police and Civilian Badges – Use by City Departments.



52.22   Police Badges and News Media Identification Cards – Record to Be
Kept.



52.23   Police and Civilian Badges – Manufacture of.



52.24   Police and Civilian Badge Revolving Fund.



52.25   Police and Civilian Badges and News Media Identification Cards –
Return of.



52.26   Custodian of Badges and News Media Identification Cards.



52.27   Badges and News Media Identification Cards – Unauthorized
Possession of.



52.27.1   Retired Officers – Authorized Badges.



52.27.2   Former Reserve Officers – Authorized Badges.



52.27.3   Promotion – Authorized Badges.



52.27.4   Presentation of Badge and Other City-issued Equipment as a
Memorial to a Regular Police Officer Killed in the Line of Duty.



52.28   Police Uniforms – Limitation of.



52.28.1   Special Police Uniforms.



52.29   Police Identification Cards – Issuance.



52.30   Police Identification Cards – Possession of.



52.31   Police Identification Cards – Imitation of.



52.32   Badges – Other Departments.



52.32.1   Port Warden and Special Officers of Harbor Department Designated
as Peace Officers.



52.33   City Attorney Badge.



52.34   Private Patrol Service – Regulations.



52.37.1   Use of Official Police Titles by Private Agencies – Similar
Subterfuges – Prohibited.



52.42   Records Confidential.



52.42.1   Arrest Information.



52.43   False Statements.



52.44   Willfully Listening to Police and Fire Departments’ Portable
Radio Messages – Prohibited.



52.46   Short Wave Radios, Use of.



52.50   Police Department – Making False Reports to.



52.51   Interference with Police Animals.



52.53   Garages – Rental – Report to Police.



52.55   Police Department Retention, Use, Sale or Destruction of Unclaimed
Property.



 



 



SEC. 52.00.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   For the purposes of this article, the following words and phrases are
defined, and shall be construed as hereinafter set out, unless it shall be
apparent from the context that they have a different meaning:



 



   (1)   “Board” shall mean the Board of Police Commissioners.



 



   (2)   “Official Police Officer's Badge” shall mean badges of the
sizes, types and designs last approved by resolution of the Board adopted
subsequent to January 1, 1940 for the use of Regular Police Officers and
Reserve Police Officers.  Each badge shall bear on the face thereof the
title or rank of the person to whom it was issued.  All badges of each title
or rank shall be consecutively numbered and the numbers shall appear on the
face of each badge.  Where a Regular or Reserve Police Officer possesses
more than one Official Police Officer's Badge, those badges shall bear the
same badge number.  (Amended by Ord. No. 175,997, Eff. 7/7/04.)



 



   (3)   (None)



 



   (4)   “Special Police Officer’s Badge” shall mean a badge of
the size, type and design last designated by resolution of the Board for the
use of persons commissioned by the Board to act as Special Police Officers.
Such badge shall have enameled on the face thereof “Special” in addition
to any other words or device and shall so differ in shape and design from the
official police officer’s badge as to be, when displayed or worn, readily
distinguishable therefrom. All such badges shall be consecutively numbered
and the number shall appear on the face of each such badge.



 



   (5)   “Regular Police Officers” shall mean all regular police
officer members of the Police Department of this city appointed under civil
service rules and regulations and duly commissioned and sworn in as provided
by law to perform the duties as peace officers and not retired from active
duty, suspended or discharged; under whatever designation they may be
elsewhere described.



 



   (6)   “Civilian Employee” shall mean all civilian employees of
the Police Department of this City appointed under civil service rules and
regulations, other than regular police officer members. (Added by Ord. No.
112,577, Eff. 2/12/59.)



 



   (7)   “Civilian Badge” shall mean a badge to be readily
distinguishable from the official police office’s badge. Such badge shall
bear on the face thereof the civil service classification of the employee to
whom such badge is assigned and shall be of a design approved by the Board.
(Added by Ord. No. 112,577, Eff. 2/12/59.)



 



 



SEC. 52.01.  ISSUANCE OF BADGES.



 



   No Board or member thereof, or officer or employee of the City of Los
Angeles shall:



 



   (A)   Issue any special Police Officer’s badge, civilian badge or
any official police officer’s badge except to persons lawfully entitled
thereto under the provisions of this Code. (Amended by Ord. No. 112,577, Eff.
2/12/59.)



 



   (B)   Issue to any person whomsoever any honorary police badge or
any other badge calculated to indicate that the holder thereof is a member of
or connected with the Police Department of the City of Los Angeles, except
that special police officers’ badges and official police officers’ badges
may be issued to persons lawfully entitled thereto as elsewhere provided in
this code. (Amended by Ord. No. 112,577, Eff. 2/12/59.)



 



   (C)   Assign, sell, give away or authorize the transfer or use of
any badge, the issuance of which is prohibited by this article.



 



 



SEC. 52.02.  SPECIAL POLICE OFFICERS’ BADGES – ISSUANCE.



 



   Special Police Officers’ Badges shall be issued by the Chief of
Police and only to persons who have secured permits or commissions from the
Board of Special Police Officers who have paid all fees required therefor by
this code. (Amended by Ord. No. 82,838.)



 



 



SEC. 52.03.  SPECIAL POLICE – APPLICATION – CONTENTS.



 



   Application for the issuance of a special police officer’s badge
shall be made to the Chief of Police on regulation forms obtained from the
Secretary of the Board, which application must contain the following data:



 



   (a)   The name and address of the person to whom the badge is to be
issued.



 



   (b)   The duties of the person who requires the issuance of said
badge.



 



   (c)   A description, signature and fingerprint of the person to whom
the badge is to be issued.



 



   (d)   The name and address and signed request of the employer of the
applicant showing the necessity for the issuance of said badge.



 



   The Chief of Police may, in the exercise of reasonable discretion
refuse to issue any such badge to any person if he deems such person not to
be a fit and proper special police officer or if the duties of such person
are not such as come within the purview of this article.



 



 



SEC. 52.04.  SPECIAL POLICE – ADDRESS TO BE FILED.



 



   It shall be the duty of every person to whom a special police
officer’s badge has been issued to furnish and keep on file with the Chief
of Police, the true home address of such person.



 



 



SEC. 52.05.  SPECIAL POLICE – FEES.



 



   The Chief of Police shall make a charge of Two Dollars for the issuance
of every special police officer’s badge and for every badge issued to
replace a lost badge which sum shall be considered as rental for the use of
said badge, which shall at all times be and remain the property of this City.



 



 



SEC. 52.06.  SPECIAL POLICE – RECORD OF BADGES.



 



   The Chief of Police shall at all times keep a record of all special
police officers’ badges issued by the Chief of Police, which record shall,
among other things, show the name and present address of the person to whom
the same was issued, the serial number of the badge, which shall be stamped
on the back of each badge, and the rank or number on the face of said badge.



 



 



SEC. 52.07.  SPECIAL POLICE – BADGES MUST BE ON PERSON.



 



   It shall be the duty of every person having a special police
officer’s commission from the Board, or any person performing special
police work to have on his person a special police officers badge while
performing the duties of a special police officer.



 



 



SEC. 52.09.  SPECIAL POLICE BADGES – MUST BE PROPERLY ISSUED.



 



   No person shall wear or have in his possession any special police
officers badge unless said badge has been regularly issued to such person in
accordance with the provisions of this Article.



 



 



SEC. 52.10.  SPECIAL POLICE – OTHER BADGES.



 



   No person shall wear or have in his possession while performing the
duties of a special officer, any badge other than a special police
officer’s badge.



 



 



SEC. 52.10.1.  FUNERAL ESCORT OFFICERS.



 



   Any person acting as a funeral escort officer within the City of Los
Angeles shall possess a valid license issued by the County of Los Angeles
under the provisions of Section 1253 of Los Angeles County Ordinance No.
5860. (Amended by Ord. No. 154,186, Eff. 8/22/80.)



 



 



SEC. 52.11.  SPECIAL POLICE – MUST HAVE BADGE.



 



   No person shall perform any duties of a special police officer unless
such person shall first secure a special police officer’s badge as provided
in this article.



 



 



SEC. 52.12.  UNAUTHORIZED WEARING OF OFFICIAL POLICE OFFICER’S BADGE
PROHIBITED.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 177,374, Eff. 4/9/06.)



 



   No person who is not a Regular Police Officer or Reserve Police Officer
shall wear, display or carry an Official Police Officer's Badge.



 



 



SEC. 52.13.  SPECIAL POLICE – RETURN OF BADGES.



 



   It shall be the duty of any person after he has served his employment
with any private patrol or bank, or who has ceased to perform the duties
which require the issuance of a special police officer’s badge, to return
the special police officer’s badge to the Chief of Police.



 



 



SEC. 52.14.  POLICE BADGES – PROPER ISSUANCE.



 



   Official police officer’s badges shall be issued only by the Board
and the same shall be issued only after official action is taken by the Board
authorizing the issuance of the same.



 



 



SEC. 52.15.  OFFICIAL POLICE OFFICER’S BADGE – TO WHOM ISSUED.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 175,997, Eff. 7/7/04.)



 



   The Board may issue Official Police Officer Badges to each Regular
Police Officer or Reserve Police Officer.  Neither the Board nor any other
officer or employee of the City shall issue any Official Police Officer's
Badge to any person not a Regular Police Officer or Reserve Police Officer.



 



 



SEC. 52.15.1.  CIVILIAN BADGE – TO WHOM ISSUED.



   (Added by Ord. No. 112,577, Eff. 2/12/59.)



 



   The Board may issue a civilian badge indicating the civil service
classification of the person to whom issued when the duties of the civilian
employee involve the active enforcement of law, or when he performs other
public duties which, in the judgment of the Board or Chief of Police, are
such as to require that he wear or carry a badge for the purpose of
identification.



 



   No person not entitled thereto shall wear, display or carry a civilian
badge.



 



 



SEC. 52.16.  NEWS MEDIA IDENTIFICATION CARDS – ISSUANCE OF.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 150,115, Eff. 10/20/77. )



 



   A.   The Board is hereby authorized, and may delegate the authority
to the Department, to issue news media identification cards (hereinafter
“cards”) only to those whom the Board or the Department determines to be
actual news-gathering representatives of newspapers or publications, news
services, radio or television stations maintaining a regular news service or
to self-employed reporters and photographers who regularly cover news events
at which police and/or fire lines within the City of Los Angeles are
established. The exclusive purpose of such cards shall be to enable the
bearer thereof to pass through established police and fire lines in order to
cover news events occurring behind such lines .



 



   B.   Each card shall be issued either for the current calendar year,
or for a lesser period and shall bear upon its face:



 



   1.   The words “News Media” imprinted in bold letters.



 



   2.   A distinct number.



 



   3.   The name of the newspaper, news service, radio or television
station, or the name of the self-employed reporter or photographer
represented.



 



   4.   A photograph of the holder.



 



   5.   The right index fingerprint of the holder.



 



   6.   The signature of the holder.



 



   7.   The signature of the Chief of Police.



 



   8.   The year of issuance imprinted in bold numbers.



 



   9.   The age, weight, height, color of hair, and color of eyes of
the holder.



 



   C.   No card shall be issued until application shall have been made
to the Board or the Department (if the Board has delegated authority to the
Department). An applicant may be required to furnish the following
information:



 



   1.   The name, residence address, and residence telephone number of
the applicant.



 



   2.   The age, weight, height, color of hair and color of eyes of the
applicant.



 



   3.   The date of the application.



 



   4.   The reason for the issuance of said card.



 



   5.   If the applicant represents a newspaper, news service, radio or
television station, the name, address and telephone number of the newspaper,
news service, radio or television station represented.



 



   6.   If the applicant represents a newspaper, news service, radio or
television station, the exact employment relationship between the applicant
and the newspaper, publication, news service with the verification of the
same and of the fact that the applicant is an actual news-gathering
representative thereof by the manager of said newspaper, publication, news
service, radio or television station.



 



   7.   If the applicant is a self-employed reporter or photographer,
the past experience and demonstrated need of the applicant to cover on a
regular basis news events at which police and/or fire lines are established.



 



   D.   Each applicant shall be cleared through the Records and
Identification Division, and a space on the application shall be provided for
the notation of such clearance. The application shall also contain a space
for written approval, or disapproval, by the Chief of Police and the reasons
therefor.



 



   E.   If any applicant is denied a card by the Department, he or she
may appeal such denial to the Board, which shall promptly review the reasons
for such denial and issue a decision either affirming or overruling the
Department.



 



   F.   Temporary cards, the duration of which shall last no more than
one month, may be issued to news media representatives who do not qualify
under Section A hereof.



 



   G.   Appropriate guidelines interpreting the implementation of this
ordinance shall be approved by the Board. Said guidelines shall be made
available upon request to all applicants for cards.



 



   H.   The fee for issuance of a card shall be $42.00; provided,
however, that no fee shall be charged for the reissuance of such card. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 185,605, Eff. 7/8/18.)



 



 



SEC. 52.17.  LIMITATIONS ON NUMBER OF NEWS MEDIA IDENTIFICATION CARDS –
REFUSAL TO ISSUE.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 150,115, Eff. 10/20/77.)



 



   A.   The Board, or the Department (if the Board has delegated
authority to issue cards to the Department) may, in the exercise of its
reasonable discretion, limit the number of cards to be issued, and may also
refuse to issue a card to any applicant. Any applicant who is refused a card
by the Chief of Police may appeal to the Board in accordance with Section
52.16 E. hereof.



 



 



SEC. 52.18.  NEWS MEDIA IDENTIFICATION CARDS – REVOCATION.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 150,115, Eff. 10/20/77.)



 



   A.   The Board, or the Department (if the Board has delegated
authority to the Department) may revoke a card after it has determined that
the holder thereof has resisted officers in the discharge of their duties,
delayed or obstructed officers conducting an investigation, has interfered
with firemen at a fire, endangered the preservation of public order and
safety where police and/or fire lines have been established, or no longer has
the qualifications necessary for the issuance of a card. Any such revocation
of a card by the Department may be appealed to the Board in accordance with
Section 52.16 E. hereof.



 



 



SEC. 52.19.  NEWS MEDIA IDENTIFICATION CARDS – RECORDS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 150,115, Eff. 10/20/77.)



 



   A.   The Board or the Department (if the Board has delegated
authority to the Department) shall at all times maintain a correct current
list of the names, addresses and employers (if any) of the bearers of all
cards which have been issued pursuant to Section 52.16 A.



 



   B.   Each person to whom a card has been issued shall, within five
days, notify the Board in writing as to each and every change of his or her
residence address or employer.



 



 



SEC. 52.20.  NEWS MEDIA IDENTIFICATION CARDS – RETURN OF.



 



   The holder of a card who no longer covers, on a regular or on-call
basis. news events at which police and/or fire lines are established, or
whose card has been revoked, shall return such card to the Board within ten
(10) days of such occurrence. (Amended by Ord. No. 150,115, Eff. 10/20/77. )



 



 



SEC. 52.21.  POLICE AND CIVILIAN BADGES – USE BY CITY DEPARTMENTS.



 



   No department of the City Government shall use a design or insignia for
an official badge for said department identical with or similar to an
official police officer’s badge or civilian badge, or special police
officer’s badge. (Amended by Ord. No. 112,577, Eff. 2/12/59.)



 



 



SEC. 52.22.  POLICE BADGES AND NEWS MEDIA IDENTIFICATION CARDS – RECORD TO
BE KEPT.



   (Title Amended by Ord. No. 139,522, Eff. 12/21/69.)



 



   A.   The Board shall at all times keep a record of all badges issued
by the said Board, which record shall show, among other things, the name and
present residence address of the person to whom each badge was issued and the
rank and number on the face of said badge.



 



   B.   The Board shall, at all times, keep a record of all news media
identification cards issued by the said Board, which record shall show, among
other things, the name and present residence address of each person to whom
such a card was issued, the name and address of the newspaper, news service,
radio or television station represented, and the consecutive serial number of
each card. (Amended by Ord. No. 139,522, Eff. 12/21/69. )



 



 



SEC. 52.23.  POLICE AND CIVILIAN BADGES – MANUFACTURE OF.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 112,577, Eff. 2/12/59.)



 



   A.   No person shall manufacture, make, sell, design, or transfer
any official police officer’s badge, civilian badge, or special police
officer’s badge without the written authorization of the Board therefor;
such person may deliver such badges only to the Board, and may manufacture
only the number of badges authorized by the Board. Nothing in this section
shall be construed as affecting the manner in which contracts for the
purchases of badges by the City shall be let, as provided in Section 380 of
the Charter.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,276, Eff. 6/25/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)



 



   B.   No person shall manufacture, make, sell, design or transfer any
badge, star, shield, miniature, ring, charm or insignia, regardless of size,
shape or design, which has on it the words “Los Angeles Police” or “Los
Angeles Detective,” whether used separately, together, or in a combination
with any other words indicating a connection with the Los Angeles Police
Department, or which is identical in design with or which resembles or may be
mistaken for, the design of the official police officer’s badge, civilian
badge, or special police officer’s badge, except as provided for in
subsection A. hereof.



 



 



SEC. 52.24.  POLICE AND CIVILIAN BADGE REVOLVING FUND.



 



   The Police Badge Revolving Fund heretofore established shall be at all
times administered by the Chief of Police. The payment for any and all police
officers’ badges or civilian badges shall be turned into this fund. Said
fund shall be used for the manufacture, replating and repairing of badges of
any and all types, sizes and designs heretofore or hereafter approved and
issued by the Board or the Chief of Police, irrespective of whether the same
are special police officers’ badges, civilian badges, or official police
officers’ badges. (Amended by Ord. No. 112,577, Eff. 2/12/59.)



 



 



SEC. 52.25.  POLICE AND CIVILIAN BADGES AND NEWS MEDIA IDENTIFICATION CARDS
– RETURN OF.



 



   All official police officers’ badges, civilian badges, and news media
identification cards shall be the property of the City of Los Angeles, and
shall at no time become the personal property of any individual. When any
person shall sever his connection with the Police Department, or shall retire
on pension, it shall be his duty to return his official police officer’s
badge or civilian badge to the Board. When any person shall sever his
connection with a newspaper, publication, news service, television or radio
station, it shall be his duty to return his news media identification card to
the Board. (Amended by Ord. No. 139,522, Eff. 12/21/69.)



 



 



SEC. 52.26.  CUSTODIAN OF BADGES AND NEWS MEDIA IDENTIFICATION CARDS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 139,522, Eff.12/21/69.)



 



   The Board shall appoint an officer of the Police Department to be the
custodian of all badges and news media identification cards, and no official
police officer’s badge, special police officer’s badge, civilian badge or
news media identification card shall be issued to any person except by the
custodian, who shall make a complete record of all badges and all news media
identification cards so distributed, and shall distribute the same only as
prescribed in this article.



 



   The said custodian shall be responsible for the delivery of said badges
and news media identification cards, and it shall be his duty to recall any
and all badges of persons who have severed their connections with the Police
Department or who have retired on pension.



 



   It shall be his further duty to recall any and an news media
identification cards of persons who have given up their positions as
news-gathering representatives of newspapers, publications, news services,
radio or television stations.



 



   It shall be his further duty to recall any and all special police
officers’ badges from any person who have ceased to perform the duties of
special police officers.



 



 



SEC. 52.27.  BADGES AND NEWS MEDIA IDENTIFICATION CARDS – UNAUTHORIZED
POSSESSION OF.



   (Title Amended by Ord. No. 139,522, Eff. 12/21/69.)



 



   A.   No person shall have in his possession any official police
officer’s badge, civilian badge or special police officer’s badge or news
media identification card which has not been lawfully issued to him according
to the provisions of this article. No person shall possess any such card or
badge after his right to use such card or badge  has been terminated.
(Amended by Ord. No. 139,522, Eff. 12/21/69.)



 



   B.   No person shall have in his possession any other badge, star,
shield, miniature, ring, charm or insignia, regardless of the size, shape or
design thereof, which has on it the words, “Los Angeles Police” or “Los
Angeles Detective”, whether used separately, together or in combination
with any other words indicating a connection with the Los Angeles Police
Department, or which is identical in design with or which so resembles an
official police officer’s badge, civilian badge, or special police
officer’s badge that it may be readily mistaken for any of such badges.
(Amended by Ord. No. 112,577, Eff. 2/12/59.)



 



   C.   No person who is not a regular police officer, or one entitled
to wear a civilian badge, or a special police officer shall wear or display
any badge, star or insignia, calculated to indicate that he is a member of or
connected with the Police Department of the City of Los Angeles.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 112,577, Eff. 2/12/59)



 



 



SEC. 52.27.1.  RETIRED OFFICERS – AUTHORIZED BADGES.



 



   (a)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this article, any
person who has been, during his lifetime, a duly and regularly appointed,
commissioned and sworn police officer of this city and who was honorably
retired from such position prior to June 10, 1940, may retain and carry any
badge lawfully issued to him or otherwise lawfully acquired by him during his
service or incident to his retirement, provided the word “RETIRED” is
plainly shown on such badge, by being engraved or embossed thereon or
otherwise permanently affixed thereto.



 



   (b)   Retirement.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,594, Eff. 4/10/11.) 
Pursuant to California Penal Code Section 538d, Subsection (d), the Board of
Police Commissioners is authorized to issue a badge to any regular sworn
police officer who is honorably retired, which that retired officer may
carry.  The badge shall be especially adopted or approved for this specific
purpose by the Board.



 



   1.   The badge shall contain the words "Honorably Retired", clearly
visible in capital letters, blue in color, on a ribbon to be permanently
affixed to the badge directly above the scroll containing the rank of the
officer.  This badge shall be known as the "Retired Officer's Badge".



 



   2.   Upon the return of a retired officer to active duty or upon
demand of the Board, any Retired Officer's Badge previously issued to that
person shall be returned to the Board.



 



   3.   The Board is authorized to revoke a badge issued pursuant to
this Section in the event of misuse or abuse.



 



   (c)   Any honorary badge or other badge lawfully acquired indicating
that the bearer occupied public office in the City, upon which appears the
bearer’s name  and which plainly shows the word “RETIRED” may be
retained if lawfully acquired prior to June 10, 1940, by any person who prior
to that date held any of the following offices in the government of this City:



 



   1.   Mayor,



 



   2.   Secretary to the Mayor,



 



   3.   Commissioner of any Board,



 



   4.   Secretary to any Board,



 



   5.   Secretary to the Chief of Police,



 



   6.   Councilman,



 



   7.   Any other elective office,



 



   8.   Managing officer of any department.



 



   (d)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to authorize the use
of any badge herein mentioned for any unlawful purpose and any such badge so
used may be confiscated by the Board.



 



   (e)   Any badge mentioned in this section shall be subject to
confiscation by the Board if worn or displayed by any person other than the
true owner, and shall be returned to the true owner only upon a showing that
such use was without consent, express or implied.



 



 



SEC. 52.27.2.  FORMER RESERVE OFFICERS – AUTHORIZED BADGES.



   (Added and Former Sec. 52.27.2 Renumbered as Sec. 52.27.4 by Ord. No.
177,374, Eff. 4/9/06.)



 



   (a)   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to issue an honorary
badge to any reserve officer, who has honorably separated after serving the
Department for at least 20 years, or has been forced to separate because of a
service-connected injury.  The badge shall be especially adopted or approved
for this specific purpose by the Board.  The badge shall plainly show the
words "RETIRED", engraved or embossed on the badge.  Any badge so adopted
shall be known as the "Former Reserve Officer's Badge".



 



   (b)   Upon the return of a separated reserve officer to active duty
or upon demand of the Chief of Police, any "Former Reserve Officer's Badge"
previously issued to that person shall be returned to the Chief of Police.



 



 



SEC. 52.27.3.  PROMOTION – AUTHORIZED BADGES.



   (Added by Ord. No. 175,997, Eff. 7/7/04.)



 



   (a)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this article, a
Regular Police Officer or Reserve Police Officer may purchase and retain any
badge lawfully issued to him or her upon promotion to a different rank,
provided that upon purchase, the Board shall cause such badges to be encased,
which will effectively preclude the improper use of such badges.



 



   (b)   No person shall remove from the encasement, any badge obtained
under this section, or wear such a badge or display it, except while it is
within the encasement.  Any badge removed, worn or displayed in violation of
this subsection shall be subject to confiscation by the Board.



 



   (c)   Upon demand of the Chief of Police, any badge obtained under
this section shall be returned to the Chief of Police.



 



 



SEC. 52.27.4.  PRESENTATION OF BADGE AND OTHER CITY-ISSUED EQUIPMENT AS A
MEMORIAL TO A REGULAR POLICE OFFICER KILLED IN THE LINE OF DUTY.




   (Amended by Ord. No. 170,055, Eff. 11/13/94; Renumbered from Former
Sec. 52.27.2 by Ord. No. 177,374, Eff. 4/9/06.)




 



   (a)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code, the Board of
Police Commissioners may:



 



   1.   Cause the officer's badge and number to be retired from active
service and use.



 



   2.   Cause the badge, or a similar badge, to be presented to the
deceased officer's surviving spouse of surviving member(s) of the officer's
immediate family, as a memorial honoring the officer.



 



   3.   Cause the officer's City-issued equipment, including an
officer's duty weapon, shooting medals, cap piece, handcuffs, call box key
and buttons, to also be included at the City's expense in the memorial which
is presented to the deceased officer's surviving spouse or surviving
member(s) of the officer's immediate family.



 



   A.   Prior to the presentation, the Board shall cause the badge and
other City-issued equipment to be affixed permanently to a plaque or within a
frame, which will effectively preclude improper use of the badge or other
City-issued equipment, with a statement clearly visible showing the officer's
death in the line of duty.



 



   B.   No person shall remove from the plaque or frame any badge or
other City-issued equipment presented under this section, or wear such a
badge, or display it, except while it is attached to the plaque or within the
frame, with the above described statement clearly visible.  Any badge or
other City-issued equipment removed, worn or displayed in violation of this
subsection shall be subject to confiscation by the Board.



 



 



SEC. 52.28.  POLICE UNIFORMS – LIMITATION OF.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 164,340, Eff. 2/20/89.)



 



   No person, other than a sworn police officer, shall wear any shoulder
emblem or any uniform of a pattern, or design, or in the semblance of the
uniform, adopted, or hereafter adopted, by the Board for the use of the
regular members of the police department, or wear upon any uniform any star,
badge, or insignia of a pattern or design that may be mistaken for, or
confused with, the official police officer’s badge.



 



   Notwithstanding the foregoing paragraph of this section, any retired
Los Angeles Police officer authorized by the Chief of Police and actively
employed to perform traffic control and crowd control pursuant to the
provisions of Section 80.03.1 at the site of the filming of any motion
picture or television production, may wear the uniform of the Los Angeles
Police Department with the retirees retired officer’s badge affixed thereto.



 



 



SEC. 52.28.1.  SPECIAL POLICE UNIFORMS.



 



   The Board shall have the power and authority to adopt and prescribe, by
resolution, the uniform to be worn by all special officers, bank guards, and
funeral escorts, if any uniform is worn, while performing the duties of a
special police officer. The uniform so prescribed for any such class of
special officer may, but need not be the same as the uniform so prescribed
for the other such class, or classes of special officers.



 



 



SEC. 52.29.  POLICE IDENTIFICATION CARDS – ISSUANCE.



 



   The Board is hereby authorized and directed to issue to each and every
regular Police Officer of this City a numbered identification card which
shall bear the printed name, serial number, signature, photograph and right
index fingerprint of each such Regular Police Officer. Each such card shall
bear the signature of the Chief of Police, or his duly appointed deputy, in
office at the time of issuance of such identification card. Each
identification card shall state thereon that the holder thereof is a police
officer of this City.



 



   Neither the Board, the Chief of Police nor any other person shall issue
a Police Identification Card as provided for in this Section to any person
other than a Regular Police Officer. An honorably retired police officer
shall return his or her identification card to the Department and a new card
which has the preprinted word “RETIRED” across the face of the card will
be issued to the officer, provided however that possession of such card shall
be a privilege only, and the card shall be surrendered to the Chief of Police
upon demand. In any event, the Department shall issue to honorably retired
police officers identification certificates which carry endorsement and other
requirements set forth in Penal Code Section 12027(a) and the Department
shall implement any review by said Penal Code section.  (Amended by Ord. No.
161,876, Eff. 1/23/87.)



 



 



SEC. 52.30.  POLICE IDENTIFICATION CARDS – POSSESSION OF.



 



   No person other than a Regular or Retired Police Officer shall have in
his or her possession any Identification Card issued to, or intended to be
issued to, or purporting to have been issued to a Regular or Retired Police
Officer of the City of Los Angeles, provided, however, that an honorably
Retired Police Officer may possess an Identification Card which has the
printed word “RETIRED” across the face of said card.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 161,876, Eff. 1/23/87.)



 



 



SEC. 52.31.  POLICE IDENTIFICATION CARDS – IMITATION OF.



 



   No person shall print or issue or have in his possession any
identification card similar to the identification card mentioned in Section
52.29 of this Code, or any identification card stating that the person whose
name appears thereon is a police officer or sworn officer of this City.



 



 



SEC. 52.32.  BADGES – OTHER DEPARTMENTS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 172,692, Eff. 8/8/99.)



 



   (a)   Uniform Departmental Badge.  “Uniform departmental Badge”
shall mean a badge, to be readily distinguishable from the official police
officer’s badge, of a design selected by the Purchasing Agent and approved
by the Council for the use of departments of this City other than the Police
Department, the Fire Department and the Office of the City Attorney.



 



   (b)   Badges Issued to Other Than Elected Officials and Members of
Boards and Commissions.  The provisions of this subdivision apply to the
issuance of uniform departmental badges to other than elected officials and
members of boards and commissions:



 



   1.   Except as authorized in the appropriate departmental personnel
ordinance, no uniform departmental badge shall be issued to, or be carried,
worn or displayed by any person employed by any department whose funds are
under the control of the City Council.  The respective boards of departments
given control of their own funds by the Charter may designate the officers
and employees entitled to use badges under the restrictions set forth in this
subsection.



 



   2.   No uniform departmental badge shall be issued to or be used,
worn or carried by any person unless his or her duties involve the active
enforcement of law, or unless he or she performs other public duties which,
in the judgment of the board or officer in control of the department or
office are such as to require that such person wear or carry a badge for
purposes of identification.



 



   3.   Uniform departmental badges shall be issued only by the
managing officers of the respective departments or offices.  Such badges
shall be consecutively numbered in each department or office.  The managing
officer of each department or office shall keep records showing the number of
each badge, the date of its issuance, and the name and residence address of
the person to whom issued.  Each badge shall remain the property of the City
and must be returned to the managing officer at the conclusion of the
holder’s service or upon his or her being assigned duties not requiring the
use of the badge.



 



   4.   Each officer or employee to whom a badge is issued must
reimburse the City for the cost thereof if the badge is lost or destroyed
through his or her negligence, or if the badge is not turned in to the
managing officer at the termination of employment.



 



   5.   Issuance of identification disks is authorized and any City
employee may, by order of the respective officers or boards in control of
their departments or offices, be permitted or required while performing their
duties to wear identification disks devoid of ornamentation and containing
only plain stamped letters and figures calculated to identify the wearer of
his or her position.  Such disks must be no more than two inches in diameter.



 



   6.   When the holder of any badge, the use of which is authorized
under this subsection, is honorably retired, the same or another badge may be
reissued to him or her, provided there is permanently affixed thereto or
engraved or embossed thereon, at his or her expense, the word “RETIRED”
and figures showing his or her term of service. Such badge holder must
reimburse the City for the cost of the badge.



 



   (c)   Badges Issued to Elected Officials and Members of Boards and
Commissions.  (Amended by Ord. No. 176,102, Eff. 8/23/04.)  The provisions
of this subsection shall apply to elected officials and to members of the
Board of Police Commissioners, Board of Fire Commissioners, Board of Airport
Commissioners, Board of Harbor Commissioners, and Board of Water and Power
Commissioners.  Members of all other boards and commissions shall not be
issued badges.



 



   1.   The City Clerk shall be responsible for purchasing, issuing and
record-keeping related to badges issued to elected officials and members of
City boards and commissions.  The City Clerk shall utilize such forms and
procedures as deemed necessary and appropriate to satisfy the
responsibilities assigned to that Office under this subsection.



 



   2.   The City Clerk shall issue badges to the incumbent in each of
the following City offices:  Mayor, City Attorney, City Controller, and
Member of the City Council.  When any such elected official leaves office
the same or another badge may be reissued to the official, provided there is
permanently affixed thereto or engraved or embossed thereon the word
"RETIRED" and figures showing his or her term of service.



 



   3.   Requests from boards or commissions for the issuance of badges
shall be submitted to the City Clerk for referral to the appropriate Council
Committee for review and recommendation to the full Council.  Upon Council
approval, the individual in question shall be issued a badge.  However
before the issuance of the badge, the person being issued the badge shall be
required to read a document which sets forth the terms and conditions imposed
on the issuance of said badge, and shall sign that document acknowledging the
receipt of the badge and the reading of the terms and conditions.  The terms
and conditions shall include, but not be limited to, the following:



 



   a.   The badge is the property of the City of Los Angeles;



 



   b.   Upon leaving the board or commission, the badge shall be
collected and forwarded to the City Clerk, who, upon request from the board
or commission, shall reissue the same or another badge to the departing
commissioner, provided the badge is permanently encased in plexiglass or
other substance more than twice its size and from which it cannot be removed,
the badge is engraved or embossed with the word "RETIRED" and figures showing
his or her term of service, and, it conforms to any additional control
measures and mechanisms to prevent misuse as instituted by the City Clerk;
the recipient of such badge shall reimburse the City for the cost of the
badge;



 



   c.   Loss of the badge shall be reported immediately to the City
Clerk in writing, with replacement at the expense of the person to whom the
badge was issued;



 



   d.   The badge may be used only during activities related to the
responsibilities of the board or commission.



 



   (d)   Unauthorized Badges - City Officers and Employees.  No
officer or employee of this City shall wear, carry or use, within or under
color of the performance of his or her official duties, any badge which he or
she is not expressly authorized to use by this Code.  All unauthorized
badges must be returned to the managing officers of the respective
departments or offices.



 



   (e)   Persons Other Than City Officers and Employees.  No person
other than a City officer or employee shall wear, carry or use any badge or
other insignia of office or employment in the government of this City, or any
badge, identification card or insignia which is calculated to indicate that
the holder is an officer or employee of this City, provided, however, that
this provision shall not apply if the possession and use of such badge, card
or insignia is expressly permitted by ordinance.



 



 



SEC. 52.32.1.  PORT WARDEN AND SPECIAL OFFICERS OF HARBOR DEPARTMENT
DESIGNATED AS PEACE OFFICERS.



 



   The port warden and special officers of the Harbor Department of the
City of Los Angeles are hereby duly appointed and designated as peace
officers for the purpose of carrying concealed upon their person or concealed
within any vehicle which is under their control or direction any pistol,
revolver or other firearm capable of being concealed upon the person while
such port warden or special officers are in the City of Los Angeles and while
they are engaged in the performance of the duties of their respective
employments. (Added by Ord. No. 140,142, Eff. 5/15/70.)



 



 



SEC. 52.33.  CITY ATTORNEY BADGE.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 170,143, Eff. 1/6/95.)



 



   (a)   Uniform City Attorney Badge.  “Uniform City Attorney
Badge” shall mean a badge, to be readily distinguished from the official
police officers badge, of a design selected by the Purchasing Agent and
approved by the City Attorney.



 



   (b)   Issuance Restricted.  No uniform City Attorney badge shall be
issued to or be used, worn or carried by any person, unless the employee’s
duties involve the active enforcement of law, or unless the employee performs
other public duties which, in the judgment of the City Attorney are such as
to require that the employee wear or carry a badge for purposes of
identification.



 



   (c)   Managing Officers - Issuance and Records of Badges.  Uniform
City Attorney badges shall be issued only by the City Attorney.  Such badges
shall be consecutively numbered.  The City Attorney shall keep records
showing the number of each badge, the date of its issuance, and the name and
residence address of the person to whom issued.  Each badge shall remain the
property of the City and must be returned to the City Attorney at the
conclusion of the holder’s service or upon the holder being assigned duties
not requiring the use of the badge.



 



   (d)   Reimbursement Required.  Each employee to whom a badge is
issued must reimburse the City for the cost thereof if the badge be lost or
destroyed through the employee’s negligence, or if the badge be not turned
in to the City Attorney at the termination of employment.



 



   (e)   Retired Officers and Employees.  When the holder of any
badge, the use of which is authorized under this section, is honorably
retired, the same or another badge may be reissued to the retiree, provided
there be permanently affixed thereto to engraved or embossed thereon, at his
expense, the word “RETIRED” and figures showing the retiree’s term of
service.  The retiree must reimburse the City for the cost of the badge.



 



 



SEC. 52.34.  PRIVATE PATROL SERVICE – REGULATIONS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,375, Eff. 8/5/00.)



 



   (a)   Definitions.



 



   For the purpose of this article, certain terms used herein are defined
as follows:



 



   (1)   Private Patrol Service.  The term “private patrol 
service”  shall mean any “private patrol operator” as defined in the
California Business and Professions Code which furnishes or purports to
furnish to members, subscribers, or customers any street patrol officer for
the purpose of affording additional security and protection of person and
property or to perform any other service directly related to the “private
protection of life and property.”



 



   (2)   Street Patrol Officer.  The term “street patrol 
officer” shall mean any person who performs for a private patrol service
the duties of a uniformed guard or uniformed patrol officer or any of the
duties described in subdivision (a)(1) by street patrol service utilizing
foot patrol, motor patrol, or other means of transportation in public areas,
City streets, or public thoroughfares.  This definition shall not apply to
uniformed guards or uniformed caretakers employed by an entity other than a
private patrol service, such as by industrial plants, department stores,
community associations, or private clubs wherein said function does not
require patrolling from one location to another by use of a City street, nor
shall it apply to persons employed by such an entity solely in connection
with the commercial, public, or professional business of such an entity.



 



   (b)   Private Patrol Services.



 



   (1)   Permit.  It shall be unlawful to engage in the business of
maintaining or operating any private patrol service in the City of Los
Angeles without first obtaining a license as required by the State of
California and a permit from the City.



 



   (2)   Requirements for Permits.  The following requirements must be
met to obtain a permit to operate, maintain and conduct a private patrol
service in the City.



 



   A.   Registration.  A registration form shall be filed with the
Board of Police Commissioners on forms supplied by the City.  The
registration form shall be signed and verified by the registrant and shall
state the name, address and organization of the private security  service,
its method of operation, the territory or location it proposes to serve, the
names, addresses of its officers, members, associates and employees and a
description of the procedures for investigating citizen complaints against
its street patrol officers.



 



   B.   State License.  The registration form for a permit shall be
accompanied by a photostatic or certified copy of the private patrol
service’s State of California License evidencing compliance with State laws
relating to the business of private patrols.



 



   C.   Insurance.  Upon request, a private patrol service shall
furnish to the Board of  Police Commissioners evidence of the following
insurance:  workers’ compensation, general liability insurance, automobile
insurance in the amounts required by State law.



 



   (c)   Street Patrol Officers.



 



   (1)  Registration.  It shall be unlawful for any person to perform
the duties of a street patrol officer in the City of Los Angeles without
first obtaining a Guard Registration card as required by the State of
California and registering with the City.  Upon the registration being
accepted by the City, the Board of Police Commissioners may issue a permit
which shall be subject to all of the provisions of Chapter 10 of this Code,
including all the rights, regulations, and due process procedures contained
therein.  The Board of Police Commissioners shall retain street patrol
officer permits in its files.



 



   (2)  Requirements for Registration.  The following requirements must
be met to register to perform the duties of a street patrol officer in the
City.



 



   A.   Registration.  A registration form shall be filed with the
Board of Police Commissioners on forms supplied by the City.  The
registration form shall be signed and verified by the registrant and shall
state his name, address and the name and address of the private patrol
service by whom he is employed.  The registration form shall be submitted to
the Board of Police Commissioners within 15 days of the Street Patrol Officer
being hired by the Private Patrol Service.  Registration forms may be
submitted by hand-delivery, U.S. mail or facsimile.



 



   B.   State Registration Card.  The registration form for a street
patrol officer permit must be accompanied by a photostatic or certified copy
of his State of California Guard Registration card evidencing compliance with
the State laws relating to the occupation of    a street patrol officer.



 



   (d)   Uniform, Equipment, Badges, Insignia.



 



   (1)  General.  Any badge, insignia, patch or uniform used or worn by
any employee, officer, member or associate of a private patrol service, while
on duty for said patrol service, shall be in compliance with State law.  Any
such badge, insignia, patch or uniform shall not be of such a design as to be
mistaken for an official badge, insignia or uniform worn by a law enforcement
officer of the City of Los Angeles or any other law enforcement agency with
jurisdiction in the City.



 



   (2)   Uniforms.  The Private Patrol Service shall submit to the
Board of Police Commissioners a sample or color photograph of the proposed
uniform for approval by the Board to ensure that it does not resemble a
uniform of any law enforcement agency with jurisdiction in the City.  No
uniform shall be worn if the sample thereof submitted to the Board has been
determined to be in violation of subsection (d)(1).



 



   (3)   Equipment, Weapons, Ammunition.  Street Patrol Officers are
only authorized to carry .38 caliber, .45 caliber, .357 caliber and 9
millimeter firearms.  The Board of Police Commissioners shall have the
authority to grant an exception to this subsection upon a showing of good
cause.  Firearms and ammunition used by street patrol officers shall be of a
brand name, model and caliber approved by the State of California.  No
street patrol officer shall carry any firearm in the performance of his
duties unless he possesses a valid firearm qualification card issued by the
State for said firearm.  Other authorized weapons include State approved
batons and chemical agents as authorized by the officer’s State permit.



 



   (e)   Motor Vehicles.  Each vehicle used for the purpose of
patrolling shall comply with California Vehicle Code section 25279(b) and at
a minimum the letters and numerals shall be clearly visible and readable from
a distance of fifty feet and shall be permanently affixed to the vehicle.  A
private patrol service shall not use or permit to be used for purposes of
patrolling, any vehicle which is not marked and identifiable with approved
markings or insignia in accordance herewith.  No vehicle used by a private
patrol service shall be equipped with a red light, siren, or be painted in a
manner similar to a police vehicle of the City of Los Angeles or other law
enforcement agency with jurisdiction in the City.  The private patrol
service shall submit to the Board of Police Commissioners a color photograph
of the proposed vehicles showing compliance with this subsection.



 



   (f)   Reports to Police.  Every private patrol service operator and
every street patrol officer shall immediately make a report to the Police
Department of any felonies, high-grade misdemeanors or violation of federal
law which come to his attention. High-grade misdemeanors include Petty Theft,
Dangerous Weapons’ Control Laws, Traffic Manslaughter, Indecent Exposure,
Child Molesting, Contributing to the Delinquence of a Minor, Lewd Conduct,
and all other misdemeanor sex offenses. The private patrol service shall also
immediately notify the Police Department of any weapon discharge or private
person’s arrest made within the City, by any employee, officer, member, or
associate of the private patrol service.



 



   (g)   Employees.  The private patrol service will be responsible
for each street patrol officer to be registered with the State and to carry
proof thereof at all times while on duty.  A Street Patrol Officer in
connection with his duties, upon request by a law enforcement officer, shall
identify himself as a Street Patrol Officer and shall give his name and
employer’s name.  At no time shall a Street Patrol Officer conduct himself
by word or manner as to lead others to believe that he possesses the power to
enforce Traffic Regulations or to issue Traffic Citations.



 



   (h)   Authority to Make Rules and Regulations.  The Board of Police
Commissioners shall have the authority to make rules and regulations not
inconsistent with State law or this chapter concerning private patrol
services and street patrol officers.  Prior to any changes or additions to
such Board rules and regulations, the Board of Police Commissioners shall
give reasonable notice to all private patrol services registered with the
City of the proposed changes or additions.



 



   (i)   Permits; Nontransferable.  Permits issued under this article
are not transferable.  This section shall not be construed to prohibit the
owner of a private patrol service from selling, assigning or transferring
such service; however any new owner, transferee, or assignee shall be
required to qualify under this article before commencing operations or
carrying on business as a private patrol service.



 



   (j)   Suspension/Revocation.  Violation of any provision of this
ordinance, any of the rules promulgated by the Board of Police Commissioners,
or of any State or local law in connection with the operation of a Private
Patrol Service, may be cause for suspension and/or revocation of the permit
held by the Private Patrol Service.  The Board of Police Commissioners shall
notify the Private Patrol Service of the intent to suspend or revoke the
registration of any of its street patrol officers.



 



   (k)   Permits Not Exclusive.  Permits required by this article
shall be in addition to any license or permit required under any other
chapter of this code.



 



 



SEC. 52.37.1.  USE OF OFFICIAL POLICE TITLES BY PRIVATE AGENCIES – SIMILAR
SUBTERFUGES – PROHIBITED.



 



   (a)   “Chief Detectives,” “Chief of Detective Bureau.” No
person shall use the title “Chief of Detectives” or “Chief of Detective
Bureau” alone or in connection with any other term, phrase, symbol, initial
or language, in carrying on any private business, employment or activity.



 



   (b)   Other Police Titles. No person shall, in connection with any
private business, employment or activity, use the title “Chief of
Police,” “Police Chief,” “Detective” or any other title or
designation whatever calculated to indicate an official connection with the
Police Department of this city or with the police force of any other
government or government agency, unless accompanied by additional language
clearly displaying without the use of initials or symbols, the identity of
the private agency or employer on whose behalf the user of the title or
designation is acting or purporting to act.



 



   (c)   Police Operations. No person, other than a regular police
officer of the City of Los Angeles, shall, for any purpose whatsoever,
represent himself, of falsely represent another, to be a member of the Police
Department of this city, or use any sign, word, language or device calculated
to induce a false or mistaken belief that he is acting or purporting to act
on behalf of the Police Department of this city within the scope of any real
or purported duty thereof.



 



   (d)   Collections, etc. No person other than a regular police
officer of this city, acting within the scope and course of his official
duties, shall use any sign, badge, title or designation, or make any express
or implied representation, calculated to induce the belief that he is a
member of the police force of this city, or connected therewith in any way,
in connection with any activity directed toward the collection of any money
or debt, or the repossessing, recovering, or taking of anything of value, or
for any purpose of private gain whatsoever.



 



   (e)   Civil Immunities. No special police officer shall, by virtue
of any commission as such heretofore or hereafter issued under this chapter
or pursuant to any other law or ordinance, be deemed to be an officer, agent,
employee or representative of the City of Los Angeles while engaging in any
activity of any character whatsoever undertaken for private hire, profit or
reward, or while performing any act done in the course of his own business or
affairs, or while performing any act done or undertaken in connection with or
in furtherance of, any private employment, business or undertaking for which
such special officer is hired or engaged, nor shall any such commission be
construed to confer upon the holders any privilege or immunity not expressly
granted by this code, other than the authority to arrest for crime under Sec.
836 of the Penal Code, and the right to be armed as a peace officer, subject,
in both respects, to such rules and regulations of the Board of Police
Commissioners as may relate to special police officers.



 



   Any commission or appointment as special police officer which is
claimed to convey, expressly or by implication, any immunity inuring to the
benefit of the holder or any other person, contrary to any of the objects and
purposes of this section, shall be void, and its grant or issuance shall be
deemed to be in excess of the power and authority of the Board, whether
heretofore or hereafter made.



 



 



SEC.  52.42.  RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL.



 



   (a)   The statements, photographs and fingerprints hereinbefore
provided for shall not be open to inspection by the public, or by any person
other than a regularly employed peace or law enforcement officer. Any such
photograph, or duplicates thereof, may be exhibited to persons other than
peace officers of the City for the purpose of assisting in identifying
perpetrators of any crime. Copies of said statements, photographs and
fingerprints may be transmitted to the sheriff of any county of the State of
California, to the head of any organized police department of any
municipality in said state, or to the head of any department of the State of
California engaging in the enforcement of any criminal law of this state, or
to the head of any federal law enforcement agency, or to any sheriff or chief
of police of a municipality, or to the head of any other law-enforcement
agency of any state in any state or territory outside the State of
California, when request is made in writing by such sheriff or other head of
a law-enforcement agency asking for the record of a certain person named
therein, or for the record of a person whose photograph or fingerprints
reasonably correspond with Photographs or fingerprints submitted with such
request, and stating that such record is deemed necessary for the use of such
law enforcement officer or agency in or concerning the investigation of any
crime, or any person who is accused of committing a crime, or any crime which
is reported to have been committed, and further stating that the record will
be used only for such purpose.



 



   (b)   Any police officer or other employee of the Police Department
who discloses to any person any information contained in any statement
required to be filed under the provisions of Sections 52.38 to 52.43
inclusive, otherwise than in the regular course of his duties, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.



 



   (c)   Nothing contained in Sections 52.38 to 52.43 inclusive, shall
prevent the Police of Chief from furnishing to the sheriff of any county, the
Chief of Police of any municipality, or the head of any other law-enforcing
agency which maintains any system of registration of convicted persons copies
of the statements required to be filed under the provisions of Sections 52.38
to 52.43 inclusive, together with photographs and fingerprints of persons
making such statements when and if such sheriff, chief of police, or other
head of a law-enforcing agency furnishes to the Chief of Police of this City
copies of statements, photographs and fingerprints procured by him, and it is
hereby made the duty of such Chief of Police to arrange for the exchange of
such information.



 



   (d)   Any police officer or employee of the Police Department may,
any other provisions herein notwithstanding, furnish to persons other than
peace officers, photographs, fingerprints, descriptions and other data
relative to persons registered as convicted persons, as defined by Sec.
52.38(d)1 of this code, for the purpose of furnishing the information
required by Sec. 41.11.2 of this code, or for the purpose of securing and
effecting the enforcement of said section; and the furnishing of such
information, pictures or fingerprints shall be within the regular course of
his duties.



 



 



SEC. 52.42.1.  ARREST INFORMATION.



   (Added by Ord. No. 114,852, Eff. 12/6/59.)



 



   (a)   In the interest of the public health, safety, morals and
general welfare, the Board of Police Commissioners may make available to any
person possessing a valid press identification card, issued pursuant to the
provisions of Section 52.16 of this Code, the record of arrests, criminal
charges and dispositions thereof of any person, as contained in the records
of the Los Angeles Police Department, and it shall be deemed that the release
of such information to such person is in the interest of the public in the
due administration and enforcement of the law.



 



   (b)   Such information shall be furnished to such persons only upon
application therefor in writing, upon forms to be prescribed by the Board of
Police Commissioners, which forms shall include a certificate by the
applicant stating his reasons for requesting such information, the use to be
made of such information and a statement that the information sought is in
the interest of the public in the due administration and enforcement of the
law.



 



   (c)   Release of information obtained from sources other than the
statement required to be filed by Section 52.38 to 52.43 inclusive, of this
code, shall not be deemed to be in violation of Section 52.42 thereof.



 



 



SEC. 52.43.  FALSE STATEMENTS.



 



   (a)   No person required by any provision of Section 52.38 to 52.42
inclusive, to furnish a statement, shall in such statement give any false or
fictitious address or any address other than a true address or intended
address, or furnish in the making of any such report any false, untrue or
misleading information or statement, relating to any information required by
any of the provisions thereof to be made or furnished.



 



   (b)   Continuing Offense. The duty to furnish statements when and in
the manner provided by Sections 52.38 to 52.42 inclusive, is hereby declared
to be a continuing one, and for each day that any person required under the
provisions of Section 52.38 to 52.42 inclusive to furnish a statement fails
to do so, such failure shall constitute a separate offense; provided,
however, that no person may be convicted more than once on account of
violations occurring by reason of failure, on a series of days, to furnish
such statements; provided further, that nothing contained herein shall be
deemed to bar subsequent prosecutions for violations of the provisions of
this code occurring subsequent to a prior conviction or acquittal of a
violation thereof.



 



 



SEC. 52.44.  WILLFULLY LISTENING TO POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS’ PORTABLE
RADIO MESSAGES – PROHIBITED.



 



   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully listen by means of any
radio receiving device located in or upon any vehicle to any official message
which is being transmitted by the Police Department or Fire Department of the
City of Los Angeles or any law enforcement agency over a radio transmitting
station owned or operated by such city or agency. The provisions herein shall
not apply to any person to whom a permit to listen to such radio messages has
been issued in writing by the Chief of Police of the City of Los Angeles
after he determines that public interest will be served by the issuance of
such permit, nor shall the provisions of this section apply to any officer,
agent, or servant of any government agency or public utility, the performance
of whose duty as such officer, agent or servant, requires that he listen to
such messages.



 



 



SEC. 52.46.  SHORT WAVE RADIOS, USE OF.



 



   No person who intercepts, overhears or receives any message or
communication transmitted by any radio transmission station operating upon a
wave length or radio frequency assigned by the Federal Communication
Commission for use by any police or law enforcement department shall, for the
financial benefit of himself or another communicate such message or
communication to another or directly or indirectly use the information so
obtained.



 



 



SEC. 52.50.  POLICE DEPARTMENT – MAKING FALSE REPORTS TO.



 



   No person shall willfully make to the Police Department of the City any
false, misleading or unfounded report, for the purpose of interfering with
the operation of the Police Department or with the intention of misleading
any police officer.



 



   A false oral statement made upon the initiative of one who resorts to
the police department or member thereof for the specific purpose of having
some action taken with respect thereto is a violation of the foregoing
section.



   People v. Minler,(135 Cal. App. 2d Supp. P. 889.)



 



   See also People v. Smith. CRA 3242 (131 Cal. App. 2d Supp. P. 889.)



 



 



SEC. 52.51.  INTERFERENCE WITH POLICE ANIMALS.



 



   No person shall willfully, and in a manner not otherwise prohibited by
Penal Code Section 597, tease, harass, agitate, provoke, beat, kick, strike,
injure, or in any way interfere with, any dog, horse or any other animal
being used by any law enforcement officer in the performance of his or her
official duties.  (Added by Ord. No. 157,283, Eff. 1/7/83.)



 



 



SEC. 52.53.  GARAGES – RENTAL – REPORT TO POLICE.



 



   Persons owning, conducting, managing or operating any building, place
or premises other than a private garage, wherein any motor vehicle is parked
or stored by or for the public, shall make a written report to the Chief of
Police of each motor vehicle not the property of such person, which shall
have been parked or stored in such building, place or premises for a period
of seventy-two (72 hours continuously. Said written report shall be filed
with the police department, within twenty-four 24 hours from and after the
expiration of said seventy-two (72) hours, and contain:



 



   (a)   The name of the person making such report;



 



   (b)   The address of the building, place or premises where such
motor vehicle shall have been parked or stored for such seventy-two (72) hour
period;



 



   (c)   The name and address of the registered owner of such motor
vehicle as shown on the certificate of registration issued by the Division of
Motor Vehicles of the State of California, or if there be no such certificate
of registration in or on such vehicle, such fact shall be stated;



 



   (d)   A brief description of such motor vehicle, including the name
or make, the motor number and license number thereof as shown by the number
plates thereon, together with the name of the state issuing such license
plates.



 



 



SEC. 52.55.  POLICE DEPARTMENT RETENTION, USE, SALE OR DESTRUCTION OF
UNCLAIMED PROPERTY.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 151,354, Eff. 9/16/78)



 



   (a)   For purposes of this section:



 



   1.   “Unclaimed property” shall mean any and all property of
others in the possession of the Police Department and for which no claim or
demand has been made nor owner found.



 



   2.   The Property Division of the Police Department is designated as
the “stores agency” for purposes of retention, sale or destruction of
unclaimed property.



 



   (b)   (Amended by Ord. No. 166,322, Eff. 11/22/90.)  Unclaimed
property shall be held by the Police Department for a period of at least
three months before further disposition as herein provided, provided however
that bicycles may be disposed of as set forth in Subsection (c).  The Police
Department is hereby authorized to thereafter cause such unclaimed property
to be processed for public sale, retention or destruction as hereinafter
provided:



 



   1.   The property may be sold at public auction to the highest
bidder upon notice of sale given by the Chief of Police at least five days
before the time fixed therefor by publication at least once in a newspaper of
general circulation in the County of Los Angeles; or that such property is
needed and is suitable for public use, it need not be sold.  The stores
agency may retain the property for use of the Police Department in accordance
with Civil Code Section 2080.4 and approved procedures for regulation and use
thereof.  The procedures shall include a determination by the Department,
before the property is placed into service, that



 



   A.   expenditures required for its installation, operation, repair
and ongoing maintenance will not require further funding approval, or



 



   B.   placing the property into service will preclude the need for
acquisition of the same or similar property previously approved during the
City’s budget process.



 



   Identification of all such property retained shall be submitted with
the Department’s next annual budget request.



 



   2.   In the event such unclaimed property is neither sold nor
retained as above-provided, the stores agency may cause it to be summarily
destroyed if it is in a dilapidated, deteriorated, or unsafe condition, or
the possession thereof by the public is unlawful.



 



   (c)   Unclaimed bicycles may be disposed of in accordance with
Subsection (b) or, if the bicycle has a value less than $500 and remains
unclaimed for a period of at least 90 days, may be transferred pursuant to
Welfare and Institutions Code Section 217 to governmental and nonprofit
organizations described in said code section for use in programs or
activities designed to prevent juvenile delinquency.  Before transfer to a
governmental or nonprofit organization, the property owner, if known or
reasonably can be ascertained, shall be notified as described in said code. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 185,206, Eff. 11/22/17.)



 



 



 



ARTICLE 3
ANIMALS AND FOWLS



 




Editor’s note:  The Department of Animal Regulation and the Board of
Animal Regulation Commissioners were renamed “Department of Animal
Services” and “Board of Animal Services Commissioners”, respectively,
by Ord. No. 174,735, Eff. 9/13/02.




 



 



Section



53.00   Definitions.



53.01   Pound, Hours Open.



53.02   Issuing of Badges to Department – Department Members as Police
Officers.



53.02.1   Board, Duties of.



53.03   Inspections.



53.03.1   Minimum Age – Duties of Employees.



53.04   Unenclosed Premises, Impounding.



53.05   Impounding. Duty of Police.



53.06   Animals at Large.



53.06.2   Restraint of Dogs.



53.06.3   Trapping – Permit Required.



53.06.4   Certain Animals Declared to Be a Public Nuisance – Summary
Destruction Authorized.



53.06.5   Feeding of Non-domesticated Mammalian Predators Prohibited.



53.07   Animals on Unenclosed Premises.



53.08   Animals in Los Angeles River Bed.



53.09   Stray Animals.  Notice Required.



53.10   Permitting Animals to Go Without Care – Duty to Enter and Remove
Same.



53.11   Animals.  Impounding – Sale.



53.12   Animal Shelter Adoption Fee Schedule.



53.12.1   Uncared for Animals – Impounding.



53.12.2   Impoundment of Unaltered Dogs and Cats – Civil Penalties.



53.13   Redemption Fees.



53.14   Records of Impounded Animals.



53.15   Dog License Tax – Penalties.



53.15.1   Equine License Fee.



53.15.2   Breeding and Transfer of Dogs and Cats.



53.15.3   Dog License Fee.



53.15.4   Veterinarians and Others Authorized to Distribute Dog License
Applications or Sell Dog Licenses.



53.15.5   Electronic Animal Identification Device.



53.17   Licenses – What to State.



53.18   Record of Licenses.



53.18.5   Hearing Procedures and License Revocations.



53.19   Cat Tag – Issuance of.



53.21   Dog Tags – Wearing of and Registry.



53.22   Dog Tag – Must Be Official.



53.23   Dog Tags – Removal of.



53.24   Receipt – Certificate – Failure to Exhibit.



53.25   Collection – Depositing of.



53.26   License Taxes – Right to Sue for Recovery.



53.27   Transfer of Ownership; Notice Required.



53.28   Harboring of Unlicensed Dogs.



53.29   Female Dogs and Cats, Straying During Season.



53.30   Keeping of Diseased or Crippled Animals.



53.31   Public Spay and Neuter Clinic.



53.32   Animals – Disposal of.



53.33   Vicious Animals – Private Premises.



53.34   Animals at Large.



53.34.1   Menacing Dogs.



53.34.2   Impoundment – Biting or Attacking Animal.



53.34.3   Restricted Dog Permit.



53.34.4   Dangerous Animal – Procedures.



53.35   Animals – Transportation of.



53.36   Resisting Officers or Employees.



53.37   Dogs – Exemptions.



53.38   Wild Animals – Keeping – Permit.



53.39   Wild Animals – Power of Department Over.



53.40   Bull Fights.



53.41   Animals – Food Poisoning.



53.42   Animals, Sale of – as Novelties – on Streets.



53.43   Pigeons – Feeding – Restricted Area.



53.44   Veterinaries - Notices of Death of Animals.



53.45   Veterinaries - Retention of Dead Animals.



53.46   Wild Birds – Impounding – Crating.



53.47   Breeding Animals – Enclosures.



53.48   Song Birds – Killing.



53.49   Dogs - Dog Defecation to Be Removed by Owners.



53.50   Permits.



53.51   Vaccination of Dogs Required.



53.52   Exemptions.



53.53   Duty of Veterinarians Performing Vaccinations.



53.54   Vaccination Certificates, Proof of Sterilization and Other Proof
to Be Retained by Owner.



53.55   Dogs on Beaches Prohibited – Exception.



53.56   Imported Dogs.



53.57   Unlawful Possession – Certificates.



53.58   Rules and Regulations.



53.59   Animals – Distances – Separation from Dwelling.



53.60   Carrier and Homing Pigeons – Permits.



53.62   Animals; Burial of.



53.63   Barking Dog Noise.



53.64   Regulation of Sentry Dog Services.



53.65   Maiming, Injuring or Killing Animals During Performance.



53.66   Guard Dogs.



53.67   Animal Sacrifice.



53.68   Fees for Services to Subdividers.



53.69   Fees for Trap Rental.



53.70   Care and Maintenance of Dogs.



53.71   Roosters – Limit.



53.72   Declawing of Cats or Other Animals – Prohibition.



53.73   Sale of Commercially Bred Dogs, Cats and Rabbits in Pet Stores –
Prohibition.



53.74   Bullhooks – Prohibition on Use.



53.75   Prohibition to Manufacture, Sell, Distribute, Trade, Import, or
Export Fur.



 



 



SEC. 53.00.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   For the purpose of this article, the following words and phrases are
defined and shall be construed as hereinafter set out unless it shall be
apparent from the context that a different meaning is intended.



 



   “Animal” shall mean any animal, poultry, bird, reptile, fish or any
other dumb creature.



 



   “Board” shall mean the Board of Animal Services Commission unless
otherwise specifically designated.



 



   “Cat” shall mean any cat of either sex, of any age.



 



   "Cat Kennel" shall mean any lot, building, structure, enclosure or
premises where four or more cats at least four (4) months of age are kept or
maintained, with the exception of a pet shop.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,816,
Eff. 1/19/14.)



 



   “Department” shall mean the Department of Animal Services unless
otherwise specifically designated.



 



   “Dog” shall mean any dog of either sex, of any age.



 



   "Dog Kennel" shall mean any lot, building, structure, enclosure or
premises where four or more dogs at least four (4) months of age are kept or
maintained, with the exception of a pet shop.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,816,
Eff. 1/19/14.)



 



   “General Manager” shall mean General Manager of the Department.



 



   “Impounded” shall mean having been received into the custody of the
Municipal pound or into the custody of the Department or any authorized agent
or representative thereof.



 



   "Kennel" shall mean any lot, building, structure, enclosure or premises
where four or more dogs at least four (4) months of age are kept or
maintained, with the exception of a pet shop.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,816,
Eff. 1/19/14.)



 



   "Pet Shop" or "Pet Store" shall mean any retail or commercial
establishment, store or department of any store, or any place of business
open to the public where dogs, cats, rabbits, monkeys, birds, reptiles or any
other animals are kept and offered for adoption or sale, for hire, or sold,
irrespective of the age of the animals, provided that the facility operates
pursuant to a pet shop permit issued by the Department, and is not used for
the breeding of dogs, cats or rabbits or the commercial boarding of
animals.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,816, Eff. 1/19/14.)



 



   “Unlicensed Dog” shall mean any dog for which the license for the
current year has not been paid or whose license has been revoked by the
Department. (Amended by Ord. No. 162,538, Eff. 8/27/87.)



 



   “Vaccination” or “Vaccination Against Rabies”, shall mean
inoculation of a dog with a vaccine approved by and in a manner prescribed by
the State Department of Public Health. (Amended by Ord. No. 162,538, Eff.
8/27/87.)



 



   “Zoo” shall mean any place where a collection of wild animals, or
wild and domesticated animals, are kept for exhibition or for view by the
public.



 



   The Department of Animal Services (formerly, “Department of Animal
Regulation”) has the power and duty to enforce all ordinances of the City
of Los Angeles and penal laws of the State relative to the care and
impoundment of dumb animals, for the prevention of cruelty to animals, and to
enforce ordinances relative to the payment of money for licenses for animals
within the City.



 



   The Department is no longer included in the Charter.  Its powers and
duties may be changed or eliminated by ordinance.  Charter § 115.



 



 



SEC. 53.01.  POUND, HOURS OPEN.



 



   The public pound of this City, including district animal shelters,
shall be kept open to the public for the transaction of business during such
hours and on such days as shall be established by the General Manager.
(Amended by Ord. No. 152,811, Eff. 10/1/79.)



 



 



SEC. 53.02.  ISSUING OF BADGES TO DEPARTMENT – DEPARTMENT MEMBERS AS
POLICE OFFICERS.



 



   (a)   In the performance of his duties, the General Manager, his 
Executive Officer, and each district supervisor, assistant district
supervisor, license inspector and animal control officer, shall have the
power, authority and immunity of a public officer and employee as set forth
in Penal Code Section 836.5 to make arrests without a warrant whenever he has
reasonable cause to believe that the person to be arrested has committed a
misdemeanor in his presence which is a violation of this article, or of any
ordinance of the City of Los Angeles or penal law of this State relating to
the care, treatment and impounding of animals.  (Amended by Ord. No.
140,252, Eff. 4/16/70.



 



   (b)   Badges – Description of. Each such person while performing
his respective duties shall wear a metallic badge, of a size and design to be
determined as provided in Sec. 52.32 of this Code. (Amended by Ord. No.
133,983, Eff. 4/10/67.)



 



   (c)   (Added by Ord. No. 140,252, Eff. 4/16/70.) Animal control
officers when acting in the course and scope of their employment shall be and
are hereby authorized to carry on their persons or in City vehicles loaded
firearms or weapons of a type and caliber approved by the General Manager for
such use.



 



   Each animal control officer shall receive initial and recurrent 
training in the use of any type of firearm or weapon approved for use by the
General Manager, in order to establish and assure satisfactory proficiency in
the use of such weapons commensurate with the safety and welfare of the
general public.



 



 



SEC. 53.02.1.  BOARD, DUTIES OF.



 



   Upon request, the Board shall consult with and provide advice to the
General Manager on any matter relating to or affecting the operation of the
Department. (Added by Ord. No. 133,983, Eff. 4/10/67.)



 



 



SEC. 53.03.  INSPECTIONS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 136,242, Eff. 4/19/68.)



 



   (a)   Whenever it is necessary to make an inspection to enforce any
of the provisions of or perform any duty imposed by this Code or other
applicable law, or whenever the General Manager or his authorized
representative has reasonable cause to believe that there exists in any
building or upon any premises any violation of the provisions of this article
or other applicable law, the General Manager or his authorized representative
is hereby authorized to enter such property at any reasonable time and to
inspect the same and perform any duty imposed upon the General Manager by
this Code or other applicable law; provided that:



 



   (1)   If such property be occupied, he shall first present proper
credentials to the occupant and request entry explaining his reason therefor;
and



 



   (2)   If such property be unoccupied, he shall first make a
reasonable effort to locate the owner or other persons having charge or
control of the property and request entry, explaining his reasons therefor.
If such entry is refused or cannot be obtained because the owner or other
person having charge or control of the property cannot be found after due
diligence, the General Manager or his authorized representative shall have
recourse to every remedy provided by law to secure lawful entry and inspect
the property.



 



   (b)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the General Manager or his
authorized representative has reasonable cause to believe that the keeping or
the maintaining of any animal is so hazardous, unsafe or dangerous as to
require immediate inspection to safeguard the animal or the public health or
safety, he shall have the right immediately to enter and inspect such
property, and may use any reasonable means required to effect such entry and
make such inspection, whether such property be occupied or unoccupied and
whether or not permission to inspect has been obtained. If the property be
occupied, he shall first present proper credentials to the occupant and
demand entry, explaining his reasons therefor and purpose of his inspection.



 



   (c)   No person shall fail or refuse, after proper demand has been
made upon him as provided in Subsection (b), of this section to permit the
General Manager or his authorized representative to make any inspection
provided for by subsection (b) of this section. Any person violating this
subsection shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.



 



   (d)   The permittee of any permit issued pursuant to this article,
by accepting such permit, does thereby consent and agree to the entry upon
the premises described in the permit by the General Manager or his authorized
representative for the purpose of conducting such inspections as are required
by this article or other applicable law.



 



 



SEC. 53.03.1.  MINIMUM AGE – DUTIES OF EMPLOYEES.



 



   In addition to his duties as otherwise provided, each employee of the
Department is hereby given the power and duty of collecting dog license fees.



 



   Persons under the age of twenty-one (21) years may be appointed to a
position within said Department for the purpose of performing clerical,
stenographic or kennel duties. All other positions shall be filled by persons
over the age of twenty-one (21) years.



 



 



SEC. 53.04.  UNENCLOSED PREMISES, IMPOUNDING.



 



   The General Manager and the authorized employees of the Department and
all police officers of this City are hereby given the power and authority,
and it is declared to be their duty, to go upon unenclosed lots or lands for
the purpose of taking up and impounding any animal found running at large
thereon or staked, herded, or grazed thereon, contrary to the provisions of
this article.



 



 



SEC. 53.05.  IMPOUNDING. DUTY OF POLICE.



 



   It shall be the duty of the General Manager or his authorized
representatives to take up and impound in the City pound, and it shall be the
duty of members of the Police Department on duty during the hours when the
Municipal Pound is open, to take up and immediately deliver to the Department
those animals which are authorized and directed to be taken up and impounded
by this article or which are found or kept contrary to the provisions of this
article.



 



 



SEC. 53.06.  ANIMALS AT LARGE.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 160,401, Eff. 11/1/85.)



 



   No person owning or having possession, charge, custody or control of
any animal, except cats which are not in heat or season, shall cause, permit
or allow the animal to stray, run, or in any manner to be at large in or upon
any public street, sidewalk or park, except as otherwise expressly provided
in section 63.44 of this Code, or in the bed of the Los Angeles River or upon
any unenclosed lot or land.



 



   A municipality may, under its police power, enact Ordinances 
prohibiting animals from running at large.



   Amyx J. Tabor C 1863 23 C 370.



 



 



SEC. 53.06.2.  RESTRAINT OF DOGS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 160,401, Eff. 11/1/85.)



 



   (a)   Every person owning or having charge, care, custody or control
of any dog shall keep such dog exclusively upon his own premises provided,
however, that such dog may be off such premises if it be under the control of
a competent person and restrained by a substantial chain or leash not
exceeding six feet in length, or under the control of a competent person on a
dog exercise or training area established pursuant to section 63.44 of this
Code.



 



   (b)   (Deleted by Ord. No. 183,271, Eff. 11/14/14.)



 



   This section is not unconstitutional and is substantially and
fundamentally different from Ordinance No. 55,665.



   People v. Barnsdall 1945, CR A 2103.



 



   “Whatever may be said about the affection which mankind has for a
faithful companion, modern city conditions no longer permit dogs to run at
large.”



   Brotemarkel v. Snyder 1950, 99 CAC 388, 390.



 



 



SEC. 53.06.3.  TRAPPING – PERMIT REQUIRED.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 170,644, Eff. 9/14/95.)



 



   (a)   No person shall set, or cause to be set, any trap to catch any
animal, other than rats, mice, pocket gophers, ground squirrels and moles,
without having first obtained a permit therefor from the Department prior to
the setting of any such trap.



 



   (b)   The Department shall charge and collect for issuance of a
permit to trap a coyote a fee of $200.00.



 



   (c)   The Department shall establish conditions which the applicant
for a permit to trap a coyote must satisfy prior to the issuance of any such
permit.  If the General Manager or the General Manager’s designee
determines that the applicant has satisfied the conditions, then the
Department shall issue a permit to trap a coyote.  The Department shall
further ensure that those conditions will be maintained and that the
permittee shall inform neighboring residents, located within a distance
established by the Department, that coyote trapping will be occurring in
their area.



 



   (d)   No person shall set, or cause to be set, any snare, body
gripping trap, body crushing trap, deadfall trap, leg hold trap, or any trap
or snare that captures an animal other than rats, mice, pocket gophers,
ground squirrels and moles, by gripping or snaring any part of the animal
including its body, head, neck or limb, or that maims or causes the inhumane
death or suffering of any animal.  (Added by Ord. No. 183,001, Eff. 5/28/14.)



 



   (e)   The Department shall promulgate rules and regulations which
are reasonably necessary to minimize the suffering of animals trapped in
humane traps such as box, culvert or cage traps.  These rules and
regulations may include the placement of the traps and visitation schedules,
identification and contact information for the trap, the type and use of
permissible bait, and the treatment of the trapped animals.  (Added by Ord.
No. 183,001, Eff. 5/28/14.)



 



 



SEC. 53.06.4.  CERTAIN ANIMALS DECLARED TO BE A PUBLIC NUISANCE – SUMMARY
DESTRUCTION AUTHORIZED.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 133,983, Eff. 4/10/67.)



 



   When any of the following described animals are found to be at large
upon any public property, street, highway or alley, or are found to be at
large upon private property and molesting, injuring, damaging or threatening
to injure or damage any persons or property such animals may be taken up by
the General Manager or his authorized representative and summarily destroyed:
Badgers, bobcats, cougars, coyotes, opossums, foxes, raccoons, poisonous
reptiles, skunks, or weasels.



 



 



SEC. 53.06.5.  FEEDING OF NON-DOMESTICATED MAMMALIAN PREDATORS PROHIBITED.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 175,383, Eff. 9/14/03.)



 



   (a)   No person shall feed or in any manner provide food or cause to
be fed any non-domesticated mammalian predator including, but not limited to,
coyotes, foxes, possums, raccoons and skunks.



 



   (b)   This section shall not apply to any person who has legal
possession of any non-domesticated mammalian predator and who has a permit
from the State Department of Fish and Game to keep the animal.  This section
shall not apply to any person who provides food or water to any
non-domesticated mammalian predator while the animal is injured, trapped or
unweaned provided that the person notifies the State Department of Fish and
Game within 48 hours of commencing the care.



 



   (c)   Any person violating this subsection shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than $1,000.00 or by
imprisonment in the County Jail for a period not more than six months, or by
both a fine and imprisonment.



 



 



SEC. 53.07.  ANIMALS ON UNENCLOSED PREMISES.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 150,337, Eff. 1/1/78.)



 



   No person shall stake out, herd or graze any animal upon any unenclosed
lot or land in any manner so that said animal may be or go beyond the
boundary of such lot or land.



 



 



SEC. 53.08.  ANIMALS IN LOS ANGELES RIVER BED.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 150,337, Eff. 1/1/78.)



 



   No person shall stake out, herd or graze any animal in or upon the bed
of the Los Angeles River unless such animal is under the immediate control of
some person over the age of fifteen (15) years who is at all times within
fifty (50) feet of the animal. Any horse, mule, ass or ox which is harnessed
or saddled, at the time, in the actual custody and control of some person is
exempted from the operation of this section.



 



 



SEC. 53.09.  STRAY ANIMALS. NOTICE REQUIRED.



 



   (a)   (Amended by Ord. No. 133,983, Eff. 4/10/67.)  Any person
finding at any time any stray domestic animal or any such animal found
running at large contrary to the provisions of this article may take up such
animal; provided, however, that persons taking up such animal shall, within
four hours thereafter, or within two hours thereafter if such animal is
attached or hitched to a vehicle, give notice to the Department or to some
police officer, of the fact that he has such animal in his possession, and
shall furnish thereto a description of such animal and a statement of the
place where he found and where he has confined the animal.



 



   In case such notice is given to any police officer, such officer shall
immediately notify the Department and shall furnish all the information which
has been obtained regarding such animal.



 



   If the taking up of such animal occurs at a time when the Public Pound
is not open for the transaction of business, the notice required herein shall
be made to the Department within the time herein required after such pound is
again open for business.



 



   (b)   Any person taking up any such stray animal found running at
large or contrary to the provisions of this article shall surrender such
animal to the General Manager of the Department or his duly authorized
representative upon demand thereof.



 



   (c)   No person taking up any animal shall fail or neglect to give
notice thereof as required by this section or fail or refuse to surrender
such animal to the General Manager or his duly authorized representative upon
demand therefor.



 



   (d)   If the animal is a stray dog that is not wearing a license tag
or a stray cat, and the person finding the animal wishes to provide the
animal with home care, the person shall comply with the following within the
first four hours of finding the animal:  (Added by Ord. No. 186,287, Eff.
10/8/19.)



 



   1.   Notify the nearest City animal shelter that the animal is in
their possession and provide a description of the animal, the location where
the animal was found, the location where the animal will be maintained, as
well as the person's name, address, and contact information.



 



   2.   Note and maintain the animal ID number from the Department to
be used in all future communications.



 



   3.   Provide two or more photographs (of different poses and at
least one head shot) of the animal to the Department suitable for posting on
the Department's website.



 



   4.   Transport the animal to a veterinarian or to the nearest animal
shelter if the animal requires timely medical care.



 



   (e)   Within the first 24 hours of finding the animal, the person
finding the stray dog or cat shall comply with the following:  (Added by
Ord. No. 186,287, Eff. 10/8/19.)



 



   1.   Transport the animal to one of the City animal shelters for a
microchip scan and veterinary care, or bring the animal to a licensed
California veterinarian at the finder's own expense for a microchip scan and
veterinary care.



 



   2.   Provide the Department with a record of the microchip scan and
the veterinarian's diagnosis, treatment, and prognosis.



 



   3.   Make and distribute posters with the animal's photo in a
two-block radius of the location where the animal was found and include the
finder's contact information.



 



   4.   Complete the Department's form foster care agreement and submit
it to the Department in person, by fax, or electronically.  The Department's
form foster care agreement shall include an agreement by the person to accept
all legal and financial liability for the animal.



 



   (f)   In addition to the requirements in Subsections (d) and (e)
above, the person finding the stray dog or cat shall comply with the
following:  (Added by Ord. No. 186,287, Eff. 10/8/19.)



 



   1.   Agree to maintain the animal at the identified location and
notify the Department within 12 hours of any change to the location where the
animal is kept.



 



   2.   Immediately notify the Department if the animal is lost,
stolen, or has attacked, bitten, or injured any person or other animal.



 



   3.   If the animal is returned to its lawful owner, immediately
notify the Department with the name, address, and contact information of the
person to whom the animal was released.



 



   4.   After 30 days, bring the dog or cat into the nearest City
animal shelter and either surrender the animal to the Department or complete
the process to adopt the animal, including having the animal vaccinated and
sterilized.  If the found animal is a dog, adoption also will require the
adopter to license the dog.  The Department shall waive the adoption fee for
any animal adopted pursuant to this section.



 



 



SEC. 53.10.  PERMITTING ANIMALS TO GO WITHOUT CARE – DUTY TO ENTER AND
REMOVE SAME.



 



   (a)   Whenever animals are kept within any building or on any
premises without food, water or proper care and attention, it shall be the
duty of any departmental employee to enter said building or premises to take
possession of and remove said animals so abandoned or neglected. Such entry
shall be effected in accordance with Section 53.03 of this article. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 136,242, Eff. 4/19/68.)



 



   (b)   Every person maintaining a commercial building, structure or
premises, where animals are kept for commercial purposes, shall cause a
notice, framed and enclosed under glass, containing the names, addresses and
telephone numbers of persons to be notified during any hour of the day or
night who will proceed immediately to the location so as to permit entry to
the premises by representatives of the Department, to be posted on the
premises near the entrance, said notice to be in such a position as to be
legible from the sidewalk or ground level adjacent to the building. (Amended
by Ord. No. 150,337, Eff. 1/1/78.)



 



 



SEC. 53.11.  ANIMALS. IMPOUNDING – SALE.



 



   (a)   The Department shall hold any stray animal, including any
horse, mule, burro, cattle, goat, sheep and other live stock, except dogs,
cats, rabbits, birds, poultry, or any other miscellaneous stray animals,
impounded under the provisions of this article for a period of three (3) days
during which time the owner of such animal, if known, shall be notified,
after which time said animal may be sold by an officer of the Department as
follows: Written or printed notice of sale at public auction, stating the
time and place of sale and containing a description of the animal to be sold,
must be posted for five (5) days on the bulletin boards of three (3) public
buildings, namely: One (1) at the Public Pound; one (1) at the City Hall, and
one (1) at the Central Police Station;



 



   (b)   In the case of dogs, the Department of Animal Services shall
hold such animal for a period of one (1) day after the impounding of said
animal, during which time the owner of said animal, if known, shall be
notified, after which time said animal may be sold by an officer of the
Department in the same manner as provided in this section for the sale of
other animals except that notice of sale need be posted only two (2) days in
the places named in this section. The purchaser of such dog shall procure the
required license for the current year.



 



   (c)   Cats, rabbits, birds, poultry, and other animals not
hereinabove mentioned shall be disposed of as in the case of dogs except that
no license fee shall be charged.



 



   (d)   In addition to the posting of any notice of impounding or of
the sale of any dog or other animal as hereinbefore provided, said General
Manager is hereby authorized, whenever the same shall, in the judgment of the
General Manager, be expedient or proper, to publish a notice in any newspaper
of general circulation published in this City containing the same information
as the notice of sale as above provided.



 



   (e)   If any animal is not redeemed or sold, the General Manager of
the Department may continue to hold for subsequent sale said animal in
accordance with the terms as hereinbefore set forth, or order the destruction
of such animal. Said General Manager or other duly authorized representative
of the Department shall execute a bill of sale to the purchaser of any animal
sold and thereupon the title to such animal shall be vested in such purchaser.



 



   (f)   When any animal is sold under the provisions of this Article,
from the proceeds of such sale shall be deducted the regular pound fee, and,
in the case of livestock, the cost of care and feed of such animal, and in
the case of dogs, the license for the current year. Any sum of money which
remains over and above said fees may be claimed by the owner of said animal
so sold, upon satisfactory proof of ownership being made to the Department
within sixty (60) days from the date of sale, provided, however, that the
owner did not voluntarily surrender said animal to the Department. (Amended
by Ord. No. 150,337, Eff. 1/1/78.)



 



   (g)   Whenever any dog has been impounded as in this section
provided, and the owner thereof has not redeemed the same within the time for
such redemption prescribed by this article, and after notice has been posted
on the bulletin boards of three public buildings as in this ordinance
prescribed of the time and place of the sale of said dog, and when the owner
of said dog has not appeared at said sale as so noticed, the Department of
Animal Services without offering said dog for sale at public auction, is
hereby authorized, upon the request of any of the armed forces of the United
States to deliver the dog to said armed forces of the United States without
any cost, charge, fee or expense whatsoever, and to execute a bill of sale
for said dog to said armed force or forces.



 



   (h)   (None)



 



   (i)   Any purchaser of a dog or cat may within ten (10) days after
such purchase exchange such dog or cat if said animal has been examined by a
veterinarian or by an authorized departmental representative and determined
to be physically or otherwise unsuitable for placement. If the charges for
the substituted dog or cat are greater than the amount paid for the original,
the purchaser shall pay the difference. No refund shall be made if the price
of the substituted dog or cat is less than the amount paid for the original.
An exchange must be consummated within 31 calendar days from the original
purchase date and no part of the purchase price shall be refunded even if a
purchaser is unable to make satisfactory exchange within the prescribed
period.  (Added by Ord. No. 137,182, Eff. 10/7/68.)



 



   (j)   Any person adopting an impounded dog of any age that has not
been spayed or neutered due to a medical condition as determined by the
Department shall in addition to and consistent with any other charges imposed
by this Article, pay a sterilization deposit and a license tax and fee equal
to that for a spayed or neutered dog, and enter into an agreement with the
Department to spay or neuter the dog as soon as medically feasible and
provide periodic updates and proof of spay/neuter to the Department as
required by the agreement.  The license shall not be valid until such
satisfactory proof of spay or neuter is received by the Department.  (Added
by Ord. No. 181,882, Eff. 10/30/11.)



 



   (k)   (None)



 



   (l)   Release by Department.  (Added by Ord. No. 106,995, Eff.
3/24/56.)



 



   1.   Vaccinated Dog. An impounded dog that has been vaccinated
against rabies or exempted therefrom by an exemption certificate as provided
in this article may be released to the owner or other person desiring to
possess the dog upon the payment of the fees and license tax required by this
article.



 



   2.   Unvaccinated Dog – Purchaser.  Any person desiring to
purchase an impounded unvaccinated dog, not previously owned by said person,
must pay the fees and license tax required by this article and furnish a
signed statement in compliance with Sec. 53.52 hereof or comply with the
conditions of subdivision 3 hereof.



 



   3.   Conditional Release of Unvaccinated Dog to Owner.  Every
person receiving a dog from the Department pursuant to this subdivision shall
comply with all of the conditions prescribed herein. An impounded dog that
has not been vaccinated against rabies or exempted therefrom by an exemption
certificate as provided in this article may be released by the Department to
the owner of the dog on condition that such owner:



 



   (i)   Pay the fees and license tax required by this article; and



 



   (ii)   Furnish to the Department at the time of release his signed
statement that he will have the dog vaccinated within 10 days;



 



   (iii)   Have the dog vaccinated for rabies within 10 days; and



 



   (iv)   Exhibit a certificate of vaccination to the Department within
10 days at which time the license will be issued.



 



   (m)   No person shall make a false or misleading statement or
representation regarding  the ownership or right to custody or control of an
animal  for  which  a permit or license is required, or regarding the
ownership of an animal redeemed from, turned over to, impounded by or coming
under the jurisdiction of the Department pursuant to this article.



 



   (n)   The General Manager or his authorized representative may
immunize any impounded dog or cat against common diseases.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 149,942, Eff. 8/19/77.)



 



   (o)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Article, the Board
of Animal Services Commissioners, subject to the approval of the City
Council, shall establish a calendar of specific adoption events and certain
time periods within a fiscal or calendar year during which the General
Manager may reduce the fees listed in Section 53.12(a) by up to 50%, and may
reduce or waive the fees for an electronic animal identification device
(microchip) established pursuant to Section 53.15.5, in order to encourage
and promote pet adoptions.  (Amended by Ord. No. 180,697, Eff. 6/26/09.)



 



   (p)   (Amended by Ord. No. 180,697, Eff. 6/26/09.)  Subject to the
approval of the Board of Animal Services, the General Manager may waive all
or any portion of the fees listed in Section 53.12(a) and all or any portion
of the electronic animal identification device (microchip) fees established
pursuant to Section 53.15.5 upon the release of any animal which has been
held by the Department for the legal holding period plus at least one
additional day, to a non-profit humane or rescue organization that meets the
eligibility criteria of a program established by the Board of Animal Services
Commissioners designed to increase adoptions by partnering with non-profit
humane or rescue organizations, when  the organization enters into an
agreement with the Department to comply with the program requirements.  The
designation of an animal as releasable shall be in accordance with the
Department's policies concerning the adoption of such animals.  The Board
shall adopt guidelines for fee waivers by the Department, taking into account
an animal's adoptability and the availability of shelter space.  A fee
waiver will be made only upon the condition that any animal so released may
not be sold by the receiving organization but may be adopted out to a member
of the public for an adoption fee which does not exceed the organization's
aggregate cost recovery.  The organizations receiving fee waivers may be
audited annually by the City.



 



   For the purposes of this section, rescue and humane organizations are
defined as California non-profit corporations that are exempt from taxation
under Internal Revenue Code section 501(c)(3), participate in early age
spay/neuter of animals, comply with all State and local laws regarding the
humane care and treatment of animals, and in addition, whose mission is in
whole or in part the rescue and placement of companion animals including but
not limited to dogs, cats, rabbits, gerbils, hamsters, birds, equine animals,
farm animals or reptiles, and/or the trapping, neutering and returning of
feral cats.



 



   (q)   The General Manager may waive all or any portion of the fees,
including license taxes and fees, upon the release of any animal which has
been held by the Department for the legal holding period to another municipal
or county animal control agency, a Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals (SPCA), or to a local animal control agency or entity responsible for
enforcing animal-related laws for one or more municipalities or counties. 
The designation of an animal as releasable shall be in accordance with the
Department's policies concerning the adoption of such animals.  Societies
for the prevention of cruelty to animals are California non-profit
corporations that perform humane services and are incorporated under the
provisions of California Corporations Code Section 10400 and the Non-profit
Public Benefit Corporation Law in Part 2 of the California Corporations Code,
beginning at Section 5110.  (Added by Ord. No. 180,697, Eff. 6/26/09.)



 



 



SEC. 53.12.  ANIMAL SHELTER ADOPTION FEE SCHEDULE.



   (Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 180,697, Eff. 6/26/09.)



 



   (a)   The Department shall charge and collect fees of the types and
in the amounts set forth in this section, or as revised in the manner set
forth in this section, to recover the costs incurred by the City in
connection with animals adopted or redeemed from City animal shelters.  From
time to time the Board of Animal Services Commissioners shall determine the
verifiable total costs incurred by the City in connection with animal
impoundment and adoption, and develop and recommend to the City Council for
approval, a revised fee schedule for animals adopted or redeemed from the
animal shelters, including those adopted through special programs.  Unless
revised as set forth herein, the Department shall charge and collect the
following fees:  (Amended by Ord. No. 185,537, Eff. 6/21/18.)



 



   1.   Spay or neuter, dog, cat or rabbit.....$40.00



 



   2.   For each puppy (4 months and under) adopted.....$150.00



 



   3.   For each dog adopted.....$102.00



 



   4.   For each dog redeemed.....$47.00



 



   5.   For each kitten (4 months and under) adopted.....$50.00



 



   6.   For each cat adopted.....$25.00



 



   7.   For each cat redeemed.....$21.00



 



   8.   For each dog redeemed, 2nd occurrence.....$25.00 additional



 



   9.   For each dog redeemed, 3rd occurrence or more.....$50.00
additional



 



   10.   For each cat redeemed, 2nd occurrence.....$13.00 additional



 



   11.   For each cat redeemed, 3rd occurrence or more.....$26.00
additional



 



   12.   For each equine animal adopted or redeemed.....$325.00



 



   13.   For each sheep, swine, goat or other animal adopted or
redeemed.....$26.00



 



   14.   For each small pet, reptile, poultry or bird adopted or
redeemed.....$17.00



 



   15.   For each exotic bird adopted.....$250.00



 



   16.   For each exotic bird redeemed.....$75.00



 



   17.   For each rabbit adopted.....$71.00



 



   18.   For each rabbit redeemed.....$16.00



 



   19.   Relinquishment fee for a dog.....Donation only



 



   20.   Relinquishment fee, including pickup, for a dog.....$59.00



 



   21.   Relinquishment fee for a cat.....Donation only



 



   22.   Relinquishment fee, including pickup, for a cat.....$56.00



 



   23.   Relinquishment fee for a rabbit.....Donation only



 



   24.   Relinquishment fee for an equine animal.....$237.00



 



   25.   Relinquishment fee, including pickup, for an equine
animal.....$333.00



 



   26.   Relinquishment fee for a small animal.....Donation only



 



   27.   Relinquishment fee for other animals.....Donation only



 



   28.   Relinquishment fee, including pickup, for other
animals.....$55.00



 



   For feeding and caring for an animal held for other than adoption or
redemption, the Department may charge a fee for the reasonable cost of
feeding and caring for the animal.  In addition to the above fees, the
Department shall charge and collect fees for implanting a microchip and for
spay and neuter and other charges as provided in this article.  For each
dog, cat or rabbit adopted, the above fee includes the cost of a microchip
and sterilization.  In the case of a dog, the adoption fee may be increased
by an additional amount equal to the cost of a license for an altered dog.



 



   (b)   No fees whatsoever shall be charged or collected for or on
account of any animal which has been unlawfully taken up or impounded, and
any such animal shall be immediately delivered upon demand therefore to the
owner or person entitled to the custody thereof.



 



   (c)   For veterinary services furnished to animals by the Department:




   1.   If furnished by a private veterinarian at the request of the
Department, the fee to be charged and collected shall be the total of the
actual bill to the Department plus $2.00 for Department administrative
expenses, or such other reasonable fee as established in the manner set forth
in Subsection (a) above.



 



   2.   If furnished by a City veterinarian, the fees shall be charged
and collected pursuant to a fee schedule to be established by the General
Manager.



 



   Said fee schedule shall take into account the reasonable expense of
supplying the services including such factors as direct costs of the services
and department overhead.



 



   (d)   Department shall not charge and collect a fee for each dog or
cat redeemed by the owner who is a "disabled" individual or is 62 years of
age or older provided that the combined adjusted gross income of all members
of the household in which such individual resides was less than the "very low
income" limitations for residents of the City of Los Angeles, as determined
by the United States Housing Act of 1937, as amended, using the figure in
effect on the preceding first day of April and published by the United States
Department of Housing and Urban Development.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,268,
Eff. 9/26/10.)



 



   (e)   Department shall not charge and collect a fee for each animal,
or litter under four months old, which is impounded, other than an animal
suspected of rabies which is impounded for the purpose of quarantine,
provided that the combined adjusted gross income of all members of the
household in which the owner resides is less than the "very low income"
limitation for persons residing in the City of Los Angeles, as determined by
the United States Housing Act of 1937, as amended, using the figure in effect
on the preceding first day of April and published by the United States
Department of Housing and Urban Development.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,268,
Eff. 9/26/10.)



 



   (f)   For purposes of this section, an individual shall be
considered to be "disabled" if he or she meets the definitions promulgated
from time to time pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act
and/or by the United States Department of Labor.  (Amended by Ord. No.
181,268, Eff. 9/26/10.)



 



   (g)   All of the proceeds from the fee set forth in Subsection (a)
for each rabbit adopted or redeemed plus the proceeds from the spay or neuter
fee as established in this Article, shall be deposited into the Animal
Sterilization Fund, up to an amount of $40.00 per rabbit.



 



   (h)   The General Manager may reduce the fees listed  in Section
53.12(a) by up to 50%, and reduce or waive the fees for an electronic animal
identification device (microchip) for a second or subsequent animal adopted
along with an animal whose adoption fees were paid for in full where the
animals have bonded with each other.



 



   (i)   The Department may reduce the  fees listed in Section
53.12(a) by up to 50%, and reduce or waive the fees for an electronic animal
identification device (microchip), for any impounded animal that is seven
years of age or older, if adopted by an individual 62 years of age or older
who will own and maintain that animal.



 



 



SEC. 53.12.1.  UNCARED FOR ANIMALS – IMPOUNDING.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 170,754, Eff. 12/14/95.)



 



   Whenever the Department finds that any animal is or will be without
proper care because of injury, illness, incarceration or other involuntary
absence of the person responsible for the care of such animal, the Department
may impound such animal until it is reclaimed by its owner or the owner’s
agent.  The owner, or his or her agent, must pay the pound fees prescribed
by Section 53.12 prior to the release of such animals by the Department. 
Any animal which has been impounded and not reclaimed within thirty days may
be disposed of by the Department pursuant to Section 53.11.



 



 



SEC. 53.12.2  IMPOUNDMENT OF UNALTERED DOGS AND CATS – CIVIL PENALTIES.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 185,537, Eff. 6/21/18.)



 



   The owner of a nonspayed or unneutered dog or cat that is impounded by
the Department shall be assessed a civil penalty of $35.00 on the first
occurrence, $70.00 on the second occurrence and $150.00 for the third or
subsequent occurrence for each dog and cat so impounded.



 



 



SEC. 53.13.  REDEMPTION FEES.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 181,882, Eff. 10/30/11.)



 



   (a)   The owner or person entitled to the custody of any animal
taken up and impounded under the provisions of this Article, may, at any time
before the sale or disposal thereof as provided in this Article, redeem such
animal by paying the Department the fees, charges, and, in the case of dogs
which are unlicensed, by paying in addition thereto, the license tax and fee
prescribed by this Article.



 



   (b)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Article, a person
who has relinquished a stray dog or cat to the Department may, until one hour
after public operating hours begin on the first day the animal becomes
available for sale and not thereafter, redeem such animal by paying to the
Department the fees, charges, and, in case of dogs which are unlicensed, by
paying in addition thereto, the license tax and fee prescribed by this
Article.



 



 



SEC. 53.14.  RECORDS OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.



 



   The department shall keep a record of each animal impounded by it, the
date of receipt of such animals, the date and manner of its disposal, and if
redeemed, reclaimed, or sold, the name of the person by whom redeemed,
reclaimed, or purchased, the address of such person, and the amounts of all
fees received or collected for or because of the impounding, reclaiming, or
purchasing thereof, together with the number of any tag and the date of any
license exhibited or issued upon the redemption or sale of any such animal.



 



 



SEC. 53.15.  DOG LICENSE TAX – PENALTIES.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 157,035, Eff. 10/4/82.)



 



   (a)   (Amended by Ord. No. 181,882, Eff. 10/30/11.)  Any person
owning or having custody or control of any dog shall pay a license tax of
$8.50 for each dog over the age of four months.  For spayed females or
neutered male dogs, or any dog certified by a licensed veterinarian to be
incapable of breeding or being bred, the license tax shall be $3.50.  Such
license tax shall not apply to any dog kept or maintained exclusively in any
licensed dog kennel.



 



   The license tax imposed hereunder shall be due and payable by the owner
or custodian of such dog upon acquisition of said dog if the dog is four
months of age or older, or once the dog reaches the age of four months, or
upon expiration of any previously issued license, or upon notification by the
Department that any previously issued license has expired and that such
license tax is due and payable.  Thereafter, except as otherwise permitted
herein, such license tax shall become due and payable by such person on the
date of expiration of any license previously issued for such dog.  License
taxes and fees shall be paid annually or every two or three years on or
before the expiration date of a previously issued license.  A three year
license for an altered dog shall be discounted by $5.00 off the cumulative
fee amount due.



 



   The Department is authorized to issue licenses for one, two or three
years.  The license may have a retroactive start date in order to expire
upon the expiration date of the anti-rabies vaccination.  The cost of the
license shall not be prorated.  In the event a license has been previously
issued, subsequent licenses shall expire one, two or three years from the
date of expiration of such previously issued license.  Licenses shall be
renewable upon payment of the appropriate license tax.  The owner or
custodian of a dog may choose the option of paying the license tax for said
dog for a period of one, two or three years consistent with State law if such
multi-year licenses are offered by the Department.



 



   Upon payment of the license tax, the Department shall issue a license
and a metal tag with the number thereof, together with the words "L.A. Dog
License" plainly inscribed thereon.  No portion of the license tax shall be
refunded in the event ownership, custody or control of any dog is terminated
during the license period or for any other reason.



 



   The metal tag issued with the license shall be a permanent tag and
shall be replaced only upon proof of loss or change of ownership.



 



   A written certificate, signed by a licensed veterinarian, containing a
full description of such dog as to its breed, color, sex, age and name, and
reciting the fact that the female dog has been spayed or the male dog
neutered or reciting the reasons why the veterinarian otherwise deems the dog
described therein incapable of breeding or being bred, shall be exhibited to
the person issuing a license in order to qualify for the lower tax and fee
specified herein.  The General Manager may accept other satisfactory
evidence of spaying or neutering in lieu of such certificate where it is
unavailable, or when provided in a manner prescribed by the Department,
including but not limited to electronic transmission or facsimile, consistent
with State law.



 



   (b)   The Department may issue a free license for any dog duly and
properly trained to aid or assist any person who is blind, deaf or physically
handicapped when the dog is actually being used to aid or assist such blind,
deaf, or physically handicapped person.  (Amended by Ord. No. 162,486, Eff.
7/18/87.)



 



   (c)   Provided, that the Department may transfer without charge the
license for any dog exchanged through provisions of Subsection (i) of Section
53.11, unless pursuant to Subsection (a) of this section, the licensed tax
charged for a dog taken in exchange for one brought back to the Department
would be higher, in which case the license may be transferred only upon the
payment of the additional amount.  (Amended by Ord. No. 142,491, Operative
10/1/71.)



 



   (d)   (Amended by Ord. No. 181,882, Eff. 10/30/11.)  No license for
a dog shall be issued unless the owner shall have paid the applicable license
tax provided therefor, and shall have exhibited to an authorized employee of
the Department a certificate of anti-rabies vaccination of the dog, signed by
a duly licensed veterinarian, or provided other satisfactory evidence of
current anti-rabies vaccination in a manner prescribed by the Department,
including but not limited to electronic transmission or facsimile, consistent
with State law, except as provided in Section 53.52 of this Article.



 



   Notwithstanding the provisions of Subsection (a) of this Section, any
license issued by the Department shall expire on the date upon which the
anti-rabies vaccination ceases to immunize the dog for which the license has
been issued.  A license may be issued for one, two or three years, and
commence retroactively in order to expire on the expiration date of the
anti-rabies vaccination.  The cost for such retroactive license shall not be
prorated.  In the event such immunization ceases to be effective prior to
the expiration of the license, the owner shall be notified in writing that
the license is not valid, at the address last known to the Department prior
to the date upon which the immunization ceases to be effective.  Said
license may become valid for the balance of the licensing period, without
payment of any additional tax, upon presentation to the Department of a new
certificate of vaccination or other satisfactory evidence of a current
anti-rabies vaccination showing effective immunization for the balance of
such licensing period.  For licenses issued before the effective date of
this Subsection, in order to align the expiration date of the license and the
expiration date of the anti-rabies vaccination, the Department may extend the
license period for a dog license in less than a one year increment and charge
a pro-rated amount therefor.



 



   (e)   The owner of any dog found without a current active license or
without a certificate of rabies vaccination indicating such dog is immune to
rabies as required by this section is guilty of a misdemeanor. (Amended by
Ord. No. 183,271, Eff. 11/14/14.)



 



   (f)   The Department shall issue one license at 50% of the current
altered license tax for one dog to any disabled individual or to any
individual 62 years of age or older who owns and maintains said dog, provided
that the combined adjusted gross income of all members of the household in
which such individual resides is less than the "very low income" limitation
for residents of the City of Los Angeles, as determined by the United States
Housing Act of 1937, as amended, using the figure in effect on the preceding
first day of April as published by the United States Department of Housing
and Urban Development. (Amended by Ord. No. 181,882, Eff. 10/30/11.)



 



   For the purpose of this Subsection, an individual shall be considered
to be disabled if he or she meets the definition promulgated by the
California Fair Employment and Housing Act or by the United States Department
of Labor.



 



   The dog for which application for a discounted license is made must be
a spayed female, a neutered male, or a dog certified by a licensed
veterinarian to be incapable of breeding or being bred.  Evidence that a dog
is spayed or neutered, or incapable of breeding or being bred shall be
provided by the owner to the Department in the same manner and form as it is
specified in Subsection (a) of this Section.



 



   No individual may apply for, be issued, or possess more than one
discounted license provided for by this Subsection at any given time, and no
more than one discounted license per household shall be issued.  The
provisions of this Subsection shall not eliminate the duty of any individual
to apply for and obtain a license for each dog owned by said individual.



 



   Any individual who is entitled to a discounted license under the
provisions of this Subsection may file an application with the Department for
such a license.  The license shall be automatically rendered invalid by any
change in ownership of said dog.  It shall be a misdemeanor for any person
to knowingly receive the benefits of the discounted license provided for by
this Subsection when the basis for such a discounted license either does not
exist or ceases to exist.



 



   (g)   Puppy certificate.  For a dog under the age of four months
old, the Department shall, in addition to any other fees charged at the time
the dog is adopted by the Department, charge an amount equal to the annual
license tax and fee for a spayed or neutered dog and issue a puppy
certificate for such dog.  The puppy certificate shall expire when the dog
is four months old.  Within 45 days of the expiration date of the
certificate, if the Department is provided with satisfactory evidence that
the dog has been sterilized and has received an anti-rabies vaccination, the
owner shall be provided with a valid license at no extra charge.  The one
year license shall expire on the expiration date of the anti-rabies
vaccination.  Any person adopting or purchasing a dog from any other source
may also purchase a puppy certificate from the Department or from any person
or organization authorized by the Department to issue a puppy certificate. 
(Added by Ord. No. 181,882, Eff. 10/30/11.)



 



   (h)   Late fees.  If the license tax imposed hereunder is not paid
within 30 days of the time required hereunder, a late fee of $20.00 for a
sterilized dog or $100.00 for an unsterilized or intact dog or such other
amount as determined by the Board of Animal Services Commissioners and
approved by the City Council, shall be due and payable in addition to any
other civil or criminal penalties imposed by this Article.  A $25.00 field
collection fee or such other amount as determined by the Board of Animal
Services Commissioners and approved by the City Council, shall be due and
payable when the tax for a license is collected at the property where the dog
or dogs are maintained following previous notice to the owner by the
Department.  (Added by Ord. No. 181,882, Eff. 10/30/11.)



 



   (i)   The owner of any dog that has not been spayed or neutered and
meets one of the exemptions in Section 53.15.2(b)(2) shall pay a license tax
equal to that of an intact dog.  In the absence of such immediate proof of
exemption, the owner shall enter into an agreement with the Department to
provide proof that the dog is exempt and is or will be in compliance with
Subdivisions (3) and (4) of Section 53.15.2(b), or have the dog spayed or
neutered and provide satisfactory proof to the Department within 60 days that
the dog is exempt in compliance with Section 53.15.2(b) or that the dog has
been spayed or neutered.  Failure to provide the required proof shall
subject the dog owner or custodian to the penalties enumerated in Section
53.15.2(b)(7).  The license shall not be valid until such satisfactory proof
is provided to the Department.  No portion of the license tax shall be
refunded in the event the dog is spayed or neutered during the license
period.  (Added by Ord. No. 181,882, Eff. 10/30/11.)



 



 



SEC. 53.15.1.  EQUINE LICENSE FEE.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 144,751 Eff. 7/1/73.)



 



   (a)   Equine Defined.  As used in this section, the word
“equine” shall mean any horse, pony, donkey, burro, or mule, twelve
months of age or older.  (Amended by Ord. No. 144,751, Eff. 7/1/73.)



 



   (b)   License Fee.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,380, Eff. 2/28/13.) 
Any person owning or having custody of any equine shall pay for the privilege
of keeping such equine a license fee of $14.00 per year, as discounted
herein.  The Department shall also issue multi-year licenses.  The
licensing fee shall be discounted 20% for a two-year license, 30% for a
three-year license, 40% for a four-year license and 50% for a five-year
license.  The license fee for the selected period shall be paid in advance
to the Department and shall be due and payable on or before the expiration
date of the license.



 



   A renewal license may have a retroactive start date in order to expire
upon the anniversary of the expiration date of the previously issued
license.  The cost of the license shall not be prorated.  In the event a
license has been previously issued, subsequent licenses shall expire on the
anniversary date of the expiration of such previously issued license.



 



   (c)   Fee Modification. The license fee may be modified by the City
Council, by ordinance, based on recommendations of the Finance and Revenue
Committee of the Council, which shall hold hearings at which equine-related
organizations may attend and present information relative to the
determination, of a proper fee.  (Amended by Ord. No. 161,728, Eff. 12/8/86.)



 



   (d)   Annual Fee Administration.  (Amended by Ord. No. 165,487,
Eff. 3/5/90.)  Receipts of the license fees collected pursuant to Subsection
(b) of this section shall be deposited in the Equestrian Facilities Trust
Fund.



 



   The Department, however, may enter into a contract that provides for a
contractor to collect equine license fees, to remit all its fee collections
to the Department for deposit in the City Treasury, and to be paid for its
services a sum equivalent to a percentage of the collected fees as agreed to
in the contract. In the event of such a contract and upon receipt of such
collected equine license fees, the Department shall  (1)  cause a portion
of such fees equal to the contract amount due the contractor for its
collection services to be deposited into the General Fund,  (2)  cause the
contractor to be paid for its services in said amount, and  (3)  cause the
remaining balance of the collected fees received by the Department to be
deposited into the Equestrian Facilities Trust Fund.



 



   (e)   Identification Tags.  (Amended by Ord. No. 151,852, Eff.
2/19/79, Oper. 3/1/79.)



 



   1.   The Department shall keep a record of the name and address of
the person to whom each identification tag is issued, the number of such tag,
and date of issuance thereof and a description of the equine for which issued.



 



   2.   Each equine identification tag shall consist of a metal tag
with the number affixed together with the words “L.A. City.”



 



   3.   No unauthorized person shall remove from any equine any
identification tag issued by the Department of Animal Services.



 



   4.   No person shall attach to or keep upon any equine, or make or
have in his possession any counterfeit or imitation of any tag provided for
in this article except that the Department may, upon statement of loss and
receipt of $1.00 issue a replacement equine license number and tag. (Amended
by Ord. No. 157,035, Eff. 10/4/82, Oper. 11/1/82.)



 



   (f)   Exceptions:  (Amended by Ord. No. 144,751, Eff. 7/1/73.)



 



   1.   This fee shall not apply to persons who bring equines into the
City for a period of less than 30 days.



 



   2.   This fee shall not apply to any equine maintained in any
boarding stable, riding academy, livery stable, pony ring, pony ride, horse
market or mule market under permit from the Department so long as such equine
is the property of the permit holder.



 



   (g)   Penalty. In the event any license fee required by this section
is not paid within 30 days after the date of expiration of any previously
issued license, or within 30 days after the date of mailing of notice to
secure a license to the owner or custodian of any previously unlicensed
equine, a late payment collection fee of $5.00 shall be charged in addition
to such other fee.  (Added by Ord. No. 161,728, Eff. 12/8/86.)



 



 



SEC. 53.15.2.  BREEDING AND TRANSFER OF DOGS AND CATS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 173,168, Eff. 5/18/00, Oper. 11/15/00.)



 



   The City Council finds that there exists a serious pet overpopulation
problem within the City, that has resulted in a threat to public safety and
health, inhumane treatment of animals, mass euthanasia of dogs/cats at the
local animal shelters and escalating costs for animal care and control. 
Further, the Board of Animal Services Commissioners has found that
uncontrolled breeding is the cause and, without action aimed at the source,
this problem and its serious consequences will remain unabated.  Council
finds that part of the solution is for all dogs and cats over the age of four
months to be spayed or neutered, unless their owners purchase the appropriate
licenses/permits for the privilege of maintaining the animal intact and
allowing it to breed.  Council also finds that an increase in the license
fee for unaltered dogs will encourage the owners to spay/neuter their dog(s),
in order to qualify for the much lower altered dog license fee.  Further,
Council finds that tighter regulation of the transfer of dogs and cats will
help alleviate the City’s pet overpopulation crisis by allowing increased
City control over the transfer of dogs and cats.



 



   (a)   Animal Ownership:



 



   Animal Owner, for purposes of this section, shall mean any person
harboring, keeping or providing care or sustenance to a domestic animal for
30 or more consecutive days on property which he/she owns, rents or leases. 
Such a person shall be subject to the requirements of this chapter.  This
definition does not apply to government agencies, animal rescue organizations
which have demonstrated to the Department that they have implemented an
ongoing spay/neuter program as well as an adoption program, or humane
societies or societies for the prevention of cruelty to animals if such
societies are incorporated under the provisions of California Corporations
Code Section 10400 and the Nonprofit Public Benefit Corporation Law in Part 2
of the California Corporations Code, beginning at Section 5110 and successor
sections.



 



   (b)   Intact Dogs and Cats:  (Amended by Ord. No. 179,615, Eff.
4/8/08.)



 



   (1)   No person who owns a cat over the age of four months shall
cause, permit, or allow the cat to be in a public place unsupervised, unless
the cat is spayed or neutered.  The term public place shall include, but not
be limited to, streets, highways, sidewalks, carnivals, shopping malls, flea
markets, boardwalks, and areas in front of commercial establishments.  This
requirement applies to all unaltered cats, whether or not their owner(s) have
obtained breeding permits pursuant to Subsection (c), below.



 



   (2)   No person, within the City of Los Angeles, shall own a dog or
cat over the age of four months that has not been spayed or neutered, unless
valid written documentation is provided to show proof that the animal is
exempt from the requirement to be spayed or neutered by reason of one of the
following, and is in compliance with Subdivisions (3) and (4) below:



 



   A.   The dog or cat is a breed approved by and registered with a
national or international breed registry or association which, at a minimum,
requires identification of the breed, date of birth, names of registered sire
and dam, the name of the breeder and recordkeeping relating to breeding,
transfer of ownership and death.  In addition, the animal must actively show
or compete and shall have competed in at least one show or sporting
competition hosted or staged by, or under the approval of, a national
association, unless it is too young to compete.  The owner shall provide
verified proof to the satisfaction of the General Manager of the Department
with each application for a new or renewal license.  The Board of Animal
Services Commissioners may issue further guidelines for enforcement of this
Subsection.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,605, Eff. 8/6/13.)



 



   B.   (Deleted by Ord. No. 182,605, Eff. 8/6/13.)



 



   C.   The dog is being trained or has been appropriately trained and
is actively used in a manner that meets the definition of guide, signal or
service dog as set forth in Subdivisions (d), (e), and (f) of Section 365.5
of the Penal Code, or the dog is enrolled in a guide, signal or service dog
breeding program administered by a person licensed under Chapter 9.5
(commencing with Section 7200) of Division 3 of the California Business and
Professions Code.



 



   D.   The dog is appropriately trained or is in the process of being
trained and is actively used by law enforcement agencies or the military for
law enforcement, military or rescue activities.



 



   E.   (Amended by Ord. No. 182,605, Eff. 8/6/13.)  The owner of the
dog or cat provides a letter to the Department from a California licensed
veterinarian certifying that arrangements have been made to spay or neuter
the dog or cat within 60 days after the animal reaches the age of four
months; that the dog or cat is too sick or injured to be spayed or neutered
and that the animal's health would be best served by spaying or neutering
after a specified date; or that it is unsafe to spay or neuter the animal due
to old age, a permanent and serious medical condition or permanent infirmity
that would prevent the animal from reproducing.  The letter shall include
the veterinarian's license number.



 



   Except for a letter certifying that arrangements have been made to spay
or neuter the dog or cat within 60 days after the animal reaches the age of
four months, any letter from a veterinarian requesting a temporary or
permanent extension, including updates, shall specify the animal's medical
condition and the diagnosis which justifies the exemption and be supported by
diagnostic reports.  If the cat or dog has not been spayed or neutered by
the date specified in the veterinarian's letter, the owner shall obtain an
updated letter from the veterinarian specifying the new date by which the
animal may be safely spayed or neutered.  An updated letter for a temporary
or permanent extension shall be submitted at the time of each license
renewal.  If the letter from the veterinarian certifies that arrangements
have been made to spay or neuter the dog within 60 days from the date the dog
reaches the age of four months and the Department has been notified that the
dog has in fact been spayed or neutered within that 60-day period, the owner
shall qualify for the lower license fee and license tax for an altered dog.



 



   F.   The dog or cat has a valid breeding permit issued to the owner
pursuant to Subsection (c) below.



 



   (3)   An unaltered dog or cat shall be implanted with an animal
identification device identifying the owner of the animal.



 



   (4)   In addition to meeting one of the exemptions in this section,
the dog license application for an unaltered dog shall contain the
information requested by the Department, including the identification number
of the implanted animal identification device, the name and address of the
owner, and the location at which the dog will be maintained.



 



   (5)   A license for an unaltered dog shall not be transferable, and
shall not be issued to any person under the age of eighteen years.



 



   (6)   The provisions of this subsection become operative on October
1, 2008.  However, an unaltered dog that has a valid dog license from the
Department shall not be subject to this subsection until the dog license
expires, or October 1, 2009, whichever occurs first.



 



   (7)   No person shall own, possess, harbor or have custody and
control of a cat or dog in violation of this subsection. (Amended by Ord. No.
183,271, Eff. 11/14/14.)



 



   (8)   (Amended by Ord. No. 182,605, Eff. 8/6/13.)  An unaltered dog
or cat found running at large and impounded as a lost or stray animal shall
be spayed or neutered and shall be implanted with a microchip before being
redeemed by its owner, and the owner shall pay the amount established by the
Department for spaying or neutering the dog or cat and implanting the
microchip.



 



   The Department shall waive the sterilization requirement the first time
the unaltered dog or cat is impounded if the animal is exempt from the
spay/neuter requirement, vaccinated and implanted with a microchip, and in
the case of a dog, licensed, or the owner obtains a license and is in
compliance with all other applicable provisions of this Article.  The owner
shall be responsible for paying the impound fees established by the
Department, including the reasonable cost of feeding and caring, implanting
the microchip, vaccinations, medication and any diagnostic or therapeutic
applications as may be required in the reasonable discretion of the
Department.  Payment of the impound fees shall not be waived by the
Department upon the abandonment of the dog or cat by the owner and shall be
in addition to any other applicable civil or criminal penalties that may be
imposed.  If the owner chooses to have the animal sterilized prior to or in
conjunction with the redemption and pays for the dog license, sterilization
and implanting the microchip, the Department shall waive the impound fees.



 



   An animal impounded for a second or subsequent time shall be spayed or
neutered.  The owner shall pay the amount established by the Department for
the sterilization as part of the impound fees.  If the owner chooses to have
the animal sterilized prior to or in conjunction with the redemption and pays
for the sterilization, the Department shall waive the impound fees.  If the
owner fails to pay the impound fees and costs as required, the animal shall
be deemed to have been abandoned, unless the owner consents to and pays for
the sterilization.



 



   (9)   (Added by Ord. No. 182,605, Eff. 8/6/13.)  Prior to
sterilizing an animal pursuant to the provisions of Subdivision (8) of this
Subsection, the Department shall serve upon the owner in the manner provided
for giving of notice in Section 11.00(i) of this Code, written notice of the
intent to sterilize.  If the owner does not want the Department to sterilize
the animal, the owner, on a form provided by the Department, may file a
written request for an administrative hearing within ten (10) days of such
service.  The decision of the Department to sterilize is final and effective
when served on the owner, unless an appeal is filed within fifteen (15) days
of said service.



 



   If the Department receives a timely written request for an
administrative hearing, it shall hold a hearing within twenty (20) days of
receiving the request.  Notice shall be served at least ten (10) days prior
to the date set for the hearing.  The hearing shall be conducted in
accordance with the provisions of Subsections (a) through (m) inclusive, of
Section 53.18.5.  Prior to the hearing, the impound fees and costs accruing
to the date of the hearing shall be paid by the owner.



 



   (10)   The decision of the General Manager may be appealed to the
Board of Animal Services Commissioners by the owner.  The appeal shall be in
writing on an appeal form provided by the Department and scheduled for the
first available Board meeting following receipt of the appeal in accordance
with the procedures in Section 53.18.5(q)2. through 10., which govern the
appeal process to the Board.  The fees and costs to be charged to the owner
from the time the appeal is received by the Department to the time that the
Board decision is served on the owner shall not exceed fifteen (15) days of
fees and costs for feeding and caring of the animal, unless, by written
consent of the owner, the hearing date is continued to the next Board meeting
and the owner agrees to pay for a not-to-exceed additional fourteen (14) days
of fees and costs.  If the Board reverses the decision of the General
Manager and orders the animal returned without sterilization, the fees and
costs for the feeding and caring of the animal accruing after the time the
appeal is received by the Department to the time the Board decision is served
on the owner shall be waived.  Payment of the impound fees and costs shall
not be waived by the Department upon the abandonment of the dog or cat by the
owner and shall be in addition to any other applicable civil or criminal
penalties that may be imposed.  (Added by Ord. No. 182,605, Eff. 8/6/13.)



 



   (c)   Breeding Permit:



 



   (1)   No person shall cause or allow any dog or cat owned, harbored
or kept within the City of Los Angeles to breed without first obtaining a
breeding permit, as described below.  The term breeding permit means a
written authorization, issued annually by the General Manager, giving its
lawful holder permission to breed a dog or a cat.



 



   (2)   Each breeding permit shall be valid for one year from the date
of issuance, and may be renewed annually, before its expiration date.  Each
applicant for such a permit shall pay an annual fee of $235.00 or such other
fee established in the manner set forth in Subsection (a) of Section 53.12
and promulgated by the Department.  A separate permit must be obtained for
each owned dog or cat that is allowed to breed.  (Amended by Ord. No.
181,341, Eff. 11/14/10.)



 



   (3)   The Department shall administer an animal breeding permit
program to allow the breeding of unaltered dogs and cats consistent with the
criteria and procedures established by the Department pursuant to Section
53.58 of this Article.  A breeding permit shall not be issued to a person
who has been convicted of animal cruelty, neglect or abuse or to a person who
has failed to obtain appropriate licenses or permits for the animal for which
the breeding permit is being sought.  Animals receiving a breeding permit
shall be implanted with an electronic animal identification device
(microchip) identifying the owner.  The microchip number shall be verified
by the Department.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,605, Eff. 8/6/13.)



 



   (4)   In addition to the criteria and procedures established by the
General Manager pursuant to Paragraph 3 of this subsection, all breeding
permits shall contain the following terms and conditions:



 



   A.   The owner of an unaltered female dog or cat shall not allow the
whelping of more than one litter in any household within the permit year. 
Notwithstanding this provision, the General Manager is hereby authorized,
upon application of a permittee, to allow on a one time basis the whelping of
up to two dog or cat litters per breeding animal within any domestic
household within a permit year, if the permittee establishes, according to
regulations promulgated by the General Manager, that such breeding is
required to protect the health of the animal or avert a substantial economic
loss to the permittee.  In the event that a permittee is forced to euthanize
a litter of dogs or cats, the General Manager may authorize the whelping of
one additional litter of dogs or cats within the same permit year by the
permittee;



 



   B.   No offspring may be sold, adopted, bartered, or otherwise
transferred, whether for compensation or otherwise, until it has reached the
age of at least eight weeks;



 



   C.   No offspring may be sold or adopted until immunized against
common diseases.  The sale or adoption of a dog or cat shall include a
statement signed by the seller or adopter attesting to the signatory’s
knowledge of the animal’s health, and the animal’s immunization history;



 



   D.   Any holder of a breeding permit who advertises to the public
the availability of any dog or cat for sale, adoption, or transfer, whether
for compensation or otherwise, must prominently display the permit number in
any such advertisement.  Further, the breeding permit holder must provide
the permit number to any person who purchases, adopts or receives any animal
from the permit holder and include the permit number on any receipt of sale
or transfer document;



 



   E.   Commercial establishments selling locally bred dogs or cats
shall prominently display the breeding permit number(s) of the breeder(s)
whose dogs and cats are sold in said establishments and any other pertinent
information required by the General Manager; Commercial establishments
selling dogs and cats which were not bred within the City of Los Angeles
shall prominently display the name and address of the breeder(s) of such dogs
and cats and any other pertinent information required by the General Manager;



 



   F.   Any breeding permit holder selling or otherwise transferring a
dog or a cat, whether for compensation or otherwise, shall submit to the Los
Angeles Department of Animal Services the name, address, and telephone number
of the animal’s new owner within five days from the sale or other transfer,
on a Department approved form; and



 



   G.   Any breeding permit holder or commercial establishment which
sells or otherwise transfers a dog or cat, whether for compensation or
otherwise, shall provide to the new animal owner City application(s) for a
license and permit as well as written information regarding the license and
permit requirements of the City of Los Angeles applicable to such animal.



 



   H.   A breeding permit holder shall implant each offspring born to a
permitted animal with an electronic animal identification device identifying
the breeder.  The identity of the breeder shall remain on the electronic
animal identification device along with the identity of the new owner upon
the sale or transfer of the animal.  (Added by Ord. No. 182,605, Eff.
8/6/13.)



 



   I.   A breeding permit holder shall comply with all applicable
local, state and federal requirements for humane standards of operation,
maintenance and housing of animals and shall be subject to inspection by the
Department.  (Added by Ord. No. 182,605, Eff. 8/6/13.)



 



   (5)   The following animals are exempt from the breeding permit
requirements:



 



   A.   Dogs documented as having been appropriately trained and
actively used by law enforcement agencies for law enforcement and rescue
activities;



 



   B.   Dogs documented as guide, signal, or service dogs pursuant to
California Penal Code Section 365.5(d), (e) & (f) and successor sections;



 



   C.   Dogs and cats certified by a licensed veterinarian as not being
suitable subjects for spaying and neutering due to health reasons;



 



   D.   Dogs and cats under the care of governmental animal control
agencies; animal rescue organizations which have demonstrated to the
Department that they have implemented an ongoing spay/neuter plan, as well as
an adoption plan; or humane societies or societies for the prevention of
cruelty to animals, if such societies are incorporated under the provisions
of California Corporations Code Section 10400 and the Nonprofit Public
Benefit Corporation Law in Part 2 of the California Corporations Code,
beginning at Section 5110, and successor sections; and



 



   E.   Dogs documented as enrolled in a guide, signal or service dog
breeding program administered by a person licensed under Chapter 9.5
(commencing with Section 7200) of Division 3 of the California Business and
Professions Code.



 



   (d)   Penalties:



 



   (1)   A violation of the breeding permit provisions of this section
is a misdemeanor. (Amended by Ord. No. 183,271, Eff. 11/14/14.)



 



   (2)   The Department may revoke any permit issued pursuant to this
section upon a finding that the permit holder has violated its terms and
conditions.  Such a finding shall be made after an administrative hearing
conducted in accordance with the provisions of Section 53.18.5 of this Code;
provided, however, that a finding by the Department’s hearing examiner that
such violation had occurred, if this finding is sustained by the General
Manager, shall result in the permit’s revocation, notwithstanding the
provisions of Section 53.18.5(l) of this Code.



 



   (3)   (Deleted by Ord. No. 183,271, Eff. 11/14/14.)



 



   (e)   Sale, Adoption and Other Transfers of Dogs and Cats:



 



   (1)   Any person who offers or provides, whether for compensation or
otherwise, any dog or cat for sale or other type of transfer, shall disclose
to the transferee information regarding the license and permit requirements
of the City of Los Angeles applicable to the transferred animal.



 



   (2)   No person shall present any dog or cat for sale, adoption,
barter, exchange, or adoption, whether for compensation or otherwise, in any
public place, without first obtaining a permit pursuant to Los Angeles
Municipal Code section 53.50.  The term public place shall include, but not
be limited to, streets, highways, sidewalks, carnivals, shopping malls, flea
markets, boardwalks, and areas in front of commercial establishments.  This
prohibition shall not apply to:



 



   A.   Government agencies; non-profit animal rescue organizations
exempt from taxation under Internal Revenue Code section 501(c)(3); or humane
societies or societies for the prevention of cruelty to animals if such
societies are incorporated under the provisions of California Corporations
Code Section 10400 and the Nonprofit Public Benefit Corporation Law in Part 2
of the California Corporations Code, beginning at Section 5110;



 



   B.   Permitted dog or cat shows; or



 



   C.   Permitted pet stores which sell or otherwise transfer dogs or
cats, whether for compensation or otherwise, within the store.



 



   (3)   No person shall give away any dog or cat as a prize or as an
inducement to enter into any contest, lottery, drawing, game or competition.



 



   (4)   No person shall give away any dog or cat as an inducement to
enter a place of business, or to enter into a business arrangement.



 



   (5)   No person shall sell, barter, exchange or offer for adoption,
whether for compensation or otherwise, any dog or cat to any minor under the
age of eighteen years, without the written permission of one of the minor’s
parents or legal guardians.



 



   (6)   Commercial establishments selling dogs and cats which were not
bred within the City of Los Angeles shall prominently display the name and
address of the breeder(s) of such dogs and cats and any other pertinent
information required by the General Manager.



 



   (7)   Failure to display the breeding permit number or include it in
any advertisement for sale, adoption or other transfer of dogs and cats is a
misdemeanor. (Amended by Ord. No. 183,271, Eff. 11/14/14.)



 



   (8)   Possession of a valid permit under this section of the Code
does not entitle the permit holder to engage in an activity which is
otherwise prohibited by law.



 



   (9)   No person shall sell, offer or advertise for sale or adoption,
barter, transfer or broker the transfer or sale for compensation or
otherwise, any dog, cat or other animal under the age of six months within
the City of Los Angeles, without first obtaining a transfer permit.  This
requirement shall not apply to:  (i) pet dealers who conform to the
provisions of California Health & Safety Code Section 122125-122220 or pet
stores or other commercial establishments permitted to sell or transfer dogs
and cats and who are regulated by the Department; (ii) governmental agencies;
(iii) non-profit animal rescue organizations exempt from taxation under
Internal Revenue Code Section 501(c)(3) that do not breed animals, are
registered with the Department and comply with the rules and regulations of
the Department, including early age spaying and neutering; (iv) humane
societies or societies for the prevention of cruelty to animals if such
societies are incorporated under the provisions of the California
Corporations Code Section 10400 and the Non-Profit Public Benefit Corporation
Law in Part 2 of the California Corporations Code, beginning at Section 5110;
or (v) a person who has a valid breeding permit from the Department and is
selling or transferring a puppy or kitten pursuant to the breeding permit. 
(Added by Ord. No. 181,353, Eff. 11/18/10.)



 



   (10)   The term transfer permit means a written authorization issued
annually in accordance with the permit process established in Sections 53.50
and 53.58, giving the permit holder permission to sell or transfer for
compensation or otherwise, animals under the age of six months including dogs
or cats.  Each holder of a transfer permit shall pay an annual fee of
$120.00 or an amount as revised by the Board of Animal Services Commissioners
and approved by the City Council, and abide by the rules and regulations
promulgated by the General Manager, including but not limited to limitations
on the number of animals that may be transferred annually.  (Added by Ord.
No. 181,353, Eff. 11/18/10.)



 



   (11)   (Added by Ord. No. 181,353, Eff. 11/18/10.)  In addition to
the criteria and procedures established by the General Manager and such
information as the General Manager shall request, the permit holder shall:



 



   A.   Prominently display the transfer permit number for the sale,
adoption, or transfer of any animal under the age of six months, in any
advertisement including but not limited to newspapers, newsletters, flyers,
magazines or other publications, electronic media, internet or the posting of
signs;



 



   B.   Certify that he or she is over the age of eighteen years and
has not been convicted of animal cruelty or neglect;



 



   C.   Provide to any person who purchases, adopts or receives an
animal under the age of six months a statement signed by the permit holder
attesting to the signatory's knowledge of the animal's health and
immunization history, and include a copy of the City's license and permit
requirements.  The transfer permit number must appear on the sale or
transfer document;



 



   D.   Provide the Department with the name, address and contact
information for the breeder(s) and other source or origin of the animal, as
well as the location at which the animal is located or will be kept if
different from the address on the transfer permit;



 



   E.   Agree not to transfer a dog or cat until it has reached the age
of eight weeks, has been weaned, micro-chipped, immunized against common
diseases, and in the case of a dog four months of age or older, has received
its rabies vaccination.  Proof of the rabies and other vaccinations shall be
provided to the new owner; 



 



   F.   In the case of the sale, adoption or transfer of a dog, submit
to the Department the name, address and telephone number of the new owner
along with the micro-chip information on a Department approved form within
five (5) days from the date of sale or transfer;



 



   G.   Agree not to transfer any dog, cat or other animal under the
age of six months to any minor under the age of eighteen years;



 



   H.   Agree not to knowingly sell or transfer an animal for use in
dog or animal fighting or in any other illegal activity;



 



   I.   Obtain a City business license and if applicable, a seller's
permit or license and/or resale and tax identification number from the State
Board of Equalization or any other required license or permit; and



 



   J.   Comply with all tax laws and regulations.



 



   (12)   A violation of the transfer permit provisions of this Section
may be prosecuted as a misdemeanor. Failure to comply with the terms and
conditions of the transfer permit and applicable law shall also be grounds
for the revocation or suspension of the transfer permit. (Amended by Ord. No.
183,271, Eff. 11/14/14.)



 



 



SEC. 53.15.3.  DOG LICENSE FEE.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 181,882, Eff. 10/30/11.)



 



   (a)   Any person owning or having custody or control of any dog
shall pay, in addition to a license tax, a fee in the sum of $91.50 for the
processing and related costs of issuance of a dog license, except that for
spayed female or neutered male dogs, or any dog certified by a licensed
veterinarian to be incapable of breeding or being bred, a fee of $16.50 shall
be paid.  The provisions of Section 53.15 of this Code with respect to
eligibility for the lower license tax specified there shall be equally
applicable to eligibility for the lower fee specified in this Section.  Any
person eligible under the provisions of Section 53.15 of this Code for a
lower license tax shall also be eligible for the lower license fee imposed by
this Section and any person exempt under the provisions of Section 53.15 of
this Code from paying the license tax shall be exempt from paying any the
license fee imposed by this Section.  License fees shall be paid at the same
time and in the same manner as the license tax.



 



   (b)   Failure by the owner or custodian of any dog to pay the
license tax and fee required by this Article within 45 days from the date of
acquisition of a dog four months of age or older, within 45 days of the dog
reaching the age of four months, within 45 days of the date of expiration of
any previously issued dog license, within 45 days from the date of mailing of
notice to secure a license to the owner or custodian of any previously
unlicensed dog, or within 45 days of the expiration date of the anti-rabies
vaccination, is a misdemeanor. (Amended by Ord. No. 183,271, Eff. 11/14/14.)



 



 



SEC. 53.15.4.  VETERINARIANS AND OTHERS AUTHORIZED TO DISTRIBUTE DOG LICENSE
APPLICATIONS OR SELL DOG LICENSES.



   (Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 181,882, Eff. 10/30/11.)



 



   (a)   The Department may authorize a duly licensed California
veterinarian, pet hospital, pet store, licensed kennel or any duly licensed
person engaged in the business of breeding, selling or otherwise transferring
the ownership of dogs, to distribute dog license applications or puppy
certificate applications to persons residing in the City of Los Angeles, and
be paid for such services a sum not to exceed $2.00 or such other amount as
determined by the Board of Animal Services Commissioners and approved by the
City Council, for each application processed and license issued by the
Department.



 



   (b)   The Department may also authorize a duly licensed California
veterinarian, pet hospital, pet store, licensed kennel or any duly licensed
person engaged in the business of breeding, selling or otherwise transferring
the ownership of dogs, to sell dog licenses or puppy certificates to persons
residing in the City of Los Angeles and be paid for such services by entering
into an agreement with the Department establishing the conditions of such
sale.  The amount to be paid for such services shall not exceed $2.00 or
such other amount as determined by the Board of Animal Services Commissioners
and approved by the City Council.



 



 



SEC. 53.15.5.  ELECTRONIC ANIMAL IDENTIFICATION DEVICE.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 183,527, Eff. 6/8/15.)



 



   The Department may provide and implant an electronic animal
identification device (microchip) in any dog, cat or rabbit at the request of
the animal's owner.  The Department shall charge the owner a fee to provide
and implant the microchip in the amount of $15.00 per animal, or such other
fee established in Subsection (a) of Section 53.12.  (Amended by Ord. No.
185,537, Eff. 6/21/18.)



 



   The Department shall implant each dog, cat and rabbit adopted out of a
Department shelter with a microchip.  The fee for the implanted device for a
dog, cat or rabbit adopted from the Department's shelters shall be $15 per
animal, or such other fee established in the manner set forth in Subsection
(a) of Section 53.12 and promulgated by the Department.  The fee for the
microchip shall be paid in addition to any other adoption-related fee, except
as otherwise expressly provided.



 



 



SEC. 53.16.  LICENSES TO BE SIGNED.



   (Repealed by Ord. No. 181,882, Eff. 10/30/11.)



 



 



SEC. 53.17.  LICENSES – WHAT TO STATE.



 



   (a)   Each such license shall state:



 



   (1)   The name and residence of the person to whom such license is
issued;



 



   (2)   The amount paid therefor and the character thereof;



 



   (3)   The date when issued;



 



   (4)   The date on which such license shall expire;



 



   (5)   A description of the dog for which such license is issued;



 



   (6)   The number of the metallic tag accompanying the same;



 



   (b)   (None)



 



 



SEC. 53.18.  RECORD OF LICENSES.



 



   It is hereby made the duty of the Department to keep a record of
licenses issued so that a complete copy thereof may be issued when required.



 



 



SEC. 53.18.5.  HEARING PROCEDURES AND LICENSE REVOCATIONS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 162,538, Eff. 8/27/87; Title Amended by Ord. No.
181,930, Eff. 12/11/11.)



 



   This section shall govern hearing procedures for barking dog
complaints, the revocation of dog licenses and related matters.  For
purposes of this section the term "dog" includes the plural and the term
"owner" means the owner or person having charge, care or custody of a dog. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 181,930, Eff. 12/11/11.)



 



   (a)   Hearing.  A hearing pursuant to this Section shall be held to
issue or reissue a dog license upon terms, conditions and restrictions.  A
hearing shall also be held to revoke a dog license that has previously been
issued or reissued upon terms, conditions or restrictions where the owner has
either failed to comply with the terms, conditions or restrictions or the
violation continues to exist or reoccurs.  A hearing also may be held in the
absence of a dog license or in the absence of a valid license.  Following
the hearing, the license may be issued or reissued upon terms, conditions and
restrictions, or the owner may be ordered to surrender the dog to the
Department or remove the dog from the City as if the license was revoked. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 181,930, Eff. 12/11/11.)



 



   (b)   Hearing Examiner.  A Hearing Examiner appointed by the
General Manager shall exercise all powers relating to the conduct of the
hearing, including but not limited to, the administration of oaths and
affirmations and to certify to official acts.



 



   (c)   Notice of Hearing.  The Department shall commence a hearing
by issuing to and the serving of a written notice upon the owner of the dog.
Notice shall be served at least ten (10) days prior to the date set for the
hearing. The notice shall state in clear and concise language:



 



   1.   the purpose and reason for holding the hearing and the
requested remedy or penalty, and



 



   2.   the time and place where the hearing is to be held.



 



   (d)   Subpoena Power.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,273, Eff. 6/25/00,
Oper. 7/1/00.)  The General Manager or his authorized representative is
authorized and empowered to summon witnesses for the hearing by requesting
the City Clerk, pursuant to Section 217 of the Charter of the City of Los
Angeles, to issue subpoenas requiring the attendance of such witnesses at the
time and place specified.



 



   (e)   Witnesses.  At the hearing, the owner of the dog, the
complainant or complainants, if any, and the Department shall be given an
opportunity to present evidence, and call and cross-examine witnesses.



 



   (f)   Continuances.  The Hearing Examiner may continue the hearing
from time to time upon good cause being shown.



 



   (g)   Notice.  Any written notice provided for in this section
shall be served upon the owner of the dog in the manner provided for giving
of notice in Section 11.00 (i) of this Code, or by posting upon property
occupied by the owner, or both. Service by posting is complete upon posting.



 



   (h)   Evidence.  Hearings need not be conducted according to
technical rules relating to evidence or witnesses. Any relevant evidence
shall be admitted if it is the sort of evidence on which responsible persons
are accustomed to rely in conduct of serious affairs, regardless of the
existence of any common law or statutory rule which might make improper the
admission of such evidence over objection in civil actions. Hearsay evidence
may be used for the purpose of supplementing or explaining any direct
evidence, but shall not be sufficient in itself to support a finding unless
it would be admissible over objection in civil actions. Oral evidence shall
be taken only on oath or affirmation.



 



   (i)   Reporting.  A recording or transcript of the hearing shall be
taken.



 



   (j)   Burden of Proof.  The burden is on the Department to show by
a preponderance of the evidence that the allegations made are true.



 



   (k)   Hearing Examiner - Report.  The Hearing Examiner shall,
within 15 days of the conclusion of any hearing, submit a report to the
General Manager. The report shall contain a summary of the evidence,
including oral testimony, and shall state the Hearing Examiner’s findings
and recommendations. The report shall be a public record and shall be served
upon the owner of the dog in accordance with the provision of (g) above.



 



   (l)   Hearings.  (Amended by Ord. No. 165,507, Eff. 3/25/90.)



 



   1.   (Amended by Ord. No. 181,930, Eff. 12/11/11.)  If, at the
initial hearing the Hearing Examiner determines that the allegations are
true, the Hearing Examiner shall recommend that the license be issued or
reissued upon reasonable terms, conditions or restrictions for the training,
handling or maintenance of the dog to abate the condition which gave rise to
the hearing.  In the absence of a dog license or of a valid license, the
Hearing Examiner may recommend that the license be issued upon reasonable
terms, conditions or restrictions or if the owner is unwilling to accept an
issued or reissued license, that the dog be surrendered to the Department or
removed from the City.  Surrendering the dog to the Department or removing
the dog from the City shall be in addition to any civil or criminal penalties
for failure to have a valid license.



 



   Terms, conditions, or restrictions may include but are not limited to
the following:



 



   A.   selection of locations within the owner's property or premises
where a dog shall not be kept;



 



   B.   requirements as to size, construction or design of an enclosure
where a dog may be kept;



 



   C.   specialized training from a trainer or training program
approved by the Department to correct any of the dog's behavioral problems;



 



   D.   removal of one or more dogs from the premises to another
location or prohibiting the addition of any new dog at the premises;



 



   E.   types and method of restraint, or muzzling, or both;



 



   F.   photo identification, permanent marking, electronic
identification device, or all of these, for purposes of identification;



 



   G.   sterilization, even if otherwise exempt;



 



   H.   a civil penalty as provided by ordinance for an administrative
citations enforcement program;



 



   I.   requiring the owner to obtain a Restricted Dog Permit with
additional terms, conditions and restrictions pursuant thereto.



 



   2.   A hearing or subsequent hearing shall be held wherein the
license may be revoked if the owner has either failed to comply with the
terms, conditions or restrictions imposed pursuant to clause (1), above, or
Subdivision (r) or if the violation continues to exist.



 



   If the license is again reissued, in addition to any other term,
condition or restriction recommended by the Hearing Examiner, the licensee
shall agree to pay a civil penalty in the amount of two hundred fifty dollars
($250) as a condition of the re-issuance of the license. The General Manager
shall establish such rules and regulations as are reasonably necessary to
prevent the imposition of the civil penalty from becoming an economic
hardship on the licensee. Such rules and regulations shall include, but are
not limited to, criteria to reduce the amount of penalty to be imposed and
provisions for time payments.



 



   3.   If the owner fails to appear at a hearing or absents himself
from a hearing, the Hearing Examiner may continue the matter or proceed with
the hearing as the Hearing Examiner deems appropriate.  Notwithstanding any
other provision of this Section, the Hearing Examiner may recommend that the
license of any owner who fails to attend a hearing or absents himself from a
hearing be revoked if the evidence establishes that the allegations are
true.  In the absence of a license or a valid license, the Hearing Examiner
may recommend that the dog be surrendered to the Department or removed from
the City as if the license were revoked.  Surrendering the dog to the
Department or removing the dog from the City shall be in addition to any
civil or criminal penalties for failure to have a valid license.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 181,930, Eff. 12/11/11.)



 



   (m)   General Manager – Review. 



 



   1.   The General Manager shall review the findings and
recommendations of the Hearing Examiner and may adopt or reject the Hearing
Examiner’s findings, or may adopt or modify the recommendations of the
Hearing Examiner, or may return the matter to the Hearing Examiner for
further evidence or for additional  findings and recommendations. The
General Manager’s decision shall be finalized in writing within 15 days of
the receipt of the Hearing Examiner’s findings and recommendations, and
shall be served upon the owner in accordance with the provisions of (g) above.



 



   2.   The decision of the General Manager is final and effective when
served upon the owner, unless there is an appeal filed within 15 days of said
service.



 



   (n)   Revoked License - Removal of Animal from City.  Following a
hearing, if a dog license is revoked, or in the absence of a license or a
valid license, if the dog has been ordered to be surrendered to the
Department or removed from the City as if the license were revoked, the owner
shall surrender the dog to the Department or permanently remove the dog or
cause the dog to be permanently removed from the City within five (5)
calendar days after either the time for appeal, as provided herein, has
passed without an appeal being filed, or the decision of the General Manager
revoking a dog license or ordering the dog to be surrendered to the
Department or removed from the City as if the license were revoked, has been
served upon the dog owner.  The dog shall be impounded by the Department if
found within the City after the five day period.  Failure to remove a dog
from the City or surrender it to the Department as provided herein is a
misdemeanor.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,930, Eff. 12/11/11.)



 



   (o)   Subsequent Disposition of Dog.  Notwithstanding any other
provision of law, the Department shall hold for sale any dog surrendered or
impounded pursuant to this section for a period of forty-five (45) days. The
dog must be transferred to and sold from a district animal shelter different
from the district animal shelter where the complaint arose. The General
Manager or his duly authorized representative may impose appropriate terms,
conditions or restrictions as a condition to the issuance of a new license to
a new owner.



 



   (p)   Notice to the Department of the Removal of a Dog from the
City.  An owner of any dog whose license has been revoked pursuant to this
section shall inform the Department in writing upon the dog’s removal from
the City the name, address, and telephone number of the new owner, the
location where the dog will be kept and the name and description of the dog.
The owner shall, in addition, notify the new owner in writing of the details
of any and all complaints concerning the dog, and any terms, conditions or
restrictions previously imposed by the Department. The owner shall provide
the Department with a copy of the notification to the new owner as well as an
acknowledgment by the new owner the receipt thereof.



 



   (q)   Appeal Procedures. (Amended by Ord. No. 164,477, Eff. 3/27/89.)



 



   1.   The decision of the General Manager to revoke a dog license or
order a dog to be surrendered to the Department or removed from the City as
if the license were revoked, to declare a dog to be a dangerous animal, to
issue or re-issue a dog license upon terms, conditions or restrictions, or
refuse to issue a new license pursuant to Subdivision (r) may be appealed to
the Board of Commissioners by the owner of the dog as provided herein. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 181,930, Eff. 12/11/11.)



 



   2.   The Board may establish such rules and procedures consistent
with this section as it deems necessary for the conduct of the hearing of
appeals, including, but not limited to, the filing and presentation of
written and oral statements.



 



   3.   The appeal shall be in writing and shall be on an appeal form
provided by the Department.  The appellant shall set forth specifically on
the form wherein the appellant believes that the decision of the General
Manager is not supported by the evidence or where any hearing before a
Hearing Examiner was not conducted in accordance with the provisions of this
section for the conduct of hearings.  Within 10 days from the date of a
timely filed appeal, the General Manager shall transmit to the Board copies
of the Hearing Examiner’s file and report, the General Manager’s written
decision and the appeal form for consideration.



 



   The grounds or reasons stated on the appeal form by the appellant will
be the only grounds or reasons considered by the Board.  No appeal shall be
considered if filed or postmarked later than 15 days after the decision of
the General Manager is served upon the owner or if the owner has failed to
appear at the hearing before the Hearing Examiner.



 



   4.   The Board shall fix the time, date and place of the hearing and
shall serve a notice of the hearing upon all parties at least five days prior
to the hearing.  The Board shall conduct its hearing at the time, date and
place specified in the notice unless, upon the written request of the
appellant and upon good cause being shown, it agrees to continue the hearing
once to a date certain no later than 14 days after the original date set for
the hearing.



 



   5.   The Board, after notice and hearing, may affirm, modify, or
reverse the decision of the General Manager and deny or grant appeal
accordingly.



 



   6.   The Board shall not consider any new evidence and shall base
its decision only upon



 



   (i)   the record before the Hearing Examiner,



 



   (ii)   the report of the Hearing Examiner,



 



   (iii)   the written decision of the General Manager,



 



   (iv)   the appeal form, and



 



   (v)   a consideration of statements, if any, presented to the Board
orally or in writing at the hearing.



 



   7.   The Board shall make its decision within 75 days from the date
the General Manager transmits to the Board the materials described in
Subdivision 3 above provided, however, this time limit  may be extended once
if, prior to the expiration of the 75 days, the appellant, the General
Manager and the Board mutually agree to extend this time limit for a period
not to exceed 15 days.  If the Board fails to act on any appeal within the
specified time limits, the decision of the General Manager shall be deemed
affirmed without further action by the Board.



 



   8.   The Board may reverse or modify the decision of the General
Manager and grant the appeal only when the written decision of the General
Manager is not supported by the evidence or whenever a hearing before a
Hearing Examiner was not conducted in accordance with the provisions of this
section for the conduct of hearings.



 



   9.   The decision of the Board to reverse or to modify the decision
of the General Manager shall be in writing.  The decision shall enumerate
the ground or grounds which form the basis for the Board’s action and
specify where in the record the evidence supports each ground so enumerated.



 



   10.   A decision of the Board is final.  It becomes effective when
served upon the General Manager and appellant by the Board.



 



   (r)   Reinstatement of License Privileges.  (Added by Ord. No.
165,507, Eff. 3/25/90.)  Upon the written request of the person whose
privilege to own, possess, control or be in charge of any dogs has been
terminated pursuant to Sections 53.34.4(h) or 53.63(c), the General Manager
may reinstate the privilege as to other dogs and authorize the Department to
issue a new license. In addition to any other requirement of law, the General
Manager may impose such terms, conditions or restrictions as he believes are
necessary to protect the public health, safety and welfare, and which may be
in addition to any term, condition or restriction authorized by Clause (1) of
Subdivision (l), above, or Section 53.34.4(e)(2).



 



   The General Manager’s decision shall be in writing and state the
reasons for issuing or refusing to issue the license or imposing terms,
conditions or restrictions and shall be served upon the owner in accordance
with the provisions of Subdivision (g). The owner may appeal to the Board the
refusal to issue a license or the imposition of terms, conditions or
restrictions as provided by this section.



 



   No license shall be issued until the decision is final and then only
upon the written acceptance by the owner of any terms, conditions or
restrictions finally imposed. If the owner fails to comply with the terms,
conditions or restrictions imposed herein, any license revocation hearing
shall be held pursuant to Clause (2) of Subdivision (l) this section.



 



 



SEC. 53.19.  CAT TAG – ISSUANCE OF.



   (Added by Ord. No. 142,367, Eff. 9/24/71, Oper. 10/1/71.)



 



   (a)   Upon payment of a $5.00 fee, there shall be issued at the
request of each cat owner or person having custody or control thereof, a cat
identification tag to be worn by the cat for which it is issued.



 



   (b)   The Department shall keep a record of the name and address of
the person to whom each such identification tag is issued, the number of such
tag, the date of issuance thereof and a description of the cat for which
issued.



 



   (c)   Each cat identification tag shall consist of a metal tag with
the number affixed together with the words “L.A. City.”



 



   (d)   No unauthorized person shall remove from any cat any
identification tag issued by the Department of Animal Services.



 



   (e)   (Added by Ord. No. 143,407, Eff. 7/1/72.)  The Department of
Animal Services may for the purposes of this article impound cats for the
following reasons:



 



   (1)   The cat is sick or injured;



 



   (2)   The cat is feral or starving;



 



   (3)   The owner or other person or persons authorized to relinquish



 



   possession of it, state that the cat is unwanted.



 



   (f)   No person shall attach to or keep upon any cat or make or have
in his possession any counterfeit or imitation of any tag provided for in
this section.  (Added by Ord. No. 143,407, Eff. 7/1/72.)



 



   (g)   The Department may upon statement of loss and receipt of $1.00
issue a replacement cat identification number and tag. (Amended by Ord. No.
157,035, Eff. 10/4/82, Oper. 11/1/82.)



 



 



SEC. 53.21.  DOG TAGS – WEARING OF AND REGISTRY.



 



   (a)   Such tag shall be securely affixed to a collar, harness, or
other device and shall at all times be worn by such dog, except while such
dog remains indoors or in an enclosed yard or pen.



 



   (b)   The Department shall procure the number of tags needed each
year and shall keep a record of the name and address of the person to whom
each such license is issued, the number of such tag, the date of issuance
thereof and a description of the dog for which issued. (Amended by Ord. No.
133,983, Eff. 4/1/67.)



 



   (c)   The Department may, upon acceptable proof of loss and receipt
of $5.00, issue a replacement dog license number and tag.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 185,537, Eff. 6/21/18.)



 



 



SEC. 53.22.  DOG TAG – MUST BE OFFICIAL.



 



   (a)   No person shall attach to or keep upon any dog any tag
provided for in this article except a tag issued for which dog under the
provisions of this article.



 



   (b)   Dog Tags – Imitation of. No person shall attach to or keep
upon any dog or make or have in his possession any counterfeit or imitation
of any tag provided for in this article.



 



 



SEC. 53.23.  DOG TAGS – REMOVAL OF.



 



   No unauthorized person shall remove any current valid license from any
dog. (Amended by Ord. No. 129,259, Eff. 2/19/65.)



 



 



SEC. 53.24.  RECEIPT – CERTIFICATE – FAILURE TO EXHIBIT.



 



   No person keeping or harboring a dog for which a license is required
shall fail to exhibit a license receipt, certificate of vaccination, or
exemption certificate required by this article upon demand by any employee of
the Department. (Amended by Ord. No. 133,983, Eff. 4/10/67.)



 



 



SEC. 53.25.  COLLECTION – DEPOSITING OF.



 



   All moneys received by the Department for licenses issued under the
provisions of this article and all moneys collected under actions brought as
herein provided to recover unpaid license taxes, and all moneys received by
said Department from sales of animals, or as fees from any source, shall be
paid by the Department into the City Treasury and credited to the
departmental receipts of said Department. (Amended  by Ord. No. 133,983,
Eff. 4/10/67.)



 



 



SEC. 53.26.  LICENSE TAXES – RIGHT TO SUE FOR RECOVERY.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 133,983, Eff. 4/10/67.)



 



   The amount of any license tax or penalty imposed by this article shall
be deemed a debt to the City of Los Angeles. Any person owning, having or
keeping any dog in this City without having obtained a license so to do shall
be liable to an action in the name of this City in any court of competent
jurisdiction for the amount of any license tax imposed by and required by
this article to be paid for the privilege of keeping and having such dog. It
shall be the duty of the General Manager of the Department to cause a
complaint to be filed against any person violating any of the provisions of
this article and to cause an action to be brought against any person failing
to pay any license tax required by the provisions of this article for the
recovery of such tax. Such action shall be cumulative and shall not be deemed
as a bar to or a waiver of the right of this City to prosecute any person for
a violation of this article.



 



 



SEC. 53.27.  TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP; NOTICE REQUIRED.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 181,882, Eff. 10/30/11.)



 



   The owner or operator of any dog hospital or pet shop, and any person
engaged in the business of breeding dogs or a veterinarian who sells, gives
away or in any manner causes the ownership or permanent possession of any
dog, whether over four (4) months of age or not, to be transferred to any
person, shall notify in writing the Department of that fact within five (5)
days after the date of such sale or transfer.  Such notice shall state the
kind of dog, the name of such dog, if any, and the name, address, telephone
number and if known, the electronic mail address, of the person to whom such
dog has been sold or transferred.



 



 



SEC. 53.28.  HARBORING OF UNLICENSED DOGS.



 



   No person shall have, harbor or keep any unlicensed dog that is over
the age of four months.



 



   A Municipal Corporation may require the licensing of dogs.



   People v. Harrington (1940) CR A 1701.



   People v. Harrington (1941) CR A 1828.



   In re Ackerman (1907) 6 Cal. App. 7.



   Simpson v. City of Los Angeles (1953) 40 Cal. 7 271.



 



 



SEC. 53.29.  FEMALE DOGS AND CATS, STRAYING DURING SEASON.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 130,868, Eff. 10/25/65.)



 



   Every person owning or having charge, care, custody or control of any
female dog or cat shall strictly confine such animal during its copulating
season, i.e., while it is in heat or in season, in a building or other
adequate enclosure designed to keep such dogs or cats on the premises of said
person.



 



 



SEC. 53.30.  KEEPING OF DISEASED OR CRIPPLED ANIMALS.



 



   No person shall have, keep, or harbor any animal which is known or
believed by him to be infected with any dangerous or communicable disease, or
which is in an incurable crippled condition, or which is afflicted with any
painful disease which is believed by such person to be incurable, except as
in this article otherwise provided.



 



 



SEC. 53.31.  PUBLIC SPAY AND NEUTER CLINIC.



 



   (a)   Authority for Clinic and Fees.  (Amended by Ord. No. 180,697,
Eff. 6/26/09.)  The General Manager is hereby authorized and empowered to
establish Department operated clinics at which members of the public may have
dogs and cats spayed or neutered in a humane manner upon payment of a $40.00
fee for each animal, or such other fee established in the manner set forth in
Subsection (a) of Section 53.12 and promulgated by the Department.



 



   Notwithstanding the foregoing, no fee shall be charged for spaying or
neutering a dog whose owner has applied for and qualifies to be issued a free
license under Subsection (f) of Section 53.15 of this Code for such dog.



 



   Nor shall a fee be charged for spaying or neutering a cat owned and
maintained by a person 62 years of age or older, provided that the combined
adjusted gross income of all members of the household in which such person
resides is less than the "very low income" limitation for residents of the
City of Los Angeles, using the figure in effect on the preceding first day of
April as determined by the United States Housing Act of 1937, as amended, and
published by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development. 
No more than three cats per person or household may be spayed or neutered
free of charge, except that upon satisfactory proof of loss or death of a cat
that was spayed or neutered free of charge under the provisions of this
Subsection, a replacement cat may be spayed or neutered free of charge for
the same person.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,268, Eff. 9/26/10.)



 



   (b)   Consent Form and Waiver.  (Added by Ord. No. 141,123, Eff.
11/19/70.)  Persons submitting dogs or cats for the above service shall sign
a consent form certifying thereon under penalty of perjury that they are the
owner of said animals or are otherwise authorized to present the animal for
the above operation and such persons may be required to furnish proof of such
ownership or authority.



 



   Such consent shall contain a waiver of any and all liability of the
City, the Department of Animal Services and City employees for any injury or
death to an animal arising out of the aforementioned operation or any
services provided incidental thereto.



 



   (c)   Board and Care Charge.  (Added by Ord. No. 141,123, Eff. ,
11/19/70.)  The department shall establish a return date by which persons
submitting animals for the above operation shall pick up said animals or be
subject to a reasonable board and care fee to commence the day after such
return date.



 



   Failure to pick up an animal within 15 days of said return date shall
be deemed abandonment of such animal and the General Manager may dispose of
it by sale or destruction.



 



   (d)   Suspension of fees.  The fees and charges imposed by this
section are hereby suspended for the period September 26, 1987 through and
including January 22, 1988. (Added by Ord. No. 162,744, Eff. 9/24/87.)



 



 



SEC. 53.32.  ANIMALS – DISPOSAL OF.



 



   It shall be the duty of the General Manager of the Department and he is
hereby authorized and empowered to issue and sign a death warrant and order
the destruction by any employee of the Department, of any animal lawfully
taken into custody of the Department which in the opinion of the General
Manager is, by reason of old age, unfit for further use, or which is infected
with any dangerous or communicable disease, or which is in an incurably
crippled condition, or which is adjudged by a written report of a licensed
veterinarian to be afflicted with any painful or incurable disease. (Amended
by Ord. No. 133,983, Eff. 4/10/67.)



 



   The General Manager shall issue and sign a death warrant for and
authorize the destruction by a police officer or other person of any animal
inflicted with any dangerous or communicable disease or which is in an
incurable crippled condition.



 



 



SEC. 53.33.  VICIOUS ANIMALS – PRIVATE PREMISES.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 148,943, Eff. 11/25/76.)



 



   (a)   No person, owning or having custody or control of any dog,
other than a sentry dog, or any other animal known by such person to be
vicious or dangerous, shall permit it to run at large, or permit it to run
loose on or within the premises of such person in such a manner as to
endanger the life or limb of any person lawfully entering such premises. For
the purposes of this section “sentry dog” shall mean a dog trained to
work without supervision in a fenced facility to deter or to detain persons
found within the facility.



 



   (b)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Code, no owner or
person charged with custody or control of a sentry dog shall assign or work
such dog on a premises, unless said premises is posted to warn of sentry dog
activity. Said warning shall consist of signs placed at 50-foot intervals
around the perimeter of the area guarded by the sentry dog and at all
entrances and exits to said area. Such signs shall measure 10" x 14" and
shall contain black lettering on a white background stating “WARNING -
SENTRY DOG ON DUTY,” and shall also depict the head of a dog with bared
fangs. In addition the sign shall set forth the name, address and telephone
number of the sentry dog company furnishing the dog for hire. The telephone
number shall be a telephone which is manned by a person 24 hours a day every
day of the year.



 



 



SEC. 53.34.  ANIMALS AT LARGE.



   (Title amended by Ord. No. 162,537, Eff. 8/8/87.) (Section amended by
Ord. No. 162,748, Eff. 9/24/87.)



 



   A person who owns or is in charge of or controls or who possesses a dog
or other animal who permits, allows or causes the dog or other animal to run,
stray, be uncontrolled or in any manner be in, upon, or at large upon a
public street, sidewalk, park or other public property or in or upon the
premises or private property of another person is guilty of a misdemeanor if
said dog or other animal bites, attacks or causes injury to any human being
or other animal.



 



   Any person convicted under this section or Section 53.33 shall not own,
possess, control or be in charge of any animal of the species which caused
the bite, attack or injury for a period of three (3) years from the date of
conviction. The Department shall not issue or renew any license or permit for
said species of animal, except that upon the written request of the person so
convicted, the General Manager may authorize the issuance of a dog license
pursuant to the provisions of Section 53.15(b).



 



 



SEC. 53.34.1.  MENACING DOGS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 168,864, Eff. 7/7/93.)



 



   No person, owning or having custody or control of any dog, whether or
not restrained by a substantial chain or leash, shall permit the dog to
unlawfully assault, threaten or menace any human being or other animal upon
any public street, sidewalk, park or other public property, or in or upon the
premises or private property of another.



 



 



SEC. 53.34.2.  IMPOUNDMENT – BITING OR ATTACKING ANIMAL.



   (Added by Ord. No. 162,537, Eff. 8/8/87.)



 



   (a)   The Department shall have the power to summarily and
immediately impound a dog or other animal where there is evidence it has
attacked, bitten or injured any human being or other animal pending any court
or dog license or animal permit revocation proceeding arising from the
attack, bite or injury; or to undertake a hearing pursuant to Section
53.34.4. A duly authorized Department employee may enter and inspect private
property to enforce the provisions of this section as provided by Section
53.03 of this article.



 



   Failure to surrender to the Department upon demand a dog or other
animal which is subject to being impounded pursuant to this section is a
misdemeanor.



 



   A dog or other animal, impounded pursuant to the authority of this
section, shall be returned to the owner or custodian as provided by Section
53.34.4 or when it is no longer required as evidence, or if a notice of a
hearing pursuant to Section 53.34.4 to declare the dog or other animal a
dangerous animal has not been served on the owner or custodian within seven
days after the impoundment.



 



   (b)   In lieu of impound, the General Manager may permit the dog or
other animal to be confined at the owner’s or custodian’s expense in a
Department approved dog kennel or veterinary facility within the City or at
the owner’s or custodian’s residence provided that the owner or custodian:



 



   1.   Shall not remove the dog or other animal from the kennel,
veterinary facility or residence without the prior written approval of the
General Manager or his authorized representative; and



 



   2.   Shall make the dog or other animal available for observation
and inspection by Department personnel or members of law enforcement or their
authorized representatives.



 



   (c)   The General Manager or his designated representative may have
a dog or other animal, impounded or confined as provided in (a) or (b) above,
permanently identified by means of photo identification prior to release from
impound or confinement.



 



 



SEC. 53.34.3.  RESTRICTED DOG PERMIT.



   (Added by Ord. No. 181,930, Eff. 12/11/11.)



 



   (a)   Following a hearing in accordance with Section 53.18.5 or
Section 53.34.4, if the Hearing Examiner determines that the bite, attack or
injury was the result of improper or negligent training, handling or
maintenance, and that the owner or custodian is able and willing to properly
train, handle or maintain the dog and that a similar incident is not likely
to occur if the terms, conditions and restrictions are followed, the Hearing
Examiner may recommend that a Restricted Dog Permit be issued as part of the
terms, conditions or restrictions pursuant to Subsection (l) of Section
53.18.5, to include, but not limited to, some or all of the following
additional terms, conditions or restrictions to protect the public health,
safety and welfare:



 



   1.   That in addition to the dog license tax and fee, the owner
shall pay a Restricted Dog Permit fee of $120.00 annually, which is subject
to reassessment in accordance with Section 53.12 (a).



 



   2.   That the dog owner obtain and maintain liability insurance in
an amount not less than $100,000 or in an amount determined by the City's
Risk Manager, provide proof of insurance and notify the City at least thirty
(30) days prior to cancellation or non-renewal of the insurance coverage.



 



   3.   Post warning signs at all property entrances and notify the
occupants of the adjacent property and/or within a 150 foot radius of the
Restricted Dog Permit.



 



   4.   That the dog not be transferred or placed in the custody of
another person without the written consent of the General Manager, except in
a licensed dog kennel or with a California licensed veterinarian.  The dog
owner must notify any transferee, kennel, veterinarian or other custodian
that the dog is subject to a Restricted Dog Permit.



 



   5.   Other terms, conditions and restrictions may include but are
not limited to the training, handling and maintenance of the dog, the wearing
of a muzzle, properly securing the owner's or custodian's property and that
the dog only be walked by the owner or another responsible adult.



 



   6.   That the dog owner and custodian, if separate from the owner,
sign a declaration that he or she will abide by the terms, conditions and
restrictions of the license and the Restricted Dog Permit.



 



   (b)   A Restricted Dog Permit shall not be issued for a dog that has
fatally injured a human being or to a dog owner if any current or previously
owned dog of that owner has fatally injured a human being.



 



   (c)   A Restricted Dog Permit may be rescinded by the General
Manager if the owner demonstrates that measures taken by the owner or changed
circumstances have mitigated the danger to the public, including the
permanent removal of the dog from the City.



 



   (d)   The Department may amend or revoke a Restricted Dog Permit and
the dog license following a hearing if the owner has failed to comply with
the terms, conditions or restrictions of the Permit or of the dog license.



 



 



SEC. 53.34.4.  DANGEROUS ANIMAL – PROCEDURES.



   (Added by Ord. No. 162,537, Eff. 8/8/87.)



 



   (a)   Hearing.  The Department shall conduct a hearing to determine
whether or not a dog or other animal confined or impounded pursuant to
Section 53.34.2 is a dangerous animal. The hearing shall be conducted in
accordance with the procedures provided by Section 53.18.5.



 



   (b)   Dangerous Animal – Declared.  The Department, after a
hearing, may declare any dog or other animal to be a dangerous animal
whenever it has bitten, attacked or caused injury to any human being or other
animal.



 



   (c)   Determination of Dangerous Animal – Evidence.  In making a
determination that a dog or other animal is or is not dangerous, evidence of
the following shall be considered:



 



   1.   Any previous history of the dog or other animal attacking,
biting or causing injury to a human being or other animal;



 



   2.   The nature and extent of injuries inflicted and the number of
victims involved;



 



   3.   The place where the bite, attack or injury occurred;



 



   4.   The presence or absence of any provocation for the bite, attack
or injury;



 



   5.   The extent to which property has been damaged or destroyed;



 



   6.   Whether the dog or other animal exhibits any characteristics of
being trained for fighting or attack or other evidence to show such training
or fighting;



 



   7.   Whether the dog or other animal exhibits characteristics of
aggressive or unpredictable temperament or behavior in the presence of human
beings or dogs or other animals;



 



   8.   Whether the dog or other animal can be effectively trained or
retrained to change its temperament or behavior;



 



   9.   The manner in which the dog or other animal had been maintained
by is owner or custodian;



 



   10.   Any other relevant evidence concerning the maintenance of the
dog or other animal;



 



   11.   Any other relevant evidence regarding the ability of the owner
or custodian, or the Department, to protect the public safety in the future
if the dog or other animal is permitted to remain in the City.



 



   (d)   Dangerous Animal – Disposition.



 



   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, possess, harbor or
keep any dog or other animal declared by the Department, after a hearing, to
be dangerous.



 



   2.   Any dog or other animal declared by the Department to be
dangerous, if not already impounded by the Department, shall be immediately
surrendered to the Department, and it is the duty of the Department to take
up and impound any such dog or other animal.



 



   3.   (Amended by Ord. No. 164,477, Eff. 3/27/89.) Any dog, or other
animal, declared to be a dangerous animal shall be humanely destroyed. The
General Manager shall sign an order authorizing the destruction of the dog or
other animal within two (2) days after the time for appeal as provided in
Section 53.18.5(q)3 has passed without an appeal being filed.



 



   In the event the Board has received and heard an appeal and made a
determination that the dog or other animal is a dangerous animal, copies of
that Board action shall be served upon the General Manager and appellant.
Upon expiration of five days after completion of said service, the General
Manager shall sign an order authorizing destruction of said dog or other
animal.



 



   (e)   Dog or Other Animal – Not Dangerous – Procedure. (Amended
by Ord. No. 162,748, Eff. 9/24/87.) If it is determined that the dog or other
animal is not dangerous, but that the bite, attack or injury was the result
of improper or negligent training, handling or maintenance, the dog license
or animal permit may:



 



   1.   Be revoked if it is determined that the owner or custodian is
unable or unwilling to properly train, handle or maintain the dog or other
animal and a similar incident is likely to occur in the future without proper
training, handling or maintenance, or



 



   2.   Be reissued with reasonable terms, conditions or restrictions
imposed for the training, handling or maintenance of the dog or other animal
to protect the public health, safety and welfare if it is determined that the
owner or custodian is able and willing to properly train, handle or maintain
the dog or other animal and a similar incident is not likely to occur in the
future with proper training, handling or maintenance.



 



   (f)   Revoked License – Previously Impounded or Confined.



 



   1.   If a dog or other animal has been impounded or confined
pursuant to Section 53.34.2 and its license or permit has been revoked
pursuant to (e)1 above and the owner or custodian wishes to reclaim and
remove it from the City of Los Angeles, the Department shall release it
provided that the notice provisions of Section 53.18.5(p) are complied with
prior to its release and further provided that the dog or other animal is
taken to its new location immediately and directly upon its release from
impound or confinement. Failure to remove the dog or other animal immediately
and directly from the City upon release from impound or confinement is a
misdemeanor.



 



   2.   Any dog or other animal which has previously been impounded or
otherwise confined and which has not been claimed within five (5) calendar
days of service of a notice of revocation of its license or permit shall be
deemed abandoned and shall be disposed of by the Department in accordance
with this article. Notwithstanding the above, the owner may enter into a
written agreement with the Department to take additional time to remove, or
to cause the dog or other animal to be removed, to a new location outside the
City. Such additional time shall not exceed ten (10) days. For each
additional day agreed to, the pound fees required by Section 53.12 shall be
paid prior to the release of the dog or other animal.



 



   (g)   Animal Identification.  Any dog or other animal subject to
this section must be permanently identified by the Department by the use of
photographs or permanent marking, or both, prior to its release from impound
or confinement.



 



   (h)   New License Prohibited.  (Amended by Ord. No. 165,507, Eff.
3/25/90.)  Any person whose dog or other animal has been declared dangerous
or whose license or permit has been revoked pursuant to this section shall
not have the privilege to own, posses, control or be in charge of any animal
of the species whose license or permit has been revoked or whose animal has
been declared dangerous for a period of three (3) years from the date the
decision becomes final and the Department shall not issue, re-issue or renew
any license or permit except that a dog license may be issued as provided by
Section 53.18.5(r).



 



 



SEC. 53.35.  ANIMALS – TRANSPORTATION OF.



 



   No person shall transport or carry on the running board of any motor
vehicle or outside of the portion of any motor vehicle designed for
passengers or of the tonneau or body thereof any animal unless such animal is
protected by a framework or other device which will prevent such animal from
falling off or being thrown from such motor vehicle during the operation
thereof.



 



 



SEC. 53.36.  RESISTING OFFICERS OR EMPLOYEES.



 



   No person shall hinder, resist or oppose the General Manager or
employees or representatives of the Department or any police officer in the
performance of their duties under this article, or conceal or secrete any
unlicensed dog from any such officer or person. (Amended by Ord. No. 133,983,
Eff. 4/10/67.)



 



 



SEC. 53.37.  DOGS – EXEMPTIONS.



 



   The provisions of Sections 53.15 and 53.15.3 shall not apply to any dog
owned by, or in charge or care of, any person who is a non-resident of this
City and either traveling through this City or temporarily residing in this
City for a period not to exceed thirty days or to any dog brought temporarily
to this City for the exclusive purpose of entering the animal in a bench show
or dog exhibition and kept exclusively at such bench show or dog exhibition
while in this City. (Amended by Ord. No. 162,538, Eff. 8/27/87.)



 



 



SEC. 53.38.  WILD ANIMALS – KEEPING – PERMIT.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 133,983, Eff. 4/10/67.)



 



   No person shall have, keep or maintain any wild, exotic, dangerous or
non-domestic animal or reptile without first applying to and receiving from
the Department a permit so to do.



 



   Provided, however, that the keeping or maintenance of such animals
shall conform to the zoning regulations set forth in Article 2, Chapter I of
this Code.



 



 



SEC. 53.39.  WILD ANIMALS – POWER OF DEPARTMENT OVER.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 133,983, Eff. 4/10/67.)



 



   The Department is hereby invested with the authority to issue permits
to any person for the keeping or maintaining of any wild, exotic, dangerous
or non-domestic animal or reptile when, in the opinion of the General
Manager, any such animal or reptile may be kept or maintained without
menacing the safety of any person or property; provided, however, that the
Department may require any such animal or reptile to be properly caged or
secured or may make additional rules or regulations regulating the keeping or
maintaining of any such animal or reptile, and may revoke any such permit for
any violation of any of the provisions of this article or of any of the rules
and regulations of the Department, or when, in the opinion of the General
Manager, the safety of any person or property is menaced by the keeping of
any such animal or reptile.



 



   Provided further, that the Department shall also have authority to
issue permits for the keeping or maintaining, on a temporary basis, of all
types of wild animals or reptiles in connection with a circus, amusement
enterprise or animal exhibition when located in a zone wherein such uses are
permitted pursuant to Article 2, Chapter I of this Code.



 



   Revocation of permits shall follow the procedure outlined in Sec. 22.02
of this Code.



 



 



SEC. 53.40.  BULL FIGHTS.



 



   No person shall promote, stage, hold, manage, conduct or carry on, any
bull fight, bull dodging contest, or any contest, game or fight of a similar
nature.



 



 



SEC. 53.41.  ANIMALS – FOOD POISONING.



 



   No person shall place, leave or expose, in any place accessible to
birds, fowls, domestic animals, dogs, cats or other such animals with the
intent to kill or harm such birds, fowls, or animals, any poisonous substance
or ingredient, or any edible or any other substance or ingredient which has
in any manner been treated or prepared with any poisonous substance or
ingredient.



 



 



SEC. 53.42.  ANIMALS, SALE OF – AS NOVELTIES – ON STREETS.



 



   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to display, sell, offer
for sale, barter or give away, upon any street or sidewalk, or other public
place in the City of Los Angeles, any rabbits, baby chicks, ducklings or
other fowl, as pets or novelties, whether or not dyed, colored or otherwise
artificially treated.



 



   (b)   No person shall sell, offer for sale, barter or display any
rabbits, baby chicks, ducklings or other fowl which have been dyed, colored
or otherwise treated so as to impart to them an artificial color.



 



   (c)   No person shall sell, offer for sale, barter or give away any
rabbits, baby chicks, ducklings or other fowl unless such person provides
proper brooder facilities for the care of such baby chicks, ducklings or
other fowl during the time they are in the possession of such person.



 



   (d)   No person shall sell, offer for sale, barter or give away any
rabbits, baby chicks, ducklings or other fowl under four weeks of age in any
quantity less than six.



 



   (e)   This section shall not be construed to prohibit the display or
sale of rabbits, natural chicks, ducklings or other fowl, in proper
facilities by dealers, hatcheries or stores engaged in the business of
selling the same, to be raised for food purposes.



 



   (f)   It shall be unlawful for any person to display, sell, offer
for sale, barter or give away, upon any street or sidewalk of the City of Los
Angeles, as pets or novelties:  (1) any fish, turtle, snake, lizard,
chameleon or other reptile; (2) any bird, cat, dog, fowl, guinea pig, rodent
or other animal.



 



   (g)   This section shall not be construed to prohibit the display or
sale of animals, birds, fish or reptiles legally for sale in licensed pet
shops, kennels, aviaries or fish hatcheries.



 



   (h)   It shall be unlawful for any person to purchase, offer to
purchase, barter or receive without cost, upon any street or sidewalk of the
City of Los Angeles or other public place in the City of Los Angeles: (1) any
baby chicks, ducklings, birds or other fowl; (2) any fish, turtle, snake,
lizard, chameleon or other reptile; or (3) any rabbit, cat, dog, guinea pig,
rodent or other animal.  (Added by Ord. No. 181,851, Eff. 9/25/11.)



 



   (i)   (Deleted by Ord. No. 183,271, Eff. 11/14/14.)



 



 



SEC. 53.43.  PIGEONS – FEEDING – RESTRICTED AREA.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 160,083, Eff. 8/3/85.)



 



   No person shall feed any pigeons upon any public street or sidewalk or
in any public park in that portion of this City bounded and described as
follows:



 



   Beginning at the intersection of the center line of First Street with
the center line of Los Angeles Street; thence southwesterly along the center
line of Los Angeles Street to the center line of Eighth Street; thence
northwesterly along the center line of Eighth Street to the center line of
Main Street; thence southwesterly along the center line of Main Street to the
center line of Ninth Street; thence northwesterly along the center line of
Ninth Street to the center line of Olive Street; thence northeasterly along
the center line of Olive Street to the center line of Eighth Street; thence
northwesterly along the center line of Eighth Street to the center line of
Flower Street; thence southwesterly along the center line of Flower Street to
the center line of Ninth Street; thence northwesterly along the center line
of Ninth Street to the center line of Figueroa Street; thence northeasterly
along the center line of Figueroa Street to the center line of Sixth Street;
thence southeasterly along the center line of Sixth Street to the center line
of Olive Street; thence northeasterly along the center line of Olive Street
to the center line of First Street; thence southeasterly along the center
line of First Street to the point of beginning.



 



 



SEC. 53.44.  VETERINARIES - NOTICES OF DEATH OF ANIMALS.



 



   Every person owning or operating any veterinary hospital or other
establishment for the treatment of animals, shall notify the owner of any
animal left in such hospital or institution for treatment, of the death of
such animal, within twenty-four (24) hours after the death, provided the
address of the owner has been filed in the office of the veterinary hospital
or other institution.



 



 



SEC. 53.45.  VETERINARIES - RETENTION OF DEAD ANIMALS.



 



   Every person owning or operating any veterinary hospital or other
establishment for the treatment of animals, shall hold any animals which die
therein for a period of twelve (12) hours after notification of the death of
such animal has been sent to the owner thereof.



 



 



SEC. 53.46.  WILD BIRDS – IMPOUNDING – CRATING.



 



   (a)   No person shall impound any wild or domestic fowl or bird
unless provision is made by such person, for the proper feeding and the
furnishing of water to such fowl or bird at intervals not longer than twelve
hours apart.



 



   (b)   No person shall impound any wild or domestic fowl or bird in a
crate, box or other enclosure, which crate, box or other enclosure, is less
than twice as large in floor space or standing room as the total size of all
fowls or birds which may be impounded therein, and which is not sufficiently
high to permit each fowl or bird impounded therein to stand in a natural
erect position.



 



 



SEC. 53.47.  BREEDING ANIMALS – ENCLOSURES.



 



   No person shall let to a mare any stallion or jack, or let to a cow any
bull, or let to a sow any boar, or let to a bitch any dog, or let to a nanny
goat any goat, except within an enclosure so arranged as to obstruct such
animals entirely from the view of all persons outside of such enclosure.



 



 



SEC. 53.48.  SONG BIRDS – KILLING.



 



   No person shall kill any song bird or destroy or rob the nest of any
such bird.



 



 



SEC. 53.49.  DOGS - DOG DEFECATION TO BE REMOVED BY OWNERS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 183,271, Eff. 11/14/14.)



 



   It shall be unlawful for the owner or person having custody of any dog
to fail to immediately remove and dispose of in a sanitary manner, by
replacing in a closed or sealed container and depositing in a trash
receptacle, any feces deposited by such dog upon public or private property,
without the consent of the public or private owner or person in lawful
possession of the property, other than property owned or controlled by the
owner or person having custody of such dog. The provisions of this subsection
shall not apply to a blind person being accompanied by a guide dog.



 



 



SEC. 53.50.  PERMITS.



   (Title Amended by Ord. No. 185,537, Eff. 6/21/18.)



 



   (a)   Permit Required.  No person, without first obtaining a permit
therefor in writing from the Department, shall keep, conduct or operate
within the City of Los Angeles any dog kennel, cat kennel, pet shop, zoo,
animal rental establishment, animal grooming parlor, riding academy, livery
stable, boarding stable, pony ring or pony ride, horse market, mule market,
circus, rodeo, pet show, cat show, animal acts or exhibitions, alligator
farm, ostrich farm, wild animals, miscellaneous animal or reptile
establishment, or carrier and homing pigeons which are to be liberated for
exercise or racing.  (Amended by Ord. No. 170,171, Eff. 1/20/95.)



 



   (b)   Application – Contents of.  Each application for permit
hereunder shall be in writing upon a form to be furnished by the Department,
and shall contain such information as the General Manager, by rule or
regulation shall require. (Amended by Ord. No. 133,983, Eff. 4/10/67.)



 



   All permits issued by the Department as required by this article shall
expire one year from the date of issuance, unless sooner revoked or
suspended, unless issued for a shorter period of time in the manner set forth
in this article, or unless the holder of such permit changes the location of
his place of business, or sells, assigns, transfers or otherwise disposes of
such business or his interest therein for a period of 30 days.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 185,537, Eff. 6/21/18.)



 



   Upon the expiration of any permit and within thirty days thereafter,
the permittee shall apply for and secure a renewal of the permit in the
manner provided for in this article upon paying the proper fees. Upon failure
to make application for renewal of such permit within the time herein
provided, the applicant shall pay, in addition to the regular permit fee, a
penalty of 15% of any such renewal fee.



 



   All permits issued hereunder shall be kept posted in a conspicuous
place.



 



   (c)   Investigation. Upon the filing of each application hereunder,
either for an original permit or a renewal thereof, the Department shall make
such investigation as it deems proper. It shall then issue a permit to the
applicant if it finds that:  (Amended by Ord. No. 133,983, Eff. 4/10/67.)



 



   1.   The keeping of animals, or the conduct or operation of the
business for which the permit is requested, and at the place set forth in the
application, will not violate any law or ordinance of this City, or any law
of the State of California; and



 



   2.   The keeping of animals, or the conduct or operation of the
business for which the permit is requested will not constitute a menace to
the health, peace or safety of the community; and



 



   3.   The premises and establishment where animals are to be kept is
maintained in a clean and sanitary condition, and that animals will not be
subject to needless suffering, unnecessary cruelty or abuse; and



 



   4.   The applicant has not had a permit revoked within one year
prior to the application.



 



   (d)   Revocation or Suspension – Grounds – Procedure. Any permit
issued hereunder may be revoked or suspended under the procedure outlined in
Sec. 22.02 of this Code, if, after due investigation, the Department finds: 
(Amended by Ord. No. 133,983, Eff. 4/10/67.)



 



   1.   That the permittee, his agent, or employee, has been convicted
of any offense involving the violation of Section 597 of the Penal Code of
the State of California, or any provision of this article; or



 



   2.   That the permittee, his agent, or employee, has, at the place
for which the permit was issued, failed to provide any animal, fowl or
reptile in his possession, care or control, with proper and sufficient food,
drink, shelter, or protection, or subjected any such animal, fowl or reptile
to needless suffering, unnecessary cruelty, or abuse; or



 



   3.   That the permittee, his agent, or employee, has failed to
maintain the premises in a clean and sanitary condition; or



 



   4.   That the permittee, his agent, or employee, has violated any
rule or regulation of the Department.  (Amended by Ord. No. 133,983, Eff.
4/10/67.)



 



   (e)   Rules and Regulations.  The General Manager is hereby
authorized to adopt such rules and regulations reasonably necessary to carry
out the purpose of this article, and to ensure the maintenance of approved
and humane conditions at any place for which a permit is granted hereunder. 
Before granting a permit for a pet shop, the General Manager shall consider
the pet shop's location, size, operations, and other significant features,
including, but not limited to, the proposed number and type of animals to be
present.  No permit shall be issued to any pet shop unless the pet shop
agrees to obtain its dogs, cats, or rabbits only from an animal shelter
operated by the City or County of Los Angeles.  The General Manager shall
impose reasonable restrictions as part of the pet shop permit to ensure that
the pet shop will not unreasonably subject adjacent businesses or the
surrounding neighborhood to unwarranted noise and odor, and will protect the
public health, welfare, and safety.  A copy of such rules and regulations
shall be furnished to each applicant upon the filing of a permit
application.  (Amended by Ord. No. 186,373, Eff. 12/10/19.)



 



   (f)   Permit Fees.  The Department, before receiving any
application for granting of any permit required by this section, may require
the payment of an annual permit fee of the type and in the amount set forth
in this section as follows, or as revised in the manner set forth in
Subsection (a) of Section 53.12 or other sections of this article:  (Amended
by Ord. No. 185,537, Eff. 6/21/18.)



 



   1.   Dog Kennel.....$305.00



 



   2.   Cat Kennel.....$290.00



 



   3.   Pet Shop.....$290.00



 



   4.   Zoo.....$220.00



 



   5.   Animal Rental Establishment.....$290.00



 



   6.   Pet Show, Dog Show.....$425.00



 



   7.   Alligator or Ostrich Farm.....$290.00



 



   8.   Miscellaneous Animal or Reptile Establishment.....$205.00



 



   9.   Circus (veterinarian review not required).....$4,000.00



 



   10.   Circus (veterinarian review required).....$8,600.00



 



   11.   Rodeo.....$1,660.00



 



   12.   Homing Pigeons.....$290.00



 



   13.   Riding Academy, Livery Stable, Board Stable, Pony Ride, Horse
Market or Mule Market.....$325.00



 



   14.   Animal Grooming Parlor.....$180.00



 



   15.   Filming with Animals.....$680.00



 



   16.   Keeping Wild Animals.....$290.00



 



   17.   Animal Acts or Exhibitions.....$425.00



 



   The fees imposed herein for a pet show or a dog show shall be waived if
the show is held in a public park.



 



 



SEC. 53.51.  VACCINATION OF DOGS REQUIRED.



 



   Every person who owns or harbors any dog over the age of four months in
the city shall have such dog vaccinated against rabies by a duly licensed
veterinarian of his choice, or at a Vaccination Clinic sponsored by the
Southern California Veterinary Medical Association, except as provided in
Section 53.52. (Amended by Ord. No. 127,508, Eff. 6/29/64.)



 



 



SEC. 53.52.  EXEMPTIONS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 106,995, Eff. 3/24/56.)



 



   Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary herein, no dog need be
vaccinated for rabies where:



 



   (1)   A licensed veterinarian has examined the dog and certified
that at such time vaccination would endanger the dog’s health because of
its age, infirmity, debility, or other physiological consideration; and



 



   (2)   Such certificate is presented to the Health Officer within
five days of such examination; and



 



   (3)   The Health Officer concurs in the opinion of the veterinarian
contained in such certificate and endorses on such certificate his approval
thereof, such certificate must bear the date of issuance and must be renewed
each year; or



 



   (4)   The dog is kept in the house, or in a fenced yard adequate to
confine the animal at all times and the owner or person in charge of control
of the dog furnishes the Department with his signed statement to that effect,
or



 



   (5)   The dog, meeting the above requirements, is kept on a leash in
accordance with the existing city leash law.



 



 



SEC. 53.53.  DUTY OF VETERINARIANS PERFORMING VACCINATIONS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 181,882, Eff. 10/30/11.)



 



   Each duly licensed veterinarian, after vaccinating any dog, shall sign
a certificate containing the following information:



 



   1.   The name and address of the owner or custodian of the
vaccinated dog;



 



   2.    The kind of vaccine used and the date of the vaccination;



 



   3.    The year and serial number of the dog tag;



 



   4.    The breed, age, color and sex of the vaccinated dog; and



 



   5.    Such other information as the General Manager may require or
such other information as may be required by State law.



 



   The veterinarian shall immediately present one copy of the rabies
vaccination documentation to the owner of the vaccinated dog.  A second copy
shall be forwarded to the Department of Animal Services within five (5)
calendar days after the end of the month in which the vaccination was
administered, on a form and in a manner prescribed by the Department,
including but not limited to electronic transmission or facsimile, consistent
with State law.  A copy of the certificate shall also be retained by the
veterinarian.



 



 



SEC. 53.54.  VACCINATION CERTIFICATES, PROOF OF STERILIZATION AND OTHER
PROOF TO BE RETAINED BY OWNER.



   (Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 181,882, Eff. 10/30/11.)



 



   A copy of the vaccination certificate or other proof of vaccination and
proof of sterilization or proof of exemption from sterilization, in a form
acceptable to the Department, shall be retained by the owner or custodian of
any dog and where applicable, for any cat, for inspection by the authorized
representatives of the Department.



 



 



SEC. 53.55.  DOGS ON BEACHES PROHIBITED – EXCEPTION.



   (Added by Ord. No. 123,426. Eff. 1/24/63.)



 



   (a)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Code, no person
shall take any dog upon any public beach in the City of Los Angeles, nor
shall any person owning or having charge, care or control of any dog cause,
permit or allow such dog to be upon any such beach.



 



   (b)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to dogs which
have been especially trained for and are used as 



 



   (1)   guide dogs for the blind, 



 



   (2)   signal dogs for the hearing impaired and



 



   (3)   service dogs for persons with disabilities other than visual
or hearing, while such dogs are being used for such purposes.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 170,442, Eff. 5/4/95.)



 



   (c)   (Deleted by Ord. No. 183,271, Eff. 11/14/14.)



 



 



SEC. 53.56.  IMPORTED DOGS.



 



   Every person bringing any dog into the City shall comply with the laws,
rules and regulations of the State of California and the City of Los Angeles
relating to dogs. Any dog brought into the City which has not been vaccinated
within thirty (30) months with an approved vaccine prior to importation shall
be vaccinated in accordance with the provisions of this article within thirty
(30) days after its arrival in the City. If the imported dog remains in the
City for more than thirty (30) days, the dog shall be licensed in accordance
with the provisions of this article. A certificate of vaccination issued by a
duly licensed veterinarian from other jurisdiction for the specific dog,
establishing vaccination with a vaccine approved by and in a manner
prescribed by the State Department of Health, may be accepted by the
Department of Animal Services as evidence of vaccination. (Amended by Ord.
No. 150,337, Eff. 1/1/78.)



 



 



SEC. 53.57.  UNLAWFUL POSSESSION – CERTIFICATES.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 129,259, Eff. 2/19/65.)



 



   Only those persons who own or harbor a dog duly vaccinated in
accordance with the provisions of this article, or meet exemption
qualifications shall possess the completed vaccination certificates.



 



   It shall be unlawful for any person except a licensed veterinarian, or
a licensed vendor of the vaccine to make use of or have in his possession any
uncompleted vaccination certificate. It shall be unlawful for any person to
make use of or have in his possession a stolen or counterfeit vaccination
certificate.



 



 



SEC. 53.58.  RULES AND REGULATIONS.



 



   The General Manager may adopt and enforce reasonable rules and
regulations to carry out the purposes of this article. The General Manager
may amend such rules and regulations from time to time. Such rules and
regulations and amendments thereto shall take effect upon publication in a
newspaper of general circulation in this City. Violation of such rules and
regulations shall be a misdemeanor. (Amended by Ord. No. 133,983, Eff.
4/10/67.)



 



 



SEC. 53.59.  ANIMALS – DISTANCES – SEPARATION FROM DWELLING.



 



   The Department shall, by its rules, establish the minimum distance from
dwellings, churches, schools, office buildings, business establishments and
other occupancies, within which animals, and the cages, coops, or other
enclosures required for their keeping may be maintained. (Amended by Ord. No.
133,983, Eff. 4/10/67.)



 



   Notwithstanding the above, the minimum distance between dwellings and
structures and enclosures for the housing of equines, or equine uses of land
shall be governed by Chapter I, Article 2 of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code.  (Para. added by Ord. No. 170,321, Eff. 3/5/95.)



 



 



SEC. 53.60.  CARRIER AND HOMING PIGEONS – PERMITS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 127,508, Eff. 6/29/67.)



 



   No person shall liberate, for exercise or racing, carrier or homing
pigeons unless a permit to do so has been first obtained from the Department.
(Amended by Ord. No. 150,337, Eff. 1/1/78.)



 



 



SEC. 53.62.  ANIMALS; BURIAL OF.



 



   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, no person in
whose possession any animal or fowl dies shall fail or neglect to notify
forthwith the Board of Public Works, at the refuse station maintained by said
Board, of the presence of a dead animal or fowl, and the address where the
carcass thereof may be found.  (Amended by Ord. No. 143,146, Eff. 4/27/72.)



 



   (b)   No person shall bury any animal or fowl in the City except in
an established cemetery. The death of any such animal or fowl which is to be
buried in any such cemetery need not be reported to the Board of Public Works
as in this section provided.  (Amended by Ord. No. 127,508, Eff. 6/29/64.)



 



   (c)   The provisions of Subsections (a) and (b) of this section do
not apply when the animal or animals that died were determined before or
after their deaths to have had Exotic Newcastle Disease by one or more
persons then engaged in a program instituted by the Animal and Plant Health
Service of the United States Department of Agriculture to eradicate Exotic
Newcastle Disease. (Amended by Ord. No. 143,378, Eff. 5/15/72.)



 



 



SEC. 53.63.  BARKING DOG NOISE.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 162,538, 8/27/87.)



 



   It shall be unlawful for any person (hereinafter in this section
referred to as the owner) to permit any dog or dogs under his or her charge,
care, custody or control to emit any excessive noise after the Department has
issued a written notice to the owner of the dog or dogs emitting the alleged
excessive noise and after the procedures as set forth below have been
followed.  For purposes of this section, the term "excessive noise" shall
mean noise which is unreasonably annoying, disturbing, offensive, or which
unreasonably interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property of
one or more persons occupying property in the community or neighborhood,
within reasonable proximity to the property where the dog or dogs are kept. 
Factors that the Department may use to determine whether the barking is
excessive may include, but are not limited to, the following:  (i) the
nature, frequency and volume of the noise; (ii) the tone and repetitiveness;
(iii) the time of day or night; (iv) the distance from the complaining or
affected party or parties; (v) the number of neighbors affected by or
complaining about the noise; (vi) any other relevant evidence demonstrating
that the barking is unduly disruptive; and (vii) whether the dog is being
provoked.  The provisions of this section shall not apply to any commercial
animal establishment permitted by zoning law.  The Department is responsible
for enforcement of the provisions of this section as follows:  (Amended by
Ord. No. 185,021, Eff. 8/6/17.)



 



   (a)   First Complaint.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,930, Eff.
12/11/11.)



 



   1.   Upon receiving a written complaint involving excessive noise,
the Department shall issue a written notice to the owner advising the owner
of the noise complaint and requesting immediate abatement.  The written
notice shall describe the excessive noise factors that form the basis of the
complaint.  (Amended by Ord. No. 185,021, Eff. 8/6/17.)



 



   2.   Complaints to the Department must be submitted in writing, and
shall include the name, address and telephone number of the complainant(s) as
well as the address of the dog owner and a description of the noise.



 



   (b)   Second Complaint.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,930, Eff.
12/11/11.)



 



   1.   If, after 15 days from the issuance of the written notice
pursuant to Subsection (a) above, a second complaint is received from the
complainant along with a written complaint from an additional complainant
residing in a separate residence within reasonable proximity to the dog(s),
the Department shall, by written notice, require the complainant or
complainants and the owner of the dog or dogs to appear at a meeting before a
Department representative to discuss possible ways to resolve the problem. 
The Department may proceed with a meeting based on a second complaint from
only one complainant if the Department determines that the noise affects that
complainant.  If the problem remains unresolved, the matter shall be set for
hearing as provided by Section 53.18.5.  (Amended by Ord. No. 185,021, Eff.
8/6/17.)



 



   2.   If the owner fails to appear before the Department
representative, and there is evidence that the dog or dogs have emitted
excessive noise, the problem shall be deemed unresolved, and the matter set
for hearing as provided by Section 53.18.5.



 



   (c)   New License Prohibited.  (Amended by Ord. No. 165,507, Eff.
3/25/90.)  Any person whose dog license has been revoked pursuant to this
section shall not have the privilege to own, possess, control or be in charge
of any dog for a period of one (1) year from the date the decision becomes
final and the Department shall not issue, reissue or renew any license except
as provided by Section 53.18.5(r).



 



   (d)   Notice Requirements.  Notice required pursuant to this
section shall be given in the manner provided by Section 53.18.5(g)



 



   (e)   Exemption.  (Added by Ord. No. 172,735, Eff. 9/9/99.)  This
section shall not apply to any person using guard and/or sentry dogs on lots
zoned CCS, M1, M2, MR1, and MR2, as long as that person, at the time when the
complaint of excessive noise is lodged with the Department, is in full
compliance with the requirements of Sections 53.64 and 53.66 of this Code.



 



 



SEC. 53.64.  REGULATION OF SENTRY DOG SERVICES.



   (Title and Section amended by Ord. No. 157,093, Eff. 11/6/82.)



 



   Purpose of Section – The need for technical skill, training and
experience, and other fundamental qualities and qualifications in persons
engaged in the business of providing sentry dog services, of training sentry
dogs, and of handling sentry dogs having been established and demonstrated,
and in order to safeguard the health and safety or the general public, of
persons who acquire such dogs and of the dogs themselves, it is the purpose
of the City of Los Angeles, in enacting this ordinance, to make appropriate
provision for the licensing and regulation of sentry dog businesses,
trainers, handlers, and owners.



 



   A.   Definitions.



 



   (1)   “Sentry Dog” means any dog trained to guard, protect,
patrol or defend any premises, area or yard, or any dog trained as a sentry
or to protect, defend or guard any person or property or any dog which is
schutzhund or any similar classification.



 



   (2)   “Trainer” means any person who engages in the practice of
training a sentry dog in or for placement in the City of Los Angeles.



 



   (3)   “Handler” means any person who has custody of sentry dogs
for transportation, placement, drop-off, or pickup to or at a location within
the City of Los Angeles as part of a sentry dog service.



 



   (4)   “Sentry Dog Service” means engaging in the business of
providing sentry dogs in the City of Los Angeles.



 



   (5)   “Person” means any individual, partnership, firm, joint
stock company, corporation, association, trust, estate, or other legal entity.



 



   (6)   “Owner” means any person who has purchased or obtained
legal custody of a sentry dog.



 



   (7)   “Licensee” means any person licensed pursuant to the
provisions of this section.



 



   B.   Licensing.



 



   (1)   No person shall engage in the business of providing sentry dog
service in the City of Los Angeles, or engage in the practice of training
sentry dogs or hold himself or herself out as being able to do so, or act as
a handler, unless licensed pursuant to this section.



 



   (2)   No person shall own or have the care or custody of a sentry
dog unless the person has secured a sentry dog license, tag, and
identification number from the Department of Animal Services. The fee for
each sentry dog license shall be fifty dollars ($50.00) per year  (Fee
Amended by Ord. No. 170,171, Eff. 1/20/95.). The payment of the fee for the
sentry dog license shall be in lieu of the dog license tax imposed by Section
53.15 of this article.



 



   (3)   The General Manager of the Department of Animal Services shall
establish such standards as he or she deems necessary and proper to carry out
the purposes of this section in determining the fitness of applicants for
sentry dog trainer or handler, and for the sentry dogs themselves, and shall
promulgate rules and regulations to effectuate the licensing and tagging of
each dog as are deemed necessary. Each applicant for sentry dog trainer or
handler shall satisfy the General Manager that he or she is qualified by
training or experience to train or handle sentry dogs, to provide humane care
and treatment of all dogs under his or her jurisdiction, and that he or she
has adequate facilities for such training or handling. In formulating such
standards, the General Manager shall seek the assistance of a committee of
not less than three persons knowledgeable in the field of sentry dog
training. Such standards shall include veterinary and health care standards
to be observed by trainers and handlers. The General Manager shall appoint
the members of the committee for three year terms. The initial appointments
to the committee shall consist of one member for a one year term, one member
for a two year term, and all other members for a three year term. The members
of the committee may be replaced by the General Manager, without cause, prior
to the expiration of their terms.



 



   C.   Rules and Regulations.  Pursuant to the procedures set forth
in the Los Angeles Municipal Code the General Manager may make such rules and
regulations as are reasonably necessary to:



 



   (1)   Establish the procedures and responsibilities of the committee;



 



   (2)   Establish and administer an examination of applicants for a
license to train or handle sentry dogs. Any person possessing a license to
train sentry dogs may also handle sentry dogs without the necessity of a
handler’s license;



 



   (3)   Issue annual licenses for sentry dog services, trainers, and
handlers;



 



   (4)   Regulate the annual renewal of licenses including the
necessity of reexamination of trainers and handlers.



 



   D.   Application For Licenses.



 



   (1)   An application for a license to operate, maintain, and conduct
a sentry dog service in the City shall be filed together with an application
fee of two hundred dollars ($200.00) (Fee Amended by Ord. No. 170,171, Eff.
1/20/95.) with the Department of Animal Services. An annual fee of one
hundred dollars ($100.00) (Fee Amended by Ord. No. 170,171, Eff. 1/20/95.)
shall be required for the renewal of a business license. The application
shall state the name, address and type of organization of the sentry dog
service, its method of operation, the names, addresses and physical
description of its officers, proprietors, and employees, and such other
identification and information including, but not limited to, fingerprints
and recent photographs of the applicant, its officers, proprietors, and
employees as may be deemed necessary by the General Manager of the Department
of Animal Services.



 



   (2)   The application for a license to conduct a sentry dog service
in the City, and each annual renewal request, must be accompanied by a surety
bond underwritten by a corporate surety admitted to do business in
California, in a form approved by the City Attorney, in the sum of $15,000.00
blanket coverage for each and all employees, officers, and proprietors of the
sentry dog service. The bond shall be conditioned upon the faithful and
honest conduct of the business of sentry dog service by the licensee and also
conditioned upon faithful compliance with all of the ordinances of the City
and the laws of the State of California, in force, or which may thereafter be
adopted. The licensee and sureties named in the bond, and their successors
and assigns, shall be jointly and severally liable to the City and to any
person, firm or corporation for damages suffered by reason of the wrongful
acts of the licensee, its officers, employees, or proprietors in breach of
the condition of the bond. The bond shall not be void upon any one or more
recoveries thereunder, but may be sued and recovered upon from time to time
by any person, firm or corporation aggrieved or damaged, to the extent
thereof. The bond shall be renewed to its original amount on each
anniversary. Notice of any proposed cancellation of the bond shall be sent by
registered mail to the Insurance and Bonds Section of the Office of the City
Attorney and to the Department of Animal Services not less than 30 days in
advance of the cancellation date.



 



   (3)   A sentry dog service shall furnish evidence of the following
insurance with the Department of Animal Services upon request: workers’
compensation, general liability, and automobile liability.



 



   (4)   Each applicant for a sentry dog trainer license shall be a
natural person and have at least 2000 hours of actual commercial experience
as a trainer and have trained seven (7) dogs; or an equivalent amount of
experience, as determined by the committee or General Manager. Each applicant
for a sentry dog trainer license shall pay at the time of filing the
application the sum of two hundred dollars ($200.00)  (Fee Amended by Ord.
No. 170,171, Eff. 1/20/95.) to the Department of Animal Services. An annual
fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) (Fee Amended by Ord. No. 170,171, Eff.
1/20/95.) shall be required for the renewal of a license.



 



   (5)   Each applicant for a sentry dog handler license shall be a
natural person and shall pay a fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) at the
time of filing the application. An annual fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) shall
be required for the renewal of a license.



 



   E.   Necessity of License.  It shall be unlawful for any person to
engage in any business or occupation licensed under this section within the
City of Los Angeles unless such person holds a valid and unimpaired license
pursuant to the provisions of this section. Violation of any provision of
this section is a misdemeanor.



 



   F.   Denial of License.  The General Manager may refuse to issue a
license to a sentry dog service, trainer, or handler on the grounds that the
applicant, or an officer or managing employee of the applicant, has committed
or sustained one of the following within the last five (5) years:



 



   (1)   Conviction of a crime. A conviction within the meaning of this
section means a plea or verdict of guilty or a plea of nolo contendre. Any
action which the General Manager is permitted to take following the
establishment of a conviction may be taken when the time for appeal has
elapsed, or the judgment of conviction has been affirmed or on appeal and is
final, or when an order granting probation is made suspending the imposition
of sentence, irrespective of a subsequent order under the provisions of
Section 1203.4 of the Penal Code; or



 



   (2)   Any act involving dishonesty, fraud, or deceit with the intent
to benefit oneself or another, or injure another; or



 



   (3)   Any act involving violence with the intent to benefit oneself
or another, or injure another; or



 



   (4)   Any act involving cruelty to an animal; or



 



   (5)   Any act which if done by a licensee would be grounds for
suspension or revocation of the license.



 



   The General Manager may deny a license pursuant to this subsection only
if the crime or act is related to the qualifications, functions or duties of
a sentry dog service, trainer or handler. The General Manager may also refuse
to issue a license under this section if the General Manager determines that
the applicant has made any false statements or given any false information in
connection with any application required under this section.



 



   G.   Grounds for Suspension or Revocation of License.  The General
Manager may suspend or revoke a license issued under this section if the
General Manager determines that the licensee has:



 



   (1)   Made any false statement or given any false information in
connection with an application for a license, renewal of a license, or
reinstatement of a license;



 



   (2)   Violated any provision of this Article;



 



   (3)   Violated any rule or regulation of the General Manager adopted
pursuant to the authority contained in this section;



 



   (4)   Committed any act which would be grounds for denial of a
license;



 



   (5)   A sentry dog service has employed or permitted a person to act
as a sentry dog trainer or handler within the City of Los Angeles, as defined
in this section, who is not in possession of a valid license issued pursuant
to this section.



 



   H.   Revocation or Suspension of License.  Any license issued under
this section may be revoked or suspended under the procedure contained in
Section 22.02 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.



 



   I.   Qualification of a Dog.  No person shall sell, give away or
let for hire any sentry dog unless the following requirements have been met:



 



   (1)   The dog has been immunized against distemper and rabies;



 



   (2)   A certificate of rabies vaccination is current and valid,
issued by a licensed veterinarian.



 



   J.   Identification Tag.  Every trainer, handler, or owner of a
sentry dog shall see to it that such sentry dog wears a clearly visible tag
issued by the Department of Animal Services. Such tag shall have stamped or
printed thereon the words “Sentry Dog, City of Los Angeles, Department of
Animal Services, Fiscal Year...., if found, call 485-5763.” Such tag shall
be suspended not less than three quarters of an inch and not more than two
inches from the collar worn by the dog. Said collar shall be composed of
leather affixed with suitable metal buckle or metal training collar (choke
chain) to prevent loss of identification tag. Lost or stolen tags shall be
reported to the Department and shall be immediately replaced by the
Department at a reasonable replacement cost.



 



   K.   Report of Transfer, Loss or Theft Required.



 



   (1)   Any person who sells, leases, rents, gives away or otherwise
transfers ownership or possession of any sentry dog shall, within ten days of
the transfer, file a report with the General Manager on a form prescribed by
him or her, containing the name and address of the person to whom such dog
was transferred, a description and registration or identification number of
the dog, and any other information the General Manager deems appropriate.



 



   (2)   Any person whose sentry dog is lost, stolen, or whose dog dies
or is seriously injured shall, within three days of the loss, theft, injury
or death, file a report with the General Manager, on a form prescribed by him
or her containing a description and registration or identification number of
the dog and any other information the General Manager deems appropriate.



 



   (3)   Any humane society, animal shelter, boarding kennel, pet shop,
veterinarian or other person who receives a stray sentry dog, tagged or
otherwise identified as sentry dog, other than a bona fide sale or other
transfer as described under subdivisions in this section shall immediately
notify the General Manager of the receipt, giving all particulars. Any dogs
received by any humane society, animal shelter, boarding kennel, pet shop,
veterinarian or other person under such circumstances shall be returned to
the sentry dog owner or returned to the Department of Animal Services for
legal disposition.



 



   L.   Inspection of Premises.  Premises used for training or sale of
sentry dogs and records thereof shall be open for inspection at reasonable
hours by any employee of the Department charged by the General Manager with
the duty of making inspections for the purpose of inspecting said premises or
records to insure compliance with the requirements of this section and the
rules and regulations adopted by the General Manager.



 



 



SEC. 53.65.  MAIMING, INJURING OR KILLING ANIMALS DURING PERFORMANCE.



   (Added by Ord. No. 157,669, Eff. 6/11/83.)



 



   (a)   No person shall knowingly maim, injure or kill any animal that
is used in any theatrical, motion picture, television or other performance or
production. Nor shall any person use or cause, permit or allow the use of any
device machine or contrivance to maim injure or kill any animal in such a
performance or production



 



   (b)   No person shall use or work any animal in any theatrical,
motion picture, television or other performance or production without first
obtaining a permit from the Department under the procedures contained in
Section 53.50 of this article. However, any person in possession of a permit
for Animal Acts or Exhibitions, Circus or Rodeo under this article shall not
be required to obtain a permit under this section for the same activities.
The Department before investigating any applications for a permit under this
section shall require the payment of a fee in the amount of $160.00. (Amended
by Ord. No. 168,590, Eff. 3/21/93.)



 



 



SEC. 53.66.  GUARD DOGS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 159,914, Eff. 7/5/85.)



 



   Purpose of Section – In order to safeguard the health and safety of
the General Public from the danger of guard dogs used by industrial or
commercial establishments and to insure the humane treatment of such guard
dogs, it is the purpose of the City of Los Angeles in enacting this ordinance
to make appropriate provisions for the regulation of guard dogs.



 



   A.   Definitions.



 



   (1)   “Guard Dog” means any dog kept, used or maintained on any
commercial or industrial premises or any dog kept, used or maintained on any
industrial or commercial premises to guard, protect, patrol or defend any
property or person other than a sentry dog licensed under Section 53.64 of
this Code.



 



   (2)   “Premises” means any industrial or commercial property,
building, structure, business, firm, facility, or enterprise.



 



   B.   Required Signs and Information.  No person shall keep, use or
maintain any guard dog on any premises governed by this section unless the
premises are posted to warn of a guard dog on the premises.  The warning
shall consist of a sign placed at each entrance and exit to the premises and
in a position to be legible from the sidewalk or ground level adjacent to the
sign.  If the premises are not enclosed by a wall or fence, a sign shall be
placed at every entrance and exit to each structure on the premises.  Each
sign shall measure at least 10" × 14" and shall contain block lettering on a
white background stating “Warning Guard Dog on Duty”.  The sign shall
have a universal depiction of a silhouette of a dog with its mouth open and
its teeth bared.  In addition, the sign shall set forth the name, address
and phone number of the person or persons to be notified during any hour of
the day or night who will proceed immediately to the location to permit entry
to the premises by any authorized representative of the Department.  This
section shall not apply to signs required by Section 53.33(b) governing
sentry dogs.  (Amended by Ord. No. 175,453, Eff. 10/26/03.)



 



   C.   Immunization. 



 



   (1)   No person shall keep, use or maintain any guard dog on any
premises unless each dog has been vaccinated against rabies as required by
Section 53.51 of this code and each dog has a current and valid certificate
of rabies vaccination issued by a licensed veterinarian, nor shall any person
keep, use or maintain any guard dog unless each dog has been immunized
against distemper, hepatitis, leptospirosis and parvovirus and each dog has a
current and valid certificate of such immunization issued by a licensed
veterinarian.



 



   (2)   The current and valid certificate of rabies immunization and
immunization against the common diseases required by Section C.(1) must be
issued by a licensed veterinarian and shall be kept on the premises and shown
upon the request or demand of any authorized representative of the Department.



 



   D.   Veterinary Examination.  No person shall keep, use or maintain
any guard dog on any premises unless each guard dog has a complete physical
examination including blood, fecal, and urine analysis by a licensed
veterinarian who shall certify each dog to be free of any infections or
disease process. Such examination and certification for the health of each
guard dog shall be renewed each calendar year. Every dog currently used as a
guard dog shall be examined and certified for health prior to January 1, 1986.



 



   (1)   Any guard dog found not to be free of infections or disease
process by the veterinarian shall be removed from the premises immediately.



 



   (2)   A copy of the veterinarian’s annual certification of health
shall be kept on the premises and shown upon the request or demand of any
authorized representative of the Department.



 



   (3)   A copy of the veterinarian’s annual certification of health
shall be filed with the Department within 15 days of its issuance.



 



   (4)   If an authorized representative of the Department has
reasonable cause to believe that a guard dog is injured, sick, diseased,
unwell, or malnourished or constitutes a danger to the public health and
safety, said representative may order the guard dog to be removed from the
premises until a new certification of health is issued by a licensed
veterinarian. The Department representative shall be notified prior to
returning the dog to the premises.



 



   E.   Tags.  Notwithstanding Section 53.21, no person shall keep,
use or maintain any guard dog on any premises unless each guard dog has its
license tag securely affixed to its collar, harness or other device.



 



   F.   Confinement Requirements.  It shall be unlawful for any person
to tether, fasten, chain, tie, restrain, or cause a guard dog to be fastened,
chained, tied, or restrained, to houses, trees, fences, garages or other
stationary objects, by means of a rope, chain, strap, or other physical
restraint method, for the purpose of confinement on real property. 
“Confinement,” for purposes of this section, shall mean the dog’s
physical restraint to real property for more time than it is necessary for
the dog owner to complete a task that requires that the dog be temporarily
physically restrained to real property.  When confined to real property, the
dog must be tethered by a non-choke type collar or a body harness to a tether
at least three times the body length of the dog, which allows the dog access
to food, water, and shelter as described above, and be free from
entanglement.  This section shall not affect a person’s ability to use
appropriate electronic means of confinement.  (Amended by Ord. No. 175,453,
Eff. 10/26/03.)



 



   G.   Shelter Requirements.  No person shall keep, use, or maintain
a guard dog on any premises unless the dog is provided full access to an
enclosed building, dog house, or similar shelter at all times.  The shelter
shall:



 



   (1)   Have a top, bottom, and at least three sides.



 



   (2)   Have a floor raised off the ground, free of cracks,
depressions and rough areas where insects, rodents or eggs from internal
parasites may lodge.  An effective program for the control of insects,
ectoparasites, and other pests shall be established and maintained.



 



   (3)   Be cleaned and maintained in a manner designed to ensure the
best possible sanitary conditions.  Excreta shall be removed from the
shelter as often as necessary, at least daily, to prevent contamination of
the dog and to reduce disease hazards and odors.  When a hosing or flushing
method is used for cleaning, any dog contained in the enclosure shall be
protected during the cleaning process.  Rugs, blankets, or other bedding
material shall be kept clean and dry.



 



   (4)   Be of adequate size to allow the dog to stand up and turn
about freely, stand easily, sit and lie in a comfortable normal position.



 



   (5)   Have a floor constructed so as to protect the dog’s feet and
legs from injury.



 



   (6)   Allow a dog kept outdoors to remain dry during rain.



 



   (7)   Have sufficient clean bedding material or other means of
protection from the weather when the ambient temperature falls below that
temperature to which the dog is acclimated.



 



   (8)   Provide sufficient shade to allow a dog kept outdoors to
protect itself from the direct rays of the sun, when sunlight is likely to
cause overheating or discomfort.  Starting on the first day of June and
ending on the last day of October, a shaded, heat-resistant area must be
provided during daylight hours.



 



   (9)   Contain a suitable means for the prompt elimination of excess
liquid.



 



   (10)   Be structurally sound and maintained in good repair to
protect the dog from injury.



 



   (11)   Have all open windows and doors covered by flaps starting in
the month of November and continuing until the end of May.  The door flap
shall allow the dog easy access in and out of the shelter, and at the same
time allow the dog to retain body heat.



 



   (12)   Be constructed and maintained so that the dog contained
therein has convenient access to clean food and water.



 



(Amended by Ord. No. 175,453, Eff. 10/26/03.)



 



   H.   Water Requirements.  No person shall keep, use, or maintain
any guard dog on any premises unless the dog has access to clean and fresh
water at all times.  Clean potable water shall be available to the dog
unless restricted for veterinary care, and:



 



   (1)   If the water is kept in a container, this container shall be
of the type designed  to prevent tipping and spilling of the water contained
therein.  If necessary to accomplish this purpose, the container shall be
secured to a solid structure or secured in the ground.  Watering containers
shall be kept clean and shall be sanitized at least once every two weeks;
must be kept out of the sun and must be emptied and refilled with fresh water
at least once each calendar day; or



 



   (2)   If the water is provided by an automatic or demand device, the
water supply connected to the device must function 24 hours a day.



 



(Amended by Ord. No. 175,453, Eff. 10/26/03.)



 



   I.   Feeding Requirements.  No person shall keep, use, or maintain
any guard dog on any premises unless the dog is provided sufficient food
daily to maintain proper body weight and good general health.  In addition,
the following requirements shall apply:



 



   (1)   The dog shall be provided with food which is free from
contamination, is wholesome, palatable, and of sufficient quantity and
nutritive value to meet the normal daily requirements for the condition and
size of the animal.



 



   (2)    Food receptacles shall be accessible to the dog and shall be
located so as to minimize food's contamination by excreta and/or insects. 
Feeding pans shall be durable and kept clean.  The food receptacles shall be
sanitized at least once every two weeks.  Disposable food receptacles may be
used but must be discarded after each feeding.  Self feeders may be used for
the feeding of dry food, and they shall be sanitized regularly to prevent
molding, deterioration or caking of food.  Spoiled or contaminated food
shall be disposed of in a sanitary manner.



 



(Amended by Ord. No. 175,453, Eff. 10/26/03.)



 



   J.   Licensing.  No person shall own, keep, use, or maintain a
guard dog unless the person has obtained a guard dog license and tag from the
Department.  The fee for each guard dog license and tag shall be $150.00 per
year for an unaltered guard dog and $50.00 per year for an altered guard
dog.  Each license issued pursuant to this section shall expire one year
from the date of its issuance and on the same day of each year.  The license
fee shall be paid annually to the Department and shall be due and payable on
or before the expiration of the previous license.  The payment of the annual
guard dog license fee shall be in lieu of the dog license tax imposed by
Section 53.15 and the dog license fee imposed by Section 53.15.3 of this
article.  (Amended by Ord. No. 175,453, Eff. 10/26/03.)



 



   K.   Electronic Animal Identification Device.  No person shall own,
maintain, keep, use, or maintain a guard dog unless the person had an
Electronic Animal Identification Device approved by the Department surgically
implanted in the dog.  (Added by Ord. No. 175,453, Eff. 10/26/03.)



 



 



SEC. 53.67.  ANIMAL SACRIFICE.



   (Added by Ord. No. 166,307, Eff. 11/12/90.)



 



   (a)   No person shall engage in, participate in, assist in, or
perform animal sacrifice.



 



   (b)   No person shall own, keep, possess or have custody of any
animal with the purpose or intention of using such animal for animal
sacrifice.



 



   (c)   No person shall knowingly sell, offer to sell, give away or
transfer any animal to another person who intends to use such animal for
animal sacrifice.



 



   (d)   Nothing in this ordinance shall be construed to prohibit any
person or establishment lawfully operating under the laws of this city and
state from lawfully engaging in the slaughter or ritual slaughter of animals
where the preparation or killing of such animals is primarily for food
purposes.



 



   (e)   For the purpose of this section, the following words and
phrases are defined as follows:



 



   “Slaughter” means the killing of any animal for food purposes;



 



   “Ritual slaughter” means the preparation and killing of any animal
for food purposes in accordance with California Food and Agricultural Code
Section 19501;



 



   “Animal sacrifice” means the injuring or killing of any animal in
any religious or cult ritual or as an offering to a deity, devil, demon or
spirit, wherein the animal has not been injured or killed primarily for food
purposes, regardless of whether all or any part of such animal is
subsequently consumed.



 



 



SEC. 53.68.  FEES FOR SERVICES TO SUBDIVIDERS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 167,682, Eff.4/25/92.)



 



   The Department of Animal Services is hereby authorized to provide
special animal control services for the benefit of any subdivider upon the
execution of an agreement between the Department, on behalf of the City of
Los Angeles, and the subdivider to provide for the reimbursement of the cost
of such special services to the Department. The Department shall bill the
subdivider for any environmental impact review and for any animal related
service calls above an amount and within an area to be determined by the
Department and the subdivider. Reimbursement shall be for all such services
which shall be billed at their actual cost.



 



 



SEC. 53.69.  FEES FOR TRAP RENTAL.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 179,108, Eff. 9/22/07.)



 



   (a)   The Department of Animal Services is hereby authorized to rent
traps to the public for the trapping of nuisance animals.  The Department
shall charge and collect a security deposit as determined by the Department
in addition to fees of $7.50 per day for small traps and $15.00 per day for
large traps, except as provided in Subsections (b) and (c) below.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 185,537, Eff. 6/21/18.)



 



   (b)   The Department shall collect a trap deposit fee of $100.00
upon issuance of a permit to trap a coyote.  This $100.00 fee shall be
refunded upon return of the trap in working condition to the Department.



 



   (c)   The Department may waive the required fees and security
deposit under Subsections (a) and (b) for persons who qualify for
certificates under the free spay/neuter program, as well as for non-profit
animal rescue organizations exempt from taxation under Internal Revenue Code
Section 501(c)(3) who participate in early age spay/neuter of animals, comply
with all State and local laws regarding the humane care and treatment of
animals, and whose mission is in whole or in part the rescue and placement of
companion animals including but not limited to dogs, cats and rabbits, and/or
the trapping, neutering and returning of feral cats.  The Department may
also waive fees under Subsections (a) and (b) for any person or rescue
organization described above, assisting the Department to safely capture an
animal for the health or safety of the animal or the public, including the
trapping, neutering and returning of feral cats.



 



 



SEC. 53.70.  CARE AND MAINTENANCE OF DOGS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 176,915, Eff. 9/26/05.)



 



   A.   Shelter requirements.  No person shall keep, use or maintain a
dog outdoors on any premises unless the dog is either provided with full
access to an enclosed building, or if not provided with such access, is
provided with access to a dog house or similar shelter at all times. Said dog
house or shelter shall:



 



   (1)   Have a weatherproof top, bottom and sides, and an opening on
no more than one side that allows a dog to remain dry and provides adequate
shade during daylight hours to allow a dog to protect itself in order to
prevent overheating or discomfort to the dog.



 



   (2)   Have a floor that is level and dry.



 



   (3)   Be composed of material that protects the dog from injury, and
is free from cracks, depressions and rough areas where insects, parasites and
other pests might be established and maintained.



 



   (4)   Be of adequate size to allow the dog to stand erect with the
dog's head up, to turn around easily, and to sit and lie down in a
comfortable and normal position.



 



   (5)   Have sufficient clean bedding material or other means of
protection from weather when the weather is colder than what a dog of that
breed and condition will comfortably tolerate and that will allow the dog to
retain body heat.  Bedding material shall be kept clean and dry.



 



   (6)   Contain a suitable means for the prompt elimination of excess
liquid.



 



   (7)   Be structurally sound and maintained in good repair to protect
the dog from injury.



 



   (8)   Be constructed and maintained so that the dog has convenient
access to clean food and water.



 



   (9)   Allow the dog easy access in and out.



 



   (10)   Be cleaned and maintained in a manner designed to insure
sanitary conditions.  Excrement shall be removed from the dog house or
shelter and from the premises, including yard and dog run, as frequently as
necessary to prevent contamination and reduce health hazards and odors. 
Excrement shall be properly disposed of in trash containers and shall not be
washed into the gutter or storm drain.  When a hosing or flushing method is
used to clean the dog house or shelter, dogs should be removed when
reasonably possible.



 



   B.   Water requirements.  No person shall keep, use or maintain any
dog on any premises unless the dog has access to clean, fresh water at all
times. Clean potable water shall be available to the dog unless restricted
for veterinary care.



 



   (1)   If the water is in a container, this container shall be
designed, secured, placed and maintained in a manner that prevents tipping
and spilling of the water.  Water containers shall be kept clean and
sanitary, shall be kept out of the sun and shall be emptied and refilled
regularly with fresh water; or



 



   (2)   If the water is provided by an automatic or demand device, the
water supply connected to the device must function twenty four (24) hours per
day.



 



   C.   Feeding requirements.  No person shall keep, use or maintain
any dog on any premises unless the dog is provided sufficient food daily to
maintain proper body weight and good general health.  The food shall be:



 



   (1)   Free from contamination, shall be wholesome and palatable and
of sufficient quantity, quality and nutritive value to meet the normal daily
requirements for the age, size and breed of dog.



 



   (2)   Contained in receptacles that is easily accessible to the dog
and located in a manner and place that minimize contamination, including but
not limited to contamination by excrement or insects.  Feeding pans and food
receptacles shall be durable and kept clean and shall be maintained in
sanitary condition.  Self-feeders shall be sanitized regularly to prevent
molding, deterioration or caking of food, and to prevent any interruption of
the flow of food that would make it difficult for the dog to access the
food.  Spoiled or contaminated food shall be disposed in a sanitary manner.



 



   (3)   Self-feeders and food receptacles shall not be left unattended
outdoors for periods of time significantly longer than necessary for feeding
purposes in order to prevent attracting vermin or animals in the wild,
including predators.



 



   D.   Tethering.  It shall be unlawful for any person to tether,
fasten, chain, tie, restrain or cause a dog to be fastened, chained, tied or
restrained to houses, trees, fences, garages or other stationary or highly
immobile objects by means of a rope, chain, strap or other physical restraint
for the purpose of confinement, except in circumstances where all of the
following requirements are met:



 



   (1)   The tethering shall not be for more time than is necessary for
the dog owner or custodian to complete a temporary task that requires the dog
to be physically restrained for a reasonable period.



 



   (2)   The dog must be tethered by a non-choke type collar or a body
harness to a tether that is at least three (3) times the body length of the
dog, measured from the dog's nose to the back of the hindquarters and which
tether is free from entanglement.



 



   (3)   The dog must have access to food, water and shelter as
described above.



 



   (4)   The dog shall be monitored periodically.



 



   This section shall not affect the use of appropriate electronic means
of confinement.



 



   E.   Caging.  No person shall keep, use or maintain a dog in an
outdoor pen, run, cage or other enclosure on any premises unless said pen,
run, cage or enclosure is of adequate size to allow the dog to move around
freely and, in addition,



 



   (1)   its length is at least five times the length of the dog and
its width is at least three times the length of the dog, and its height
allows the dog to stand erect with the dog's head up, and



 



   (2)   contains a dog shelter as described in Section 53.70 A. above,
or



 



   (3)   provides the animal access to the inside of a building.



 



   The pen, run, cage or other enclosure shall be cleaned and maintained
in a manner designed to insure sanitary conditions, and free of any debris
which would be injurious to the dog.



 



   F.   Exceptions. This prohibition shall not apply to any entities
exempt under the provisions of Section 53.15.2 (e)(2), to wit:



 



   (1)   Government agencies; non-profit animal rescue organizations
exempt from taxation under Internal Revenue Code section 501(c)(3); or humane
societies or societies for the prevention of cruelty to animals if such
societies are incorporated under the provisions of California Corporations
Code Section 10400 and the Nonprofit Public Benefit Corporation Law in Part 2
of the California Corporations Code, beginning at Section 5110;



 



   (2)   Permitted dog or cat shows; or



 



   (3)   Permitted pet stores which sell or otherwise transfer dogs or
cats, whether for compensation or otherwise, within the store.



 



   G.   (Deleted by Ord. No. 183,271, Eff. 11/14/14.)



 



 



SEC. 53.71.  ROOSTERS – LIMIT.



   (Added by Ord. No. 180,889, Eff. 10/31/09.)



 



   No person or persons shall own, possess, maintain or have custody of
more than one rooster on any lot, building, structure, property or premises
within the City of Los Angeles, subject to the following exceptions:



 



   (a)   This section shall not prohibit any business, educational
facility or lawful animal exhibition from having or maintaining roosters,
provided that such business, educational facility or animal exhibition:  (i)
has appropriate and valid permits and licenses; (ii) operates in
appropriately zoned areas; and (iii) maintains roosters as an integral and
otherwise lawful part of such business or activity.



 



   (b)   This section shall not prohibit more than one rooster on a
property for filming purposes, pursuant to a properly issued City filming
permit, for the limited purpose of being used in a film, television or other
media production.  A rooster or roosters creating a nuisance shall be
removed from the City at the completion of each workday or sooner, once
filming ceases for the day or night.



 



   (c)   Persons owning more than one pet rooster may seek a permit
from the Department to keep up to three of the roosters as pets for the
remainder of the roosters' lives; provided that the roosters do not create a
nuisance or health hazard, are microchipped or fitted with a legband approved
by the Department for permanent identification and are maintained in
accordance with other laws governing the possession of fowl in the City.  No
replacement roosters shall be allowed under this permit.  The Department may
charge an administrative fee not to exceed $50.00 for up to two additional
roosters as a one-time permit fee.  No application for a permit shall be
accepted under this exception after December 31, 2009.



 



   (d)   A violation of the provisions of this section is a
misdemeanor. (Amended by Ord. No. 183,271, Eff. 11/14/14.)



 



   (e)   Nothing in this section shall be interpreted to limit or
affect any zoning or land use requirements or regulations or any distance
requirements or affect any other local, State or Federal law relating to
roosters, fighting roosters, game cocks or other fowl or poultry.



 



 



SEC. 53.72.  DECLAWING OF CATS OR OTHER ANIMALS – PROHIBITION.



   (Added by Ord. No. 180,986, Eff. 11/20/09.)



 



   (a)   No person, licensed medical professional or otherwise, shall
perform or cause to be performed an onychectomy (declawing) or flexor
tendonectomy procedure by any means on a cat or on any other animal within
the City, except when necessary for a therapeutic purpose.  Therapeutic
purpose means the necessity to address the medical condition of the animal,
such as an existing or recurring illness, infection, disease, injury or
abnormal condition in the claw that compromises the animal's health. 
Therapeutic purpose does not include cosmetic or aesthetic reasons or reasons
of convenience in keeping or handling the animal.



 



   (b)   In the event that an onychectomy or flexor tendonectomy
procedure is performed on any animal with the City in violation of this
Section, each of the following persons shall be guilty of a violation of this
Section:  (1) the person or persons performing the procedure, (2) all
persons assisting in the physical performance of the procedure and (3) all
persons or entities that procured the procedure, including but not limited to
the owner or person having custody or control over the animal or any other
person or entity that ordered, requested or paid for the procedure.



 



   (c)   A violation of any of the provisions of this Section is a
misdemeanor.



 



 



SEC. 53.73.  SALE OF COMMERCIALLY BRED DOGS, CATS AND RABBITS IN PET STORES
– PROHIBITION.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 184,265, Eff. 6/8/16.)



 



   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell any live dog, cat or rabbit
in any pet store, retail business or other commercial establishment located
in the City of Los Angeles, unless the dog, cat or rabbit was obtained from
an animal shelter or a humane society located in the City of Los Angeles, or
a non-profit rescue and humane organization registered with the Department of
Animal Services.  For purposes of this Section, a rescue and humane
organization is defined as a California non-profit corporation that is exempt
from taxation under Internal Revenue Code Section 501(c)(3), participates in
early age spay/neuter of animals, complies with State and local laws
regarding the humane treatment of animals, and whose mission and practice is,
in whole or in significant part, the rescue and placement of dogs, cats or
rabbits.



 



 



SEC. 53.74.  BULLHOOKS – PROHIBITION ON USE.



   (Added by Ord. No. 183,060, Eff. 6/23/14, Oper. 1/1/17.)



 



   It shall be unlawful for any person to use a bullhook, ankus, baseball
bat, axe handle, pitchfork or other implement or tool designed to inflict
pain for the purpose of training or controlling the behavior of an elephant
in the City of Los Angeles.  For purposes of this section, the term use
shall include brandishing, exhibiting or displaying a bullhook or an
implement designed to look like a bullhook in the presence of an elephant for
the purpose of training or controlling the behavior of the elephant.



 



 



SEC. 53.75.  PROHIBITION TO MANUFACTURE, SELL, DISTRIBUTE, TRADE, IMPORT, OR
EXPORT FUR.



   (Added by Ord. No. 186,002, Eff. 4/2/19.)



 



   A.   Definitions.  For the purposes of this section, the following
words shall have the following meanings:



 



   1.   Fur.  Any animal skin or part thereof with Fur, fleece or Fur
fibers attached thereto, either in its raw or processed state, not including
skins that are intended for conversion and are later converted into
leather.  Fur does not include cowhide with hair attached thereto or
lambskin or sheepskin with fleece attached thereto.



 



   2.   Fur Product.  Any article of clothing or fashion accessory
made in whole or in part of Fur, including, but not limited to, a coat,
jacket, handbag, purse, wallet, shoe, slipper, hat, earmuff, scarf, shawl,
glove, jewelry or keychain.  Fur Product does not include dog or cat fur
products.



 



   3.   Non-Profit Organization.  Any charity or corporation that is
authorized under United States Code 26 Section 501(c)(3) for charitable,
religious, philanthropic, educational or other similar purposes.



 



   4.   Taxidermy.  The practice of preparing and preserving the skin
and Fur of a deceased animal or part of a deceased animal that is stuffed and
mounted in a lifelike form.



 



   5.   Used Fur Product.  Fur or Fur Product in any form which has
been worn or used by an ultimate consumer.



 



   B.   Prohibitions.  It shall be unlawful anywhere in the City to
manufacture, sell, display for sale, distribute, trade, import, or export any
Fur or Fur Product, with the following exceptions:



 



   1.   Under the authority of California Fish and Game Code Section
3039(b), a Fur Product made from a furbearing animal or non-game animal
lawfully taken under the authority of a trapping license;



 



   2.   The pelt of a deceased animal that is preserved through
Taxidermy or for the purpose of Taxidermy;



 



   3.   The gift or transfer of a Used Fur Product between private
parties;



 



   4.   A Used Fur Product bought, sold, donated or owned by a person
not in the primary business of selling Fur or a Fur Product, including a
Non-Profit Organization, second hand store, or pawn shop;



 



   5.   The manufacture of a Fur Product using Fur sourced exclusively
from a Used Fur Product; and



 



   6.   A Fur or Fur Product that is only being transported through the
City.



 



   C.   Reserved.



 



   D.   Effective Date.  This section shall be effective on January 1,
2021.



 



   E.   Severability.  If any provision of this section is found to be
unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction,
that invalidity shall not affect the remaining provisions of this ordinance
which can be implemented without the invalid provisions, and to this end, the
provisions of this section are declared to be severable.  The City Council
hereby declares that it would have adopted this ordinance and each provision
thereof irrespective of whether any one or more provisions are found invalid,
unconstitutional or otherwise unenforceable.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 3.5
PURCHASE OF ANIMALS FROM CITY ZOO



 




(Added by Ord. No. 165,763, Eff. 5/19/90.)




 



 



Section



53.80   Purchase of Animals from the Los Angeles City Zoo for Any Inhumane
Purpose Prohibited.



 



 



SEC. 53.80.  PURCHASE OF ANIMALS FROM THE LOS ANGELES CITY ZOO FOR ANY
INHUMANE PURPOSE PROHIBITED.



 



   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to purchase any animal
from the Los Angeles City Zoo for any Inhumane Purpose.



 



   (b)   For purposes of this section, an “Inhumane Purpose” shall
mean any purpose other than:



 



display, breeding or genetic reservoir purposes when the purchaser is another
established zoo, or breeding purposes when the purchaser is an approved
member of the American Association of Zoological Parks and Aquariums
(“AAZPA”) or a legitimate breeder previously recognized in writing as
such by the Director of the Los Angeles City Zoo, or resale to any such zoo,
breeder or AAZPA approved member for the purposes set forth herein when the
purchaser is broker or dealer of animals previously recognized in writing as
such by the Director of the Zoo.



 



   (c)   Each purchaser of animals from the Los Angeles City Zoo shall
state in writing, as part of his or her offer to purchase, the purpose or
purposes for which each animal is being purchased and the actual user or
recipient of the animal. Each purchaser shall also certify in writing that
the animal is not being purchased for any Inhumane Purpose, as defined in
this section.



 



   (d)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to animals
commonly considered to be domesticated, such as farm animals, or to other
animals recognized as such or utilized as food for other zoo animals in
accordance with the standards and practices prevailing at established zoos.



 



   (e)   For purposes of this section, “genetic reservoir” shall
mean a program of animal retention to preserve the availability of genetic
breeding lines.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 4
LIABILITY FOR VIOLATION OF HAZARDOUS WASTE AND SUBSTANCE CONTROL LAWS.



 




(Art. 4, Ch. V, Added by Ord. No. 164,154, Eff. 12/9/88.)




 



 



Section



54.00   Scope.



54.01   Definitions.



54.02   Liability for Unauthorized Disposal or Release.



54.03   Liability for Failure to Comply with Orders.



54.04   Computation and Recovery of Costs.



54.05   Hazardous Substance Clearance Report.



 



 



SEC. 54.00.  SCOPE.



 



   This article establishes liability for reimbursement of the City’s
expenses incurred in connection with corrective action necessitated by
violations of the hazardous waste and substance control laws. It also
requires preparation of a hazardous materials clearance report before
contaminated property is transferred.



 



 



SEC. 54.01.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   For the purposes of this article, unless the context otherwise requires:



 



   A.   “City” means the City of Los Angeles.



 



   B.   “Corrective action” includes, without limitation, any
“remedial action” within the meaning of Section 25322 of the Health and
Safety Code and any “removal” within the meaning of Section 25323 of the
Health and Safety Code.



 



   C.   “Disposal” has the meaning assigned to that term by Section
25113 of the Health and Safety Code.



 



   D.   “Facility” means



 



   (1)   any building, structure, installation, equipment, pipe or
pipelines (including any pipe into a sewer or publicly owned treatment
works), well, pit, pond, lagoon, impoundment, ditch, landfill, storage
container, motor vehicle, rolling stock or aircraft, or



 



   (2)    any site or area where a hazardous substance has been
deposited, stored, disposed of, or placed, or otherwise come to be located;
but does not include any consumer product in consumer use or any vessel.



 



   E.   “Hazardous substance” means a waste or substance that
consists of a material listed in either the List of Chemical Names or the
List of Common Names appearing in Section 66680 of Title 22 of the California
Administrative Code, a waste or substance that is hazardous according to the
criteria set forth in Article 11 (commencing with Section 66693) of Chapter
30 of Division 4, Title 22 of the California Administrative Code, or any
hazardous substance as defined in either Section 25280, Section 25316 or
Section 25400 of the Health and Safety Code.



 



   F.   “Hazardous waste and substance control laws” means Chapter
6.5 (commencing with Section 25100) or Chapter 6.7 (commencing with Section
25280) of Division 20 of the Health and Safety Code or any permit, rule,
regulation, standard or requirement issued or promulgated pursuant to such
chapters.



 



   G.   “Environmental Manager” means the Chief of Police, Chief
Engineer and General Manager of the Fire Department and/or the Executive
Director of the Bureau of Sanitation or his or her designee.



 



   H.   “Release” has the meaning assigned to that term by Section
25320 and Section 25321 of the Health and Safety Code.



 



   I.   “Unauthorized disposal or release” means any disposal of a
hazardous substance which is in violation of the provisions of Chapter 6.5
(commencing with Section 25100) of Division 20 of the Health and Safety Code,
any “unauthorized release” within the meaning of Section 25280 of the
Health and Safety Code, or any release of a hazardous waste or substance
which is not “a release authorized or permitted pursuant to state law”
within the meaning of Section 25326 of the Health and Safety Code.



 



   J.   “Vessel” means every description of watercraft or other
artificial contrivance used, or capable of being used, as a means of
transportation on water.



 



 



SEC. 54.02.  LIABILITY FOR UNAUTHORIZED DISPOSAL OR RELEASE.



 



   If the City takes any corrective action which, in the judgment of an
Environmental Manager, is reasonably necessary to remedy or prevent an
imminent substantial danger to the public health, domestic livestock,
wildlife or the environment arising out of any unauthorized disposal or
release of any hazardous substance, the following described persons shall be
jointly and severally liable to the City for the cost incurred by it in
taking any such corrective action:



 



   A.   The owner or operator of a vessel or a facility,



 



   B.   Any person who at the time of disposal of any hazardous
substance owned or operated any facility at which such hazardous substances
were disposed of,



 



   C.   Any person who by contract, agreement, or otherwise arranged
for disposal or treatment, or arranged with a transporter for disposal or
treatment, of hazardous substances owned or possessed by such person, by any
other party or entity, at any facility or incineration vessel owned or
operated by another party or entity and containing such hazardous substances,
and



 



   D.   Any person who accepts or accepted any hazardous substances for
transport to disposal or treatment facilities, incineration vessels or sites
selected by such person, from which there is a release, or a threatened
release which causes the incurrence of response costs, of a hazardous
substance.



 



   For the purposes of this article, the defenses available to liable
persons shall be those defenses specified in Sections 101(35) and 107(b) of
the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of
1980, as amended (42 U.S.C. §§ 9601(35) and 9607(b)).



 



 



SEC. 54.03.  LIABILITY FOR FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDERS.



 



   If the Environmental Manager issues a lawful order directing any person
who has violated or is in violation of any provisions of the hazardous waste
or substance control laws to take corrective action respecting such
violation, and if such person does not take such corrective action on or
before the data specified in the order, the City may take or contract for the
taking of such corrective action. If such corrective action is taken by or
contracted for by the City, the person to whom the order was directed shall
be liable to the City for the cost incurred by it in taking or contracting
for such corrective action. If such corrective action is taken by the person
to whom the order is directed or by such person’s agent, the person to whom
the order is directed shall be liable to the City for the City’s costs of
supervising such corrective action or otherwise verifying compliance with the
order.



 



 



SEC. 54.04.  COMPUTATION AND RECOVERY OF COSTS.



 



   The costs referred to in Section 54.01 and Section 54.02 shall include,
in addition to the City’s direct out–of–pocket expenses for labor and
materials, administrative costs in an amount equal to ten (10) percent of the
reasonable cost actually incurred or five hundred dollars ($500), whichever
is greater. The amount of such costs for which liability is imposed pursuant
to this article shall be recoverable in a civil action by the City or by
ordinance and shall be in addition to any other fees or penalties authorized
by law, provided that any sums actually received by the City in connection
with such work pursuant to Chapter 6.8 (commencing with Section 25300) of
Division 20 of the Health and Safety Code shall be credited against any
amount recoverable in such civil action. If recovery of part or all costs is
by way of an ordinance the procedure set forth in LAAC § 19.96 B.3. through
7., C.34. and D. shall be followed.



 



 



SEC. 54.05.  HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE CLEARANCE REPORT.



 



   No property upon which there has been an unauthorized disposal or
release of a hazardous substance shall be sold, transferred or otherwise
conveyed without the proper approval by the County Health Department and
recordation with the County Recorder of a hazardous substance clearance
report. Said report shall consist of:



 



   A.   A site characterization study which details the nature and
extent of the contamination.



 



   B.   A site mitigation plan if required by any governmental
authority with appropriate jurisdiction.



 



   C.   A site clearance certificate signed by the property owner under
penalty of perjury to the Director of the County Health Department that:



 



   1.   The owner has prepared all elements of any required mitigation
plan.



 



   2.   The owner applied for and obtained to the extent available,
certification or verification from competent state and federal authorities
that mitigation measures have been completed in compliance with any and all
approved site mitigation plans and, where required, has conducted follow up
soil sampling and analysis. Copies of the state or federal verification shall
be submitted.



 



   3.   Includes the following declaration: “The owner recognizes
that ownership entails a nondelegable duty to perform the work called for in
the site mitigation plan; that the owner and not the City, is responsible for
compliance with any and all site mitigation plans; that the owner, not the
City, attests to and is responsible for the accuracy of the representations
made in any certification and that the owner will continue to remain liable
and responsible, to the extent such liability or responsibility is imposed by
state and federal law, for the owners failure to comply with any site
mitigation plan.”



 



 



 



ARTICLE 5
FIREARMS – DANGEROUS WEAPONS



 



 



Section



55.00   Guns – Permits.



55.01   Concealed Weapons – Permit.



55.02   Concealed Weapons – Permit – Record.



55.03   Concealed Weapons – Permits – Fee.



55.04   Tear Gas Weapons – Permits.



55.06   Use of Bows and Arrows Prohibited.



55.07   Prohibition on Carrying or Possessing Specified Items While
Attending or Participating in Any Public Demonstration, Rally, Protest,
Picket Line or Public Assembly.



55.08   Glass Bottles on Public Property Prohibited.



55.09   Ammunition Sales.



55.10   Carry Knives or Daggers in Plain View Prohibited.



55.11   Requirements for Ammunition Sales.



55.12   Duty to Report Theft or Loss of Firearms; Exemptions.



55.12.1   [Disposal of Firearms and Ammunition.]



55.13   Sale of Ammunition Clips and Similar Devices.



55.14   Sale or Purchase of More than One Handgun Within a Thirty Day
Period Prohibited.



55.15   Fingerprinting of Firearms Purchasers.



55.17   Possession of Gun Parts in Airports.



55.18   Sale of Large Caliber Firearms Prohibited.



55.19   [Sale of Ammunition for Large Caliber Firearms Prohibited.]



55.20   False or Secret Compartments in Vehicles to Hide Firearms or
Destructive Devices.



55.21   Safe Storage of Firearms.



 



 



SEC. 55.00.  GUNS – PERMITS.



 



   No person shall fire, shoot or discharge any gun, rifle, pistol or
other firearm, or any air-gun, air-rifle or air-pistol, or any spring-gun,
spring-rifle or spring-pistol, or any carbon dioxide or other gas operated
gun, rifle or pistol without having first obtained a written permit from the
Board of Police Commissioners.



 



 



SEC. 55.01.  CONCEALED WEAPONS – PERMIT.



 



   No person, except a peace officer shall wear or in any manner carry
concealed upon his person, any loaded or unloaded gun, pistol or revolver, or
any other dangerous or deadly weapon permitted to be carried by law without
having, at the same time, actually in his possession, and upon his person an
unexpired permit so to do issued by the Board of Police Commissioners.



 



 



SEC. 55.02.  CONCEALED WEAPONS – PERMIT – RECORD.



 



   The Board of Police Commissioners shall have power to issue to any
person, who in the judgment of said board, shall have such privilege, a
written permit to carry concealed any of the weapons specified in the
preceding section. Such permits shall be numbered consecutively in the order
in which they are issued. No permit shall be granted for a longer period than
twelve months. Each such permit shall state the name, address and occupation
of the person to whom the same is issued, and the date of its expiration and
shall specify the kind and description of weapon authorized to be carried
concealed by said person.



 



 



SEC. 55.03.  CONCEALED WEAPONS – PERMITS – FEE.



 



   The Chief of Police shall keep a record of all permits authorized by
the Board of Police Commissioners under this article. No permit required by
Section 55.01 shall be issued to any person until such person shall have paid
to the Chief of Police a registration fee of Three ($3.00) Dollars. On Monday
of each week the Chief of Police shall pay to the City Treasurer all such
registration fees received during the preceding week.



 



 



SEC. 55.04.  TEAR GAS WEAPONS – PERMITS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 151,335, Eff. 9/15/78.)



 



   No person shall purchase, possess or use any tear gas or tear gas
weapons without having first been issued a written permit therefor by the
Chief of Police. Such permit shall be issued upon a finding by the Chief of
Police that the applicant has satisfied all of the following conditions:



 



   1.   Is a resident of the City of Los Angeles.



 



   2.   Is not a minor.



 



   3.   Has not been convicted of a felony.



 



   4.   Is not addicted to any narcotic drug.



 



   5.   Has not been convicted of any crime involving assault.



 



   6.   Has not been convicted of misuse of tear gas under Section
12403.7(a)(8) of the Penal Code of the State of California.



 



   7.   Has completed a course certified by the Department of Justice
of the State of California in the use of tear gas and tear gas weapons
pursuant to which a card is issued identifying the person who has completed
such course. Such a course may be taken in any training institution certified
by the Commission on Peace Officer Standards and Training to offer tear gas
training.



 



   No permit required by this section shall be issued to any person until
such person shall have paid to the Chief of Police a permit fee of $35.00,
which shall be non-refundable in the event the application is denied. Such
permit shall be valid for a period of seven years from the date of issuance
and shall be non-transferable. Any permit issued hereunder shall be revoked
by the Chief of Police if the applicant no longer meets all of the conditions
set forth hereinabove.



 



 



SEC. 55.05.  ASSAULT WEAPONS – SALE OR POSSESSION PROHIBITED.



   (Repealed by Ord. No. 175,301, Eff. 8/2/03.)



 



 



SEC. 55.06.  USE OF BOWS AND ARROWS PROHIBITED.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 146,676, Eff. 11/25/74.)



 



   The use of bows and arrows in the City of Los Angeles is prohibited
except when shooting at targets on an established public or private range.



 



   For the purpose of this section, the following phrases shall be
construed as hereinafter set out:



 



   An “Established target range” is one where adequate precautions
have been taken to insure that arrows do not pass beyond the perimeter of the
target range facilities.



 



   The term “bows and arrows” shall include crossbows and any other
device for the shooting of bolts or arrows capable of piercing flesh.



 



 



SEC. 55.07.  PROHIBITION ON CARRYING OR POSSESSING SPECIFIED ITEMS WHILE
ATTENDING OR PARTICIPATING IN ANY PUBLIC DEMONSTRATION, RALLY, PROTEST,
PICKET LINE OR PUBLIC ASSEMBLY.



   (Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 185,217, Eff. 11/3/17.)



 



   (a)   No person shall carry or possess the following items or
articles while attending or participating in any demonstration, rally,
protest, picket line or public assembly:



 



   1.   Any length of lumber, wood, or wood lath unless that object is
1/4 inch or less in thickness and 2 inches or less in width, or if not
generally rectangular in shape, such object shall not exceed 3/4 inch in its
thickest dimension.  Both ends of the lumber, wood or wood lath shall be
blunt;



 



   2.   Any length of metal or plastic pipe, whether hollow or solid;
provided, however, that hollow plastic piping not exceeding 3/4 inch in its
thickest dimension and not exceeding 1/8 inch in wall thickness, and not
filled with any material, liquid, gas or solid may be used solely to support
a sign, banner, placard, puppet or other similar expressive display.  Both
ends of any plastic pipe permissible under this subsection shall be blunt;



 



   3.   Signs, posters, banners, plaques or notices, whether or not
mounted on a length of material permitted under Subdivisions 1. and 2. of
this section, unless such sign, poster, banner, plaque or notice is
constructed solely of soft material, such as cloth, paper, soft plastic
capable of being rolled or folded, or cardboard material no greater than 1/4
inch in thickness;



 



   4.   Baseball or softball bats, regardless of composition or size;
provided, however, that such items are permissible when configured of cloth,
cardboard, soft plastic, foam or paper for expressive purposes;



 



   5.   Any aerosol spray, tear gas, mace, pepper spray or bear
repellant;



 



   6.   Any projectile launcher or other device, such as a catapult or
wrist rocket, which is commonly used for the purpose of launching, hurling or
throwing any object, liquid, material or other substance, whether through
force of air pressure, spring action or any other mechanism;



 



   7.   Weapons such as firearms, knives, swords, sabers or other
bladed devices, axes, hatchets, ice picks, razor blades, nunchucks or martial
arts weapons of any kind, box cutters, pellet or BB guns, conducted
electrical weapons (CEWs), including, but not limited to, Tasers or stun
guns, metal/composite/ wooden knuckles, or any chain greater than 20 inches
in length or greater than 1/4 inch in diameter.  This subdivision also
includes toy or replica firearms unless such toy or replica is florescent
colored or transparent.



 



   8.   Balloons, bottles or any other container such as water cannons
or super-soakers, filled with any flammable, biohazard or other noxious
matter which is injurious, or nauseous, sickening or irritating to any of the
senses, with intent to throw, drop, pour, disperse, deposit, release,
discharge or expose the same in, upon or about any demonstration, rally,
protest, picket line or public assembly;



 



   9.   Glass bottles, whether empty or filled;



 



   10.   Open flame torches, lanterns or other devices that utilize
combustible materials such as gasoline, kerosene, propane or other fuel
sources;



 



   11.   Shields made of metal, wood, hard plastic or any combination
thereof;



 



   12.   Bricks, rocks, pieces of asphalt, concrete, pellets or ball
bearings.



 



   (b)   When feasible, excluding exigent circumstances, a warning
shall be issued before enforcement of the provisions of this section.  Such
warning shall be sufficient if provided orally, by posted signs or by
amplified announcement.



 



   (c)   Authorized peace officers, or employees, agents or
representatives of the City, shall be exempt from the provisions of this
section when such officers, employees, agents or representatives of the City
are engaged in official business of the City.



 



   (d)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an individual from
carrying a cane or using a walker or other device necessary for providing
mobility so that the person may participate in a public protest,
demonstration, rally, picket line or public assembly.  Further, nothing in
this section shall prohibit the imposition of specific conditions for
activities expressly authorized under permit issued by the City of Los
Angeles pursuant to Los Angeles Municipal Code Section 103.111.



 



 



SEC. 55.08.  GLASS BOTTLES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY PROHIBITED.



   (Added by Ord. No. 159,636, Eff. 3/5/85.)



 



   No person shall carry any glass beverage bottle, whether empty or not,
into any public street, or portion of any public street, or onto any other
public property when such street or property is being temporarily used for
the conducting of a community civic event or local special event of community
interest with respect to which approval to use the street or property for
said event has been given by the City of Los Angeles by permit, City Council
resolution or otherwise, and where barricades or other devices or City
personnel have been placed or stationed in the public street or streets and
at any other public way along the perimeter of the area being so used. The
provisions of this section shall not apply when beverages are sold or
dispensed within the area in glass bottles, nor shall the provisions of this
section apply to any glass bottle brought into the area which contains any
drug or medicine or which is designated for dispensing milk, juice or other
beverages to babies or infants, or which is intended to be used, or the
contents of which is intended to by used, in the preparation or seasoning of
food.



 



 



SEC. 55.09.  AMMUNITION SALES.



   (Added by Ord. No. 165,930, Eff. 6/5/90.)



 



   (a)   The term “firearm ammunition”, as used in this section,
shall include any ammunition for use in pistols, revolvers, rifles, shot
guns, or any other device designed to be used as a weapon from which is
expelled a projectile by the force of explosion or other form of combustion.



 



   (b)   Except as specified in Subsection (c) and (d), no person,
including retail gun dealers, shall sell, give, lend or transfer ownership of
any firearm ammunition during the period of seven days prior to the first day
of January of each year or on the first day of January of each year, or
during the seven days prior to the Fourth of July of each year or on the
Fourth of July of each year.



 



   (c)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the sale or transfer of
ownership of firearm ammunition by a wholesale gun dealer to another
wholesale gun dealer or by a wholesale gun dealer to a retail gun dealer, or
of ammunition requested by Section 12324 of the Penal Code of the State of
California.



 



   (d)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit sale to or acquisition
by any person described in Section 12302 or 12322 of the Penal Code of the
State of California.



 



   (e)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to the sale of
any firearm ammunition when such sale is prohibited by Sections 12303,
12303.6, 12304 or 12321 of the Penal Code of the State of California, or is
otherwise prohibited by Chapter 2.5, Title 2, Part 4, of the Penal Code of
the State of California.



 



 



SEC. 55.10.  CARRY KNIVES OR DAGGERS IN PLAIN VIEW PROHIBITED.



   (Added by Ord. No. 162,995, Eff. 1/7/88.)



 



   (a)   As used in this section, the term “knife” or “dagger”
shall include any knife, dirk or dagger having a blade 3 inches or more in
length, any ice pick or similar sharp tool, any straight edge razor or any
razor blade fitted to a handle.



 



   (b)   No person shall wear or carry in plain view any knife or
dagger upon any public street or other public place or in any place open to
the public.



 



   (c)   The prohibitions of this section shall not apply where a
person is wearing or carrying a knife or dagger for use in a lawful
occupation, for lawful recreational purposes, or as a recognized religious
practice, or while the person is traveling to or returning from participation
in such activity.



 



 



SEC. 55.11.  REQUIREMENTS FOR AMMUNITION SALES.



   (Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 180,447, Eff. 2/2/09, Oper.
6/18/09.)



 



   (a)   "Firearm Ammunition" means any self-contained unit consisting
of the case, primer, propellant charge, and projectile for use in pistols,
revolvers, rifles, shot guns, or any other device designed to be used as a
weapon from which is expelled a projectile by the force of explosion or other
form of combustion. "Firearm Ammunition" shall not include blank ammunition
used solely in the course of motion picture, television, video, or theatrical
productions.



 



   (b)   The term "vendor", as used in this section, shall mean any
person who is engaged in the retail sale of firearm ammunition and retail
firearms dealers.



 



   (c)   No vendor shall sell or otherwise transfer ownership of any
firearm ammunition to any person other than those listed in subsection (g)
without at the time of purchase recording the following information on a form
to be prescribed by the Board of Police Commissioners:



 



   1.   the date of the transaction,



 



   2.   the name, address and date of birth of the transferee,



 



   3.   the transferee's drivers license or other identification number
and the state in which it was issued,



 



   4.   the brand, type and amount of ammunition transferred,



 



   5.   the transferee's signature, and



 



   6.   the name of the sales person who processed the transaction.



 



   The vendor shall also at the time of purchase or transfer obtain the
right thumb print of the purchaser or transferee on the above-referenced form.



 



   (d)   No vendor shall sell or otherwise transfer ownership of any
firearm ammunition without complying with all requirements of subsection (c)
in a face-to-face transaction.



 



   (e)   The records required by this section shall be maintained on
the premises of the vendor for a period of not less than two (2) years from
the date of the recorded transfer. Said records shall be subject to
inspection at any time during normal business hours in accordance with the
provisions of Section 103.14 of this Code. In addition, said records shall,
within five (5) calendar days of a firearm ammunition transfer, be
electronically transmitted to the Los Angeles Police Department in a format
and manner approved by the Chief of Police. (Amended by Ord. No. 183,328,
Eff. 1/24/15.)



 



   (f)   No person shall knowingly make a false entry in, or fail to
make a required entry in, or fail to obtain the required thumb print, or fail
to maintain in the required manner records prepared in accordance herewith. 
No person shall refuse to permit a police department employee to examine any
record prepared in accordance with this section during any inspection
conducted pursuant to this section, or refuse to permit the use of any record
or information therefrom by the police department.



 



   (g)   The requirements of subsection (c) shall not apply when the
purchaser is any of the following:



 



   1.   any person described in Section 12302 or 12322 of the Penal
Code of the State of California.



 



   2.   any off-duty peace officer who displays proper agency
identification which identifies him or her as an active peace officer.



 



   3.   any person who has been issued a permit to carry a concealed
weapon under the authority of Section 12050 of the Penal Code of the State of
California



 



   4.   any security guard licensed  under the authority of  Section
12033 of the Penal Code of the State of California.



 



   5.   any firearms dealer who has been issued a Federal Firearms
License, a Certificate of Eligibility by the State of California and a Seller
of Firearms Police Permit by the City of Los Angeles.



 



   6.   any firearm ammunition vendor who has been issued a Seller of
Ammunition Police Permit by the City of Los Angeles.



 



   (h)   Violation of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor.



 



 



SEC. 55.12.  DUTY TO REPORT THEFT OR LOSS OF FIREARMS; EXEMPTIONS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 178,010, Eff. 12/3/06.)



 



   A.   Any person who owns or possesses a firearm (as defined in Penal
Code Section 12001(b) or as amended) shall report the theft or loss of the
firearm to the Los Angeles Police Department within 48 hours of becoming
aware of the theft or loss, whenever:  (1) the person resides in the City of
Los Angeles; or (2) the theft or loss of the firearm occurs in the City of
Los Angeles.



 



   B.   Any person who has experienced the theft or loss of a firearm
within the five years prior to the effective date of this ordinance without
the firearm having been recovered during that period, and who otherwise meets
the reporting requirements in Section A. above, is required to report the
loss or theft of the firearm to the Los Angeles Police Department within 60
days of the effective date of this ordinance.



 



   C.   Any person who fails to report the theft or loss of a firearm
as required in Subsections A. or B., when the person knew or should have
known of the theft or loss, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.



 



   D.   Persons licensed to sell or manufacture firearms pursuant to
Penal Code Sections 12071 or 12086 are exempt from this section, if the
firearm lost or stolen was business merchandise, was lost or stolen from
their firearm-related business, or was in their possession pursuant to Penal
Code Section 12082.



 



   E.   If any provision of this ordinance is found to be
unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction,
that invalidity shall not affect the remaining provisions, which can be
implemented without the invalid provisions, and to this end, the provisions
of this ordinance are declared to be severable.



 



 



SEC. 55.12.1.  [DISPOSAL OF FIREARMS AND AMMUNITION.]



   (Added by Ord. No. 179,149, Eff. 10/7/07.)



 



   (a)   Definitions.



 



   1.   "Firearm," as used in this section, means any pistol, rifle,
shotgun or other device designed to be used as a weapon, from which a
projectile is expelled through a barrel by the force of an explosion or any
other form of combustion, or any device that is capable of being altered so
as to expel a projectile in that manner.  The term firearm includes the
frame of such weapon.



 



   2.   "Ammunition," as used in this section, means any projectile
designed to be expelled through the barrel of a firearm by the force of any
explosion or other form of combustion, including, but not limited to,
cartridge cases, primers, bullets, or propellant powder.



 



   (b)   Disposal of a firearm and/or ammunition in the City of Los
Angeles shall only be accomplished in either of the following two ways:



 



   1.   By selling, giving away or otherwise transferring the firearm
and/or ammunition in accordance with all applicable provisions of the
California Penal Code, Welfare and Institutions Code, and this Code; or



 



   2.   By surrendering the firearm and/or ammunition to a California
law enforcement agency for the purpose of destruction.



 



   (c)   Any person in the City of Los Angeles who disposes of a
firearm and/or ammunition in any manner other than as required by this
section, including, but not limited to, by depositing those item(s) in a
public trash receptacle or leaving in any public place, is guilty of a
misdemeanor.



 



 



SEC. 55.13.  SALE OF AMMUNITION CLIPS AND SIMILAR DEVICES.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 172,002, Eff. 6/5/98.)



 



   (a)   No person shall sell or otherwise transfer to any other person
a clip, magazine, belt, drum, feed strip or similar device which has a
capacity of, or which can be readily restored or converted to accept, more
than ten rounds of ammunition.



 



   (b)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to:



 



   1.   the sale or transfer of such devices to any person described in
Section 12302 or 12322 of the Penal Code of the State of California, or



 



   2.   the sale or transfer of ownership of such a device by a
wholesale gun dealer to another wholesale gun dealer or by a wholesale gun
dealer to a retail gun dealer, or



 



   3.   any entity or establishment engaged in the business of motion
picture, television, video, theatrical, or re-enactment production, provided
the clip, magazine, belt, drum, feed strip or similar device is used solely
as a prop in the course of motion picture, television, video, theater, or
re-enactment production by an authorized participant therein or by an
authorized agent or employee of the entity or establishment, and only if the
entity or establishment properly secures such clip, magazine, belt, drum,
feed strip or similar device from unauthorized use, or



 



   4.   any federal, state or local historical society, museum or
institutional collection which is open to the public provided any such clip,
magazine, belt, drum, feed strip or similar device is properly housed,
secured from unauthorized handling and is unloaded.



 



 



SEC. 55.14.  SALE OR PURCHASE OF MORE THAN ONE HANDGUN WITHIN A THIRTY DAY
PERIOD PROHIBITED.



   (Added by Ord. No. 172,430, Eff. 3/4/99, Oper. 6/3/99.)



 



   (a)   The term “dealer” shall mean a retail firearms dealer
licensed by the City of Los Angeles.



 



   (b)   No person shall make application to a dealer, as provided in
Section 12072 of the California Penal Code, to purchase a  pistol, revolver
or other firearm capable of being concealed upon the person, herein referred
to as “handgun”, within thirty (30) days of making a prior application
for the purchase of a handgun within the State of California.  In computing
the thirty (30) day period, the date the application is made shall be counted
as the first day.



 



   (c)   No dealer shall transfer the title of any handgun to any
person whom the dealer knows has made application to purchase more than one
handgun within the State of California within a thirty (30) day period prior
thereto, nor shall any dealer process a handgun transaction between
unlicensed parties pursuant to California Penal Code Section 12072 if the
dealer knows that the one receiving the handgun has made application to
purchase more than one handgun within the State of California within a thirty
(30) day period prior thereto.



 



   (d)   No dealer shall transfer the title of any handgun to any
person or process a handgun transaction between unlicensed parties pursuant
to California Penal Code Section 12072 if the dealer prior to transfer has
received notice from the California Department of Justice, herein referred to
as the “DOJ,” that DOJ has received an application for that person to
purchase a handgun within the State of California within a thirty (30) day
period prior thereto.  For the purposes of this subsection, the date of
application of purchase shall be the date the DOJ receives the Dealer Record
of Sale or receives the transmission of required information by any medium of
communication authorized under state law.



 



   (e)   For the purposes of this section, the redemption of a handgun
pledged to a pawnbroker shall not be deemed the sale, purchase or transfer of
title of that handgun.  However, a dealer may not rely on this exemption
unless the purchaser provides proof that the transaction was the redemption
of a handgun pawned to a pawnbroker by the purchaser.



 



   (f)   Each dealer shall maintain records of each sale of a handgun
to include the name of the purchaser, type of handgun, date of sale, and any
other information required by the Board of Police Commissioners.  Such
records shall be maintained on the premises of the dealer for a period of not
less than two (2) years and shall be subject to inspection at any time during
normal business hours.



 



   (g)   Each dealer shall post a sign in a conspicuous place with
letters at least one inch high stating the obligations and restrictions of
purchasers and dealers under this ordinance, pursuant to direction by the
Board of Police Commissioners.



 



   (h)   The dealer shall require the purchaser, at the time of
application for purchase, to indicate, on a form prescribed by the Board of
Police Commissioners, whether he or she has or has not made an application
for the purchase of a handgun within the last thirty (30) days, and which if
any of the exemptions set forth in Subsection (i) is applicable to the
purchaser. If any of the exemptions is checked, the restrictions of this
section shall not apply, provided all necessary information is supplied to
the dealer.  The form shall be signed by the purchaser under penalty of
perjury.  Such form shall be maintained on the premises of the dealer for a
period of not less than two (2) years from the date of signing and shall be
subject to inspection at any time during normal business hours.



 



   (i)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to the
following:



 



   1.   Any person who is licensed to sell firearms pursuant to Article
4, commencing with Section 12070, of the Penal Code of the State of
California.



 



   2.   Any law enforcement agency.



 



   3.   Any agency duly authorized to perform law enforcement duties.



 



   4.   Any state or local correctional facility.



 



   5.   Any private security company licensed to do business in the
State of California.



 



   6.   Any person who is properly identified as a full-time paid peace
officer, as defined in Section 830.1, 830.2, 830.4, or 830.5 of the Penal
Code of the State of California, and who is authorized to, and does, carry a
firearm during the course and scope of his or her employment as a peace
officer.



 



   7.   Any antique firearm, as defined in Paragraph (16) of Subsection
(a) of Section 921 of Title 18 of the United States Code.



 



   8.   Any person or entity who purchases firearms in a collector’s
series or a bulk purchase from an estate sale.



 



   9.   Any motion picture, television, or video production company, or
entertainment or theatrical company whose production  involves the use of a
handgun, and which secures such handgun from unauthorized use.



 



   10.   Any person who is exempt from the waiting period in
Subdivision (c) of Section 12072 of the Penal Code of the State of California.



 



   11.   Any person who is exempt from the provisions of Subdivision
(d) of Section 12072 of the Penal Code of the State of California.



 



   12.   Any person or entity conducting a transaction through a law
enforcement agency pursuant to Section 12084 of the Penal Code of the State
of California.



 



   13.   Any person or entity conducting a transaction described in
Subdivision (k) of Section 12078 of the Penal Code of the State of California.



 



   14.   Any person who is licensed as a collector pursuant to Chapter
44, (commencing with Section 921) of Title 18 of the United States Code and
the regulations issued pursuant thereto, and who has a current certificate of
eligibility issued to him or her by the Department of Justice pursuant to
Section 12071 of the Penal Code of the State of California.



 



   15.   Any person or entity acquiring a handgun by bequest or
intestate succession.



 



   16.   Any person or entity replacing a single handgun where the
handgun was lost or stolen, and the person reported that firearm lost or
stolen to the Los Angeles Police Department or appropriate law enforcement
agency and presents the dealer with evidence of such reporting.



 



   17.   Any seller’s exchange or replacement of a handgun for a
handgun purchased from that seller within the thirty (30) day period
immediately preceding the date of exchange or replacement.



 



   (j)   Violation of Subsection (b) shall be punishable as an
infraction subject to a fine of $50.00 for the first violation of that
subsection, as an infraction subject to a fine of $100.00 for the second
violation of the subsection and as a misdemeanor for the third or subsequent
violations of that subsection.  Each handgun applied for shall be deemed a
separate violation.



 



   (k)   If any provision of this section is for any reason held to be
invalid or unconstitutional by the decision of any court of competent
jurisdiction within the State of California, such decision shall not affect
the validity of the remaining provisions and the City declares that it would
have adopted the remaining provisions irrespective of the fact that a
provision or provisions are declared invalid or unconstitutional.



 



 



SEC. 55.15.  FINGERPRINTING OF FIREARMS PURCHASERS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 173,876, Eff. 5/18/01.)



 



   (a)   As used in this section, the term “firearm” shall mean any
pistol, revolver, shotgun, rifle, or other firearm, as that term is defined
in Section 103.314 of this Code.



 



   (b)   As used in this section, the term “dealer” shall mean any
person who is engaged in the retail sale of firearms and any retail firearms
dealer, as that term is defined in Section 103.314 of this Code.



 



   (c)   No dealer shall sell or otherwise transfer ownership of any
firearm without obtaining the right thumb print of the purchaser or
transferee on the California Department of Justice Dealer Record of Sale of
Firearm worksheet signed by the purchaser or transferee.  The thumb print
shall be recorded at the lower right hand corner on the back side of the
worksheet at the time that the worksheet is signed by the purchaser or
transferee.



 



   (d)   The thumb print record required by this section shall be
maintained on the premises of the dealer throughout the time period during
which the Dealer Record of Sale is required to be maintained by the dealer.
Such record shall be subject to inspection at any time during normal business
hours in accordance with the provisions of Section 103.14 of this Code.



 



   (e)   No person shall knowingly fail to obtain a required thumb
print, or knowingly fail to maintain the record of a thumb print required by
this section.  No person shall refuse to permit a law enforcement employee
to examine any record prepared in accordance with this section during any
inspection conducted pursuant to this section, or refuse to permit the use of
any such record or information in such record by a law enforcement agency.



 



   (f)   The requirements of this section shall not apply when the
purchaser or transferee is any of the following:



 



   (1)   Any person described in Section 12302 or 12322 of the
California Penal Code;



 



   (2)   Any off-duty peace officer who displays proper agency
identification which identifies him or her as an active peace officer;



 



   (3)   Any person who has been issued a permit to carry a concealed
weapon under the authority of Section 12050 of the California Penal Code;



 



   (4)   Any security guard licensed under the authority of Section
12033 of the California Penal Code;



 



   (5)   Any firearms dealer who has been issued a Federal Firearms
License, a Certificate of Eligibility by the State of California, and a
Seller of Firearms Permit by the City of Los Angeles.



 



   (g)   Any violation of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor.



 



 



SEC. 55.16.  SALE OF ULTRACOMPACT FIREARMS PROHIBITED.



   (Repealed by Ord. No. 185,152, Eff. 10/15/17.)



 



 



SEC. 55.17.  POSSESSION OF GUN PARTS IN AIRPORTS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 174,656, Eff. 8/3/02.)



 



   (a)   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly possess within any
airport or airport operations area, as defined in California Penal Code
Sections 602(t)(3)(A) and (C), either in an area to which access is
controlled by the inspection of persons and property or in an area in which
these inspections are conducted, any of the following items:



 



   (1)   any frame, receiver or barrel of a firearm;



 



   (2)   any ammunition as defined in California Penal Code Section
12316.



 



   (b)   This provision shall not apply to, or affect, any of the
following:



 



   (1)   a duly appointed peace officer, as defined in California Penal
Code Chapter 4.5 (commencing with California Penal Code Section 830) of Title
3 of Part 2, a retired peace officer with authorization to carry concealed
weapons as described in California Penal Code Section 12027(a), a full-time
paid peace officer of another state or the federal government who is carrying
out official duties while in California, or any person summoned by any of
these officers to assist in making arrests or preserving the peace while he
or she is actually engaged in assisting the officer.



 



   (2)    authorization to possess any frame, receiver or barrel of a
firearm or any ammunition granted, in writing, by the city official
designated by title 49 Code of Federal Regulations Section 1542.3 as the
person in charge of security of the airport.



 



   (c)   A violation of this section shall be punished by imprisonment
in a county jail for a period not exceeding six months, or by a fine not
exceeding $1,000, or by both that fine and imprisonment.



 



 



SEC. 55.18.  SALE OF LARGE CALIBER FIREARMS PROHIBITED.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 176,603, Eff. 6/5/05.)



 




   (a)   As used in this section, the term "large caliber firearm"
shall mean any firearm, as defined in Section 103.314 of this Code, capable
of firing a center-fire cartridge of .50 caliber or larger either by
designation or by actual measurement.  The term "large caliber firearm"
shall include any rifle or handgun.










   (b)   As used in this section, the term "rifle" shall mean any
firearm that is designed or redesigned, made or remade, and intended to be
fired from the shoulder and is designed to fire only a single projectile
through a rifled bore for each single pull of the trigger.  The term "rifle"
shall not include any shotgun.










   (c)   As used in this section, the term "handgun" shall mean any
firearm with a barrel less than 16 inches in length.  The term "handgun"
shall include any pistol, revolver, or concealable firearm as such terms are
defined in the California Penal Code.










   (d)   No person shall sell, give, transfer ownership of, transfer,
offer for sale, or display for sale any large caliber firearm.










   (e)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any sale or
transfer of a firearm which is prohibited under state law, of any destructive
device as defined in Section 12301 of the California Penal Code, of any
assault weapon as defined in the California Penal Code, or of any .50 BMG
rifle as defined in the California Penal Code.  The provisions of this
section shall not apply to any offer for sale or display in any periodical,
solicitation by mail, or use of the internet by a seller or offeror located
outside the City of Los Angeles.










   (f)   The provisions of Subsection (d) of this section shall not
apply where the purchaser or transferee is any of the following:










   (1)   A law enforcement agency;










   (2)   An agency duly authorized to perform law enforcement duties;










   (3)   A state or local correctional facility;










   (4)   A person described in Section 12302 or 12322 of the California
Penal Code, when acting within the course and scope of his or her law
enforcement duties;










   (5)   A federal law enforcement officer, when acting in the course
and scope of his or her law enforcement duties;










   (6)   A person who is properly identified as a full-time paid peace
officer, as defined in Section 830.1, 830.2, 830.4, or 830.5 of the
California Penal Code, and who is authorized to, and does, carry a firearm
during the course of his or her employment as a peace officer, and is acting
within the course and scope of such employment;










   (7)   A firearms dealer who has been issued a Federal Firearms
License, a Certificate of Eligibility by the State of California, and a
permit by the City of Los Angeles to engage in the retail sale of firearms;










   (8)   A purchaser of a curio or collector firearm.  A firearm shall
be deemed curio or collector only if it falls within one of these categories:










   (A)   It was manufactured prior to 1899;










   (B)   It is classified as a curio or relic pursuant to 27 Code of
Federal Regulations section 178.11, and the purchaser maintains a current
federal firearms collector license; or










   (C)   It is a muzzle-loading firearm;










   (9)   A federal, state, or local historical society, museum, or
institutional collection that is open to the public, provided that the large
caliber firearm is used for display purposes, is secured from unauthorized
use, and is unloaded;










   (10)   A person acting pursuant to a valid entertainment firearms
permit issued by the State of California; or










   (11)   A person who obtains title to a large caliber firearm by
bequest or intestate succession.










   (g)   Any violation of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor.




 



 



SEC. 55.19.  [SALE OF AMMUNITION FOR LARGE CALIBER FIREARMS PROHIBITED.]



   (Added by Ord. No. 180,448, Eff. 2/5/09.)

   (a)   Definitions.



 



   1.   "Firearm Ammunition" means any self-contained unit consisting
of the case, primer, propellant charge, and projectile for use in pistols,
revolvers, rifles, shot guns, or any other device designed to be used as a
weapon from which is expelled a projectile by the force of explosion or other
form of combustion. "Firearm Ammunition" shall not include blank ammunition
used solely in the course of motion picture, television, video, or theatrical
productions.



 



   2.   "Large caliber firearm" means any firearm, as defined in
Section 103.314 of this Code, capable of firing a center-fire cartridge of
.50 caliber or larger either by designation or by actual measurement.  The
term "large caliber firearm" shall include any rifle or handgun.



 



   (b)   No person shall sell, give, transfer ownership of, transfer,
offer for sale, or display for sale any firearm ammunition for any large
caliber firearm.



 



   (c)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any sale or
transfer of firearm ammunition which is prohibited under state law, including
but not limited to any destructive device as defined in Section 12301 of the
California Penal Code or any fixed ammunition of a caliber greater than .60
caliber as defined in Section 12304 of the California Penal Code.  The
provisions of this section shall not apply to any offer for sale or display
in any periodical, solicitation by mail, or use of the internet by a seller
or offeror located outside the City of Los Angeles.



 



   (d)   The provisions of Subsection (b) of this section shall not
apply where the purchaser or transferee is any of the following:



 



   (1)   A law enforcement agency;



 



   (2)   An agency duly authorized to perform law enforcement duties;



 



   (3)   A state or local correctional facility;



 



   (4)   A person described in Section 12302 or 12322 of the California
Penal Code, when acting within the course and scope of his or her law
enforcement duties;



 



   (5)   A federal law enforcement officer, when acting in the course
and scope of his or her law enforcement duties; and



 



   (6)   A person who is properly identified as a full-time paid peace
officer, as defined in Section 830.1, 830.2, 830.4, or 830.5 of the
California Penal Code, and who is authorized to, and does, carry a firearm
during the course of his or her employment as a peace officer, and is acting
within the course and scope of such employment.



 



   (e)   Penalty.  Any violation of this section shall constitute a
misdemeanor.



 



   (f)   Severability.  If any provision of this ordinance is found to
be unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent
jurisdiction, that invalidity shall not affect the remaining provisions,
which can be implemented without the invalid provisions, and to this end, the
provisions of this ordinance are declared to be severable.



 



 



SEC. 55.20.  FALSE OR SECRET COMPARTMENTS IN VEHICLES TO HIDE FIREARMS OR
DESTRUCTIVE DEVICES.



   (Added by Ord. No. 180,450, Eff. 2/7/09.)



 



   (a)   Definitions.



 



   1.   "False or Secret Compartment" means any box, container, space,
or enclosure that is intended or designed for use to conceal, hide, or
otherwise prevent discovery of any unlawfully possessed firearm or
destructive device, within or attached to a vehicle, including, but not
limited to, any of the following:



 



   (i)   False, altered, or modified fuel tanks;



 



   (ii)   Original factory equipment of a vehicle that is modified,
altered, or changed;



 



   (iii)   Compartment, space, or box that is added to, or fabricated,
made, or created from, existing compartments, spaces, or boxes within a
vehicle.



 



   2.   "Vehicle" means any of the following vehicles without regard to
whether the vehicles are private or commercial, including, but not limited
to, cars, trucks, buses, motor homes, motorcycles, aircraft, boats, ships,
yachts, and vessels.



 



   3.   "Firearm", as used in this section, means any pistol, rifle,
shotgun or other device designed to be used as a weapon, from which a
projectile is expelled through a barrel by the force of an explosion or any
form of combustion, or any device that is capable of being altered so as to
expel a projectile in that manner.  The term firearm includes the frame of
such weapon.



 



   4.   "Destructive device" means a destructive device as defined in
Section 12301 of the California Penal Code.



 



   (b)   It is unlawful for any person to possess, use, or control a
False or Secret Compartment with the intent to store, conceal, smuggle, or
transport any unlawfully possessed firearm or destructive device.



 



   (c)   It is unlawful for any person to design, construct, build,
alter, or fabricate a False or Secret Compartment for, or install or attach a
False or Secret Compartment in or to a vehicle.



 



   (d)   Penalty.  Violation of this section shall constitute a
misdemeanor.



 



   (e)   Severability.  If any provision of this ordinance is found to
be unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent
jurisdiction, that invalidity shall not affect the remaining provisions which
can be implemented without the invalid provisions, and to this end, the
provisions of this ordinance are declared to be severable.



 



 



SEC. 55.21.  SAFE STORAGE OF FIREARMS.



   (Title and Section Amended, Ord. No. 186,311, Eff. 9/13/19.)



 



   (a)   Definitions.



 



   1.   "Firearm" means a Firearm as defined in California Penal Code,
Section 16520, as amended from time to time.



 



   2.   "Locked Container" means a secure container which is fully
enclosed and locked by a padlock, key lock, combination lock or similar
locking device.



 



   3.   "Residence" means any structure intended or used for human
habitation, including, but not limited to, houses, condominiums, rooms,
in-law units, motels, hotels, single room occupancies, time-shares, and
recreational and other vehicles where human habitation occurs.



 



   4.   "Trigger Lock" means a trigger lock that is listed on the
California Department of Justice's roster of approved firearm safety devices
and that is identified as appropriate for that firearm by reference to either
the manufacturer and model of the firearm or to the physical characteristics
of the firearm that match those listed on the roster for use with the device
under Penal Code Section 23655(d).



 



   (b)   Prohibition.  No person shall keep a firearm within a
residence unless the firearm is:



 



   1.   Stored in a locked container or disabled with a trigger lock
that has been approved by the California Department of Justice;



 



   2.   Carried on the person of the owner or other lawfully authorized
user of the firearm who is over the age of 18; or



 



   3.   Within close enough proximity and control that the owner or
other lawfully authorized user of the firearm who is over the age of 18 can
readily retrieve and use the firearm as if carried on the person.



 



   (c)   Penalty.  Every violation of this Section shall constitute a
misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished by a fine not to exceed
$1,000 or by imprisonment in the county jail not to exceed six months, or by
both.



 



   (d)   Severability.  If any provision of this Section is found to
be unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent
jurisdiction, that invalidity shall not affect the remaining provisions of
this Section which can be implemented without the invalid provisions, and to
this end, the provisions of this Section are declared to be severable.  The
City Council hereby declares that it would have adopted this Section and each
provision thereof irrespective of whether any one or more provisions are
found invalid, unconstitutional or otherwise unenforceable.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 6
PUBLIC HAZARDS



 



 



Section



56.00   Words and Phrases.



56.01   Window Sills – Placing Articles on.



56.02   Silly String – Hollywood Division During Halloween.



56.07   Hat Block – Revolving Device.



56.08   Sidewalks – Streets – Obstructions.



56.09   Sidewalks – Opening in.



56.10   Sidewalks – Sprinklers.



56.11   Storage of Personal Property.



56.12   Obstructions on Streets and Sidewalks.



56.13   Streets – Sidewalks – Traps – Receiving Goods – Time.



56.14   Streets – Loading or Unloading Freight Cars Upon.



56.15   Bicycle Riding – Sidewalks.



56.15.1   Use of Skateboards.



56.15.2   Skateboarding Prohibited.



56.16   Streets – Sidewalks –  Playing Ball or Games of Sport.



56.20   Street Cars – Places of Stopping.



56.22   Traumatic Injuries – Reports Of.



56.23   Traumatic Injuries – Hospital Report Of.



56.24   Bodily Specimens in Locked Containers.



56.30   Trespassing and Loitering – Forbidden Upon and Near Posted
Properties.



56.31   Unmanned Aircraft Systems.



 



 



SEC. 56.00.  WORDS AND PHRASES.



 



   For the purpose of this article the following words and phrases are
defined, and shall be construed as hereafter set out, unless it shall be
apparent from the context that they have a different meaning:



 



   “Accident” shall mean any occurrence arising out of or taking place
in connection with the operation of a street railroad or interurban railroad,
that involves the death of any person, or any draught animal, or any injury
to any person sufficient to require the service of a physician or surgeon, or
the collision of one car against another or against a vehicle of any kind.



 



   “Parkway” shall mean that portion of a public street other than a
roadway or a sidewalk. (Added by Ord. No. 123,979, Eff. 4/20/63.)



 



   “Roadway” shall mean that portion of a street which is improved or
designed, or ordinarily used for vehicular travel. (Added by Ord. No.
123,979, Eff. 4/20/63.)



 



   “Sidewalk” shall mean that portion of a street, other than the
roadway, set apart by curbs, barriers, markings or other delineation for
pedestrian travel. (Added by Ord. No. 123,979, Eff. 4/20/63.)



 



   “Street” shall mean and include all streets, highways, avenues,
lanes, alleys, courts, places, squares or other public ways in this City
which have been or may hereafter be dedicated to the public use, or such
other public property so designated in any law of this State. (Added by Ord.
No. 123,979, Eff. 4/20/63.)



 



 



SEC. 56.01.  WINDOW SILLS – PLACING ARTICLES ON.



 



   No person shall place, leave or deposit in or upon any window ledge or
window sill or other portion of any building more than one story in height,
located within any business district, as said districts are now defined in
the Vehicle Code (Statutes 1935, Chapter 27) of this State, any article or
thing, unless such article or thing is securely fastened or unless a railing
or other device is constructed, erected and maintained in connection with any
such window ledge, window sill or other portion of said building so as to
prevent any such article or thing from falling in, into or upon any street or
sidewalk.



 



 



SEC. 56.02.  SILLY STRING – HOLLYWOOD DIVISION DURING HALLOWEEN.



   (Added by Ord. No. 176,176, Eff. 10/6/04.)



 



   (a)   For purposes of this section:



 



   1.   "Silly String" shall mean any putty-like substance that is shot
or expelled in the form of string from an aerosol can or other pressurized
device, regardless of whether it is sold under the name "Silly String" or any
other name.



 



   2.   "Hollywood Division" shall mean the area defined by the Los
Angeles Police Department as the Hollywood Division, the geographical
boundaries of which include all of that portion of Los Angeles City bounded
and described as follows:  Beginning at the point of intersection of Beverly
Boulevard and Normandie Avenue, and proceeding northerly along Normandie
Avenue to Franklin Avenue, and proceeding westerly along Franklin Avenue to
Western Avenue, and proceeding northerly along Western Avenue to Fern Dell
Drive, and continuing northerly along Fern Dell Drive to its terminus, and
proceeding due north through Griffith Park to Forest Lawn Drive at its
intersection with Zoo Drive, and proceeding westerly and southwesterly along
Forest Lawn Drive to Barham Boulevard, and proceeding southerly along Barham
Boulevard to United States Highway 101, and proceeding southeasterly along
U.S. Highway 101 to Mulholland Drive, and proceeding westerly along the
various curves and courses of Mulholland Drive to the Crest of Ridge, and
proceeding southerly following the Los Angeles city line along the eastern
border of the Trousdale Estates area of the City of Beverly Hills to the
northeast corner of the City of West Hollywood, and proceeding easterly
following the Los Angeles city line bordering along its various curves and
courses of the northern border of the City of West Hollywood to the eastern
border of the City of West Hollywood that is to the east of La Brea Avenue,
and proceeding southerly along the Los Angeles city line to Romaine Street,
and proceeding westerly following the Los Angeles city line along its various
curves and courses to the intersection of Romaine Street and La Cienega
Boulevard, and proceeding southerly following the Los Angeles city line along
its various curves and courses to Beverly Boulevard, and proceeding easterly
along Beverly Boulevard to La Brea Avenue, and proceeding northerly along La
Brea Avenue to Willoughby Avenue, and proceeding easterly along Willoughby
Avenue to Hudson Avenue, and proceeding southerly along Hudson Avenue to
Melrose Avenue, and proceeding easterly along Melrose Avenue to Gower Street,
and proceeding southerly along Gower Street to Beverly Boulevard, and
proceeding easterly along Beverly Boulevard to Normandie Avenue.



 



   3.   "Halloween" shall mean the 36-hour period from 12:00 a.m. on
October 31st of each year, through 12:00 p.m. on November 1st of each year.



 



   (b)   No Person, as defined in Municipal Code Section 11.01(a),
shall possess, use, sell or distribute Silly String at, within or upon any
public or private property that is either within public view or accessible to
the public, including, but not limited to, public or private streets,
sidewalks, parking lots, commercial or residential buildings, places of
business, or parks within the Hollywood Division during Halloween.



 



   (c)   Any violation of this section is a misdemeanor subject to the
provisions of Los Angeles Municipal Code Section 11.00(m).



 



 



SEC. 56.07.  HAT BLOCK – REVOLVING DEVICE.



 



   No person shall operate or maintain upon or adjacent to any public
sidewalk any hat block or other device which revolves or rotates by means of
power, unless such hat block or other device is separated from the sidewalk
by a suitable barrier to prevent persons using the sidewalk from coming in
contact with such hat block or other revolving device, or unless such hat
block or other revolving device is screened with a metal screen or a mesh not
greater than one quarter of an inch in size.



 



 



SEC. 56.08.  SIDEWALKS – STREETS – OBSTRUCTIONS.



 



   (a)   No person owning, leasing, occupying, having charge or control
of any lot or premises, shall allow, keep or maintain any tree, bush or
vegetation growing upon any lot or premises abutting any street or sidewalk
or upon any street or sidewalk so that the limbs, twigs, leaves or parts of
such tree, bush or vegetation interfere with or obstruct the free passage of
pedestrians or vehicles along or upon said streets or sidewalks.



 



   (b)   Trees or bushes greater than fifteen feet in height growing in
or upon any premises or sidewalk shall be deemed to interfere with and
obstruct the free passage of pedestrians or vehicles upon said streets and
sidewalks within the meaning of this section unless the lower limbs, twigs or
leaves of such trees or bushes are kept removed at all times so as to have a
minimum clearance of:



 



   1.   13 feet 6 inches over that portion of State highways and major
streets improved, designed or ordinarily used for vehicular traffic;



 



   2.   11 feet over that portion of local streets improved, designed,
or ordinarily used for vehicular traffic;



 



   3.   9 feet over the sidewalk and parkway area of all streets. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 106,987, Eff. 3/24/56.)



 



   (c)   No person having charge or control of any lot or premises
shall allow any soil, rubbish, trash, garden refuse, tree trimmings, ashes,
tin cans or other waste or refuse to remain upon any sidewalk, parkway, or in
or upon any street abutting on or adjacent to such lot or premises, or which
will interfere with or obstruct the free passage of pedestrians or vehicles
along any such street, sidewalk or parkway. (Amended by Ord. No. 123,979,
Eff. 4/20/63.)



 



   (d)   No person having charge or control of any lot, building, or
premises, shall clean or sweep any dirt, rubbish or refuse from any sidewalk
into the street; provided that nothing contained in this section shall
prevent such person from cleaning or sweeping any dirt, rubbish, or refuse
from any sidewalk and disposing of the same on or in said lot, building or
premises, where such disposition does not create a nuisance and is not
prohibited by any other ordinance. (Amended by Ord. No. 148,466, Eff.
7/29/76.)



 



   (e)   (Amended by Ord. No. 128,577, Eff. 11/14/64.)



 



   1.   No person having charge or control of any lot or premises,
either as owner, lessee, tenant, builder, contractor, housemover, or
otherwise, shall construct, deposit or maintain any structure, building,
rock, brick, broken concrete, stepping stones, sprinkler heads or any
obstacle of any nature whatsoever in or upon any street, sidewalk or parkway
abutting on or adjacent to such lot or premises or which will interfere with
the free passage of pedestrians or vehicles along such street, sidewalk or
parkway.



 



   2.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to sprinkler
heads or bricks in tree wells which are properly maintained on grade with the
surface of the sidewalk or parkway in which they are located.



 



   3.   The Board of Public Works may grant deviations or modifications
of this subsection, upon written application therefor, so as to permit the
installation and maintenance of bricks, stepping stones and similar walking
surfaces in parkways, on grade with the surface thereof, whenever it is
determined that the following conditions exist:



 



   a.   That the deviation or modification requested arises from
unusual or extraordinary physical conditions, and is necessary to permit the
proper and lawful development and use of the applicant’s property;



 



   b.   That the granting of the deviation or modification requested
will not be contrary to the public safety, convenience, and general welfare;



 



   c.   That the granting of the deviation or modification will not
adversely affect the rights of adjacent property owners or tenants.



 



   (f)   No person shall excavate on any land sufficiently close to the
property line to endanger any adjoining street, sidewalk, alley, or other
public property, without supporting and protecting such street, sidewalk,
alley, or other public property from settling, cracking, or other damage
which might result from such excavation.



 



   (g)   Any person having charge or control of any lot or premises who
violates the provisions of Subsections (a) or (c) shall be subject to
administrative penalties as set forth in Subsection (h).  (Added by Ord. No.
182,778, Eff. 12/16/13.)



 



   (h)   The first violation of Subsections (a) or (c) in a calendar
year is subject to a warning or an administrative monetary penalty not to
exceed $50.00.  Subsequent violations in the same calendar year will result
in a second penalty not to exceed $100.00 for the second violation after
receiving the initial $50.00 penalty.  The penalty for the third
administrative violation in a calendar year is $150.00.  More than three
administrative fines in one calendar year shall result in the violation being
prosecuted as a misdemeanor and the violator shall be subject to all
penalties applicable to criminal violations.  The Bureau of Street Services
is authorized to assess a processing fee established by the Board of Public
Works for all citations with an administrative monetary penalty.  All
non-criminal enforcement actions are subject to the administrative hearing
process as mandated by California Government Code Section 53069.4.  (Added
by Ord. No. 182,778, Eff. 12/16/13.)



 



   (i)   Any person who receives a written notice or administrative
monetary penalty pursuant to this section may request an administrative
review of the accuracy of the determination or the propriety of any fine
issued by filing a written notice of appeal with the Board of Public Works no
later than 30 days after receipt of a written notice or fine, as
applicable.  The notice of appeal must include all facts supporting the
appeal and any supporting documentation, including copies of all photos,
statements and other documents that the appellant wishes to be considered in
connection with the appeal.  The appeal shall be heard by the Board of
Public Works.  The Board of Public Works shall conduct a publicly noticed
hearing concerning the appeal within 45 days from the date that the notice of
appeal is filed, or on a later date if agreed upon by the appellant and the
Board of Public Works, and shall give the appellant at least 10 days prior
written notice of the date of the hearing.  The Board of Public Works may
sustain, rescind, or modify the written notice or fine, as applicable.  The
Board of Public Works shall have the power to waive any portion of the fine
in a manner consistent with its decision.  The decision of the Board of
Public Works shall be final and effective on the date the decision is
rendered.  (Added by Ord. No. 182,778, Eff. 12/16/13.)



 



   An Ordinance prohibiting obstruction of streets or sidewalks is valid.



   In re Bodkin (1948), 86 Cal. App. 2d 208.



 



   The public is entitled to free and unobstructed use of entire streets
and sidewalks for purposes of travel subject only to reasonable and proper
control of the municipality.



   People v. Amdur (1954) 123 Cal. App. 2d Supp. 951.



 



 



SEC. 56.09.  SIDEWALKS – OPENING IN.



 



   (a)   No person shall construct or maintain, any permanent opening
in any sidewalk, unless the same be constructed and maintained in the manner
required by this section.



 



   Every such opening in any sidewalk shall be covered with metal trap
doors. The sides or ends of any such door nearest the curb shall not be less
than four (4) feet from the outer edge of such curb and no such door shall be
more than five (5) feet in width; provided however, that the provisions of
this section regulating the width of any such door and its distance from the
curb shall not apply to any such door erected, constructed or maintained
prior to the passage of Ordinance No. 20,449 (N.S.), approved June 16, 1910.
Metal guards of the kind herein described shall be provided and maintained at
each such opening. Each such metal guard shall reach to the height of such
doors when the same are open and shall be constructed of wire mesh, the
meshes of which shall not exceed three inches in the greatest dimension.



 



   In addition to the opening hereinbefore described, an opening through a
sidewalk not more than thirty inches in its greatest dimension, may be
maintained for the admittance of fuel to the cellar or basement of the
building fronting on such portion of such sidewalk. Every such opening shall
have a metal cover flush with the surface of the sidewalk, and its upper
surface shall be roughened.



 



   All structural parts of sidewalks, including such doors and covers,
shall be capable of sustaining a uniform live load of 300 pounds per square
foot. (Amended by Ord. No. 113,043, Eff. 4/23/59.)



 



   (b)   No person shall open any such door, unless a metal guard is
placed along the edge of and on each side of such opening and so maintained
during such time as such door shall remain open; provided, however, that such
metal guard need not be placed or maintained along the side of such opening
on which goods, wares, merchandise or other articles are being removed from
or taken into the space beneath such opening, if a person is stationed on the
sides of such opening for the purpose of warning passers-by and of preventing
accidents.



 



   (c)   No person shall keep open any door or cover of any opening
mentioned in this section, except during such time as goods, wares,
merchandise or other articles are actually being removed from or taken into
the space beneath such opening.



 



   (d)   No person shall construct or maintain, in any sidewalk, any
opening covered with a grating of any description, or any permanent uncovered
opening provided however the Board of Public Works may grant permits for such
in conjunction with the construction of rapid transit facilities/stations
subject to compliance with such terms and conditions imposed by the Board,
including, but not limited to, providing general liability insurance and
agreeing to indemnify the City. Any grating so installed in the sidewalk and
any metal exit doors shall be designed, installed and maintained to the
satisfaction of the City Engineer. (Amended by Ord. No 162,778, Eff.
10/11/87.)



 



 



SEC. 56.10.  SIDEWALKS – SPRINKLERS.



 



   No person shall put, place, attach or suspend, any sprinkler, or other
attachment or device used in watering or sprinkling lawns, plants or flowers,
so as to cause water to be thrown from the same upon or across any public
sidewalk in such manner as to prevent or interfere with the free and
uninterrupted passage of any person upon such sidewalk.



 



 



SEC. 56.11.  STORAGE OF PERSONAL PROPERTY.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 184,182, Eff. 4/11/16.)



 



   1.   Declaration of Legislative Intent - Purpose.  The City enacts
this section to balance the needs of the residents and public at large to
access clean and sanitary public areas consistent with the intended uses for
the public areas with the needs of the individuals, who have no other
alternatives for the storage of personal property, to retain access to a
limited amount of personal property in public areas.  On the one hand, the
unauthorized use of public areas for the storage of unlimited amounts of
personal property interferes with the rights of other members of the public
to use public areas for their intended purposes and can create a public
health or safety hazard that adversely affects those who use public areas. 
On the other hand, the City's large and vulnerable homeless population needs
access to a manageable amount of essential property for their personal use
and well-being.  This section attempts to balance the needs of all of the
City's residents.



 



   2.   Definitions.  The definitions contained in this subsection
shall govern the construction, meaning and application of words and phrases
used in this section.



 



   (a)   "Alley" means any Highway having a Roadway not exceeding 25
feet in width which is primarily for access to the rear or side entrances of
abutting property.



 



   (b)   "Bikeway" means all facilities that provide primarily for, and
promote, bicycle travel.



 



   (c)   "Bulky Item" means any item, with the exception of a
constructed Tent, operational bicycle or operational walker, crutch or
wheelchair, that is too large to fit into a 60-gallon container with the lid
closed, including, but not limited to, a shed, structure, mattress, couch,
chair, other furniture or appliance.  A container with a volume of no more
than 60 gallons used by an individual to hold his or her Personal Property
shall not in itself be considered a Bulky Item.



 



   (d)   "City Employee" means any full or part-time employee of the
City of Los Angeles or a contractor retained by the City for the purpose of
implementing this Section.



 



   (e)   "Essential Personal Property" means any and all Personal
Property that cumulatively is less than two cubic feet in volume, which, by
way of example, is the amount of property capable of being carried within a
backpack.



 



   (f)   "Excess Personal Property" means any and all Personal Property
that cumulatively exceeds the amount of property that could fit in a
60-gallon container with the lid closed.



 



   (g)   "Highway" means a way or place of whatever nature, publicly
maintained and open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.



 



   (h)   "Parkway" means the area of the Street between the back of the
curb and the Sidewalk that typically is planted and landscaped.



 



   (i)   "Person" means any individual.



 



   (j)   "Personal Property" means any tangible property, and includes,
but is not limited to, goods, materials, merchandise, Tents, tarpaulins,
bedding, sleeping bags, hammocks, personal items such as household items,
luggage, backpacks, clothing, documents and medication.



 



   (k)   "Public Area" or "Public Areas" means all property that is
owned, managed or maintained by the City, except property under the
jurisdiction of the Department of Recreation and Parks which is governed by
Los Angeles Municipal Code Section 63.44, and shall include, but not be
limited to, any Street, medial strip, space, ground, building or structure.



 



   (l)   "Roadway" means that portion of a Highway improved, designed
or ordinarily used for vehicular travel.



 



   (m)   "Sidewalk" means that portion of a Highway, other than the
Roadway, set apart by curbs, barriers, markings or other delineation, for
pedestrian travel.



 



   (n)   "Storage Facility" means any facility, whether operated by a
public, non-profit or private provider, which allows and has capacity for
voluntary storage, free of charge, for a homeless person to store Personal
Property up to the equivalent of the amount of property that would fit into a
single 60-gallon container with the lid closed.



 



   (o)   "Store", "Stored", "Storing" or "Storage" means to put
Personal Property aside or accumulate for use when needed, to put for
safekeeping, and/or to place or leave in a Public Area.  Moving Personal
Property to another location in a Public Area or returning Personal Property
to the same block on a daily or regular basis shall be considered Storing and
shall not be considered to be removing the Personal Property from a Public
Area.  This definition shall not include any Personal Property that,
pursuant to statute, ordinance, permit, regulation or other authorization by
the City or state, is Stored with the permission of the City or state on real
property that is owned or controlled by the City.



 



   (p)   "Street" includes every Highway, avenue, lane, Alley, court,
place, square, Sidewalk, Parkway, curbs, Bikeway or other public way in this
City which has been or may hereafter be dedicated and open to public use, or
such other public property so designated in any law of this state.



 



   (q)   "Tent" means a collapsible shelter made of fabric such as
nylon or canvas or a tarp stretched and sustained by supports, which is not
open on all sides and which hinders an unobstructed view behind or into the
area surrounded by the fabric.  In order to qualify as a Tent for purposes
of this subsection, a Tent, when deconstructed, must be able to fit within a
60-gallon container with the lid closed.



 



   (r)   "Unattended" means no Person is present with the Personal
Property who asserts or claims ownership over the Personal Property. 
Conversely, property is considered "Attended" if a Person is present with the
Personal Property and the Person claims ownership over the Personal Property.



 



   3.   Regulation and Impoundment of Stored Personal Property; Discard
of Certain Stored Personal Property.



 



   (a)   No Person shall Store any Unattended Personal Property in a
Public Area.  With pre-removal notice as specified in Subsection 4.(a), the
City may impound any Unattended Personal Property in a Public Area,
regardless of volume.  Post-removal notice shall be provided as set forth in
Subsection 4.(b), below.



 



   (b)   No Person shall Store any Attended Excess Personal Property in
a Public Area.  With pre-removal notice as specified in Subsection 4.(a),
the City may impound any Attended Excess Personal Property Stored in a Public
Area.  Post-removal notice shall be provided as set forth in Subsection
4.(b), below.



 



   (c)   No Person shall Store any Personal Property in a Public Area
in such a manner as to obstruct City operations, including a Street or
Sidewalk maintenance or cleaning.  Without prior notice, the City may
temporarily move Personal Property, whether Attended or Unattended, which is
obstructing City operations in a Public Area, including a Street or Sidewalk
maintenance or cleaning, during the time necessary to conduct the City
operations.  The City also may impound Personal Property that is obstructing
City operations in a Public Area, pursuant to Subsection 3.(a) or 3.(b).



 



   (d)   No Person shall Store any Personal Property in a Public Area
in such a manner that it does not allow for passage as required by the
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, Pub. L. No. 101-336, 104 Stat. 328
(1990), as amended from time to time (ADA).  Without prior notice, the City
may move and may immediately impound any Personal Property, whether Attended
or Unattended, Stored in a Public Area in such a manner that it does not
allow for passage as required by the ADA.  Post-removal notice shall be
provided as set forth in Subsection 4.(b), below.



 



   (e)   No Person shall Store any Personal Property within ten feet of
any operational and utilizable entrance, exit, driveway or loading dock. 
Without prior notice, the City may move and may immediately impound any
Personal Property, whether Attended or Unattended, Stored in a Public Area
within ten feet of any operational and utilizable entrance, exit, driveway or
loading dock.  Post-removal notice shall be provided as set forth in
Subsection 4.(b), below.



 



   (f)   No Person shall Store in a Public Area that has a clearly
posted closure time any Personal Property after the posted closure time. 
Without prior notice, the City may remove and impound Personal Property,
whether Attended or Unattended, Stored in a Public Area that has a clearly
posted closure time, provided the Personal Property is removed and impounded
after the posted closure time.  Post-removal notice shall be provided as set
forth in Subsection 4.(b), below.



 



   (g)   No Person shall Store any Personal Property in a Public Area
if the Personal Property, whether Attended or Unattended, constitutes an
immediate threat to the health or safety of the public.  Without prior
notice, the City may remove and may discard any Personal Property Stored in a
Public Area if the Personal Property poses an immediate threat to the health
or safety of the public.



 



   (h)   No Person shall Store any Personal Property in a Public Area
if the Personal Property, whether Attended or Unattended, constitutes an
evidence of a crime or contraband.  Without prior notice, the City may
remove and may discard any Personal Property that constitutes evidence of a
crime or contraband, as permissible by law.



 



   (i)   No Person shall Store any Bulky Item in a Public Area. 
Without prior notice, the City may remove and may discard any Bulky Item,
whether Attended or Unattended, Stored in a Public Area unless the Bulky Item
is designed to be used as a shelter.  For any Bulky Item that is designed to
be used as a shelter but does not constitute a Tent as defined in Subsection
2.(q), with pre-removal notice as specified in Subsection 4.(a), the City may
remove and discard the Bulky Item, whether Attended or Unattended.  If the
Bulky Item violates Subsection 3.(d)-(h) herein, even if it is designed to be
used as a shelter, without prior notice, the City may remove and discard the
Bulky Item, whether Attended or Unattended.



 



   (j)   Upon the creation of any new Storage Facility, increased
capacity at an Existing Storage Facility or subsidized transportation
assistance to a Storage Facility, the Chief Administrative Officer shall
report to the Council to inform the Council's consideration of whether to
prohibit a Person from Storing more than Essential Personal Property in a
Public Area in a specified radius from a Storage Facility, based upon the
amount of the additional storage capacity and the accessibility thereto.  In
consideration of the CAO's report, the Council may, by resolution, prohibit a
Person within a specified radius of a Storage Facility from Storing more than
Essential Personal Property in a Public Area.



 



   4.   Notice.



 



   (a)   Pre-Removal Notice.  Pre-removal notice shall be deemed
provided if a written notice is provided to the Person who is Storing or
claims ownership of the Personal Property, or is posted conspicuously on or
near the Personal Property and the actual removal commences no more than 72
hours after the pre-removal notice is posted.  The written notice shall
contain the following:



 



   (1)   A general description of the Personal Property to be removed.



 



   (2)   The location from which the Personal Property will be removed.



 



   (3)   The date and time the notice was posted.



 



   (4)   A statement that the Personal Property has been stored in
violation of Section 56.11, Subsection 3.



 



   (5)   A statement that the Personal Property may be impounded if not
removed from Public Areas within 24 hours.



 



   (6)   A statement that moving Personal Property to another location
in a Public Area shall not be considered removal of Personal Property from a
Public Area.



 



   (7)   The address where the removed Public Property will be located,
including a telephone number and the internet website of the City through
which a Person may receive information as to impounded Personal Property as
well as information as to voluntary storage location(s).



 



   (8)   A statement that impounded Personal Property may be discarded
if not claimed within 90 days after impoundment.



 



   (b)   Post-Removal Notice.  Upon removal of Stored Personal
Property, written notice shall be conspicuously posted in the area from which
the Personal Property was removed.  The written notice shall contain the
following:



 



   (1)   A general description of the Personal Property removed.



 



   (2)   The date and approximate time the Personal Property was
removed.



 



   (3)   A statement that the Personal Property was stored in a Public
Area in violation of Section 56.11, Subsection 3.



 



   (4)   The address where the removed Personal Property will be
located, including a telephone number and internet website of the City
through which a Person may receive information as to impounded Personal
Property.



 



   (5)   A statement that impounded Personal Property may be discarded
if not claimed within 90 days after impoundment.



 



   5.   Storage and Disposal.




   (a)   Except as specified herein, the City shall move Personal
Property to a place of storage.



 



   (b)   Except as specified herein, the City shall store impounded
Personal Property for 90 days, after which time, if not claimed, it may be
discarded.  The City shall not be required to undertake any search for, or
return, any impounded Personal Property stored for longer than 90 days.



 



   (c)   The City shall maintain a record of the date any impounded
Personal Property was discarded.



 



   6.   Repossession.  The owner of impounded Personal Property may
repossess the Personal Property prior to its disposal upon submitting
satisfactory proof of ownership.  A Person may establish satisfactory proof
of ownership by, among other methods, describing the location from and date
when the Personal Property was impounded from a Public Area, and providing a
reasonably specific and detailed description of the Personal Property. 
Valid, government-issued identification is not required to claim impounded
Personal Property.



 



   7.   Ban on Erection of Tent during Certain Daytime Hours.  No
Person shall erect, configure or construct a Tent in any Public Area from
6:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. (except during rainfall or when the temperature is
below 50 degrees Fahrenheit).  A Person must take down, fold, deconstruct or
put away any Tent erected, configured or constructed in any Public Area
between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. (except during rainfall or when
the temperature is below 50 degrees Fahrenheit).  Without prior notice, the
City may deconstruct and may impound any Tent, whether Attended or
Unattended, located in any Public Area in violation of this subsection or in
violation of Subsections 3.(c)-(h) hereof.  The City shall provide
post-removal notice for any impounded Tent, as set forth in Subsection 4.(b),
herein.



 



   8.   Ban on Attachments to Public and Private Property.



 



   (a)   Public Property.  No Person shall erect any barrier against
or lay string or join any wires, ropes, chains or otherwise attach any
Personal Property to any public property, including but not limited to, a
building or portion or protrusion thereof, fence, bus shelter, trash can,
mail box, pole, bench, news rack, sign, tree, bush, shrub or plant, without
the City's prior written consent.



 



   (b)   Private Property.  No Person shall erect any barrier against
or lay string or join any wires, ropes, chains or otherwise attach any
Personal Property to any private property in such a manner as to create an
obstruction on or across any Street or area where the public may travel.



 



   (c)   Removal.  Without prior notice, the City may remove any
barrier, string, wires, ropes, chains or other attachment of Personal
Property, whether Attended or Unattended, to any public property, or to any
private property which creates an obstruction to any Street or area where the
public may travel.



 



   9.   Illegal Dumping.  Nothing herein precludes the enforcement of
any law prohibiting illegal dumping, including but not limited to California
Penal Code Section 374.3, and Los Angeles Municipal Code Sections 41.14,
63.44 B.13. or 190.02, or any successor statutes proscribing Illegal dumping.



 



   10.   Unlawful Conduct.  Los Angeles Municipal Code Section 11.00
shall not apply to violations of this section except as follows:



 



   (a)   No Person shall willfully resist, delay or obstruct a City
employee from moving, removing, impounding or discarding Personal Property
Stored in a Public Area in violation of Subsections 3.(a)-(h).



 



   (b)   No Person shall refuse to take down, fold, deconstruct or
otherwise put away any Tent erected or configured between the hours of 6:00
a.m. and 9:00 p.m., in violation of Subsection 7., or willfully resist, delay
or obstruct a City employee from taking down, folding, deconstructing,
putting away, moving, removing, impounding or discarding the Tent, including
by refusing to vacate or retreat from the Tent.



 



   (c)   No Person shall refuse to remove any barrier, string, wire,
rope, chain or other attachment that violates Subsection 8., or willfully
resist, delay or obstruct a City employee from deconstructing, taking down,
moving, removing, impounding or discarding the barrier, string, wire, rope,
chain or other attachment, including by refusing to vacate or retreat from an
obscured area created by the attachment.



 



   (d)   No Person shall willfully resist, delay or obstruct a City
employee from removing or discarding a Bulky Item Stored in violation of
Subsection 3.(i), including by refusing to vacate or retreat from within the
Bulky Item or from an obscured area created by the Bulky Item.



 



   (e)   If Subsection 3.(j) becomes operative by resolution in any
area of the City, no Person shall willfully resist, delay or obstruct a City
employee from removing or impounding any Personal Property that exceeds the
limit on Essential Personal Property.



 



   (f)   A violation of Subsection 9. prohibiting illegal dumping.



 



   11.   Designated Administrative Agency.  The City's Department of
Public Works, Bureau of Sanitation, is hereby charged with serving as the
Designated Administrative Agency (DAA), for the purposes of this ordinance. 
The DAA shall promulgate rules, protocols and procedures for the
implementation and enforcement of this ordinance, consistent with the
provisions herein.



 



   12.   Severability.  If any subsection, sentence, clause or phrase
of this article is for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by a
court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity
of the remaining portions of this ordinance.  The City Council hereby
declares that it would have adopted this section, and each and every
subsection, sentence, clause and phrase thereof not declared invalid or
unconstitutional, without regard to whether any portion of the ordinance
would be subsequently declared invalid or unconstitutional.



 



 



SEC. 56.12.  OBSTRUCTIONS ON STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.



   (Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 184,249, Eff. 5/3/16.)



 



   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity occupying or
having charge or control of any premises, to place or cause to be placed, or
allow to remain upon the sidewalk, or upon the street in front of such
premises, anything which shall obstruct any portion of the street or
sidewalk, without a valid permit therefor.  The prohibition in this section
shall not apply to any article or substance temporarily placed on the
sidewalk or street during the active process of loading or unloading, but
only during the minimum amount of time for the active loading and unloading
to occur and provided the article or substance does impede passage as
required by the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, Pub. L. No. 101-336,
104 Stat. 328 (1990), as amended from time to time.



 



   2.   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to enter into a
lease, rental agreement or contract of any kind, written or oral, with or
without compensation, for the use of any street or sidewalk.



 



 



SEC. 56.13.  STREETS – SIDEWALKS – TRAPS – RECEIVING GOODS – TIME.



 



   No person shall receive or deliver, any goods, wares or merchandise
through any trap or opening in or upon any street or sidewalk, between the
hours of four and six o’clock p.m. of any day, upon any portion of the
streets and sidewalks described as follows:



 



   Main Street, from First Street to Tenth Street;



 



   Spring Street, from First Street to its intersection with Main Street;



 



   Broadway, from First Street to Tenth Street;



 



   Hill Street, from Third Street to Ninth Street;



 



   First Street, from Los Angeles Street to Hill Street;



 



   Second Street, from Los Angeles Street to Hill Street;



 



   Third Street, from Los Angeles Street to Hill Street;



 



   Fourth Street, from Los Angeles Street to Hill Street;



 



   Fifth Street, from Los Angeles Street to Hill Street;



 



   Sixth Street, from Los Angeles Street to Hill Street, and



 



   Seventh Street from Los Angeles Street to Grand Avenue.



 



 



SEC. 56.14.  STREETS – LOADING OR UNLOADING FREIGHT CARS UPON.



 



   No person shall transfer any substance, commodity or article from any
freight or baggage car to any vehicle or from any vehicle to any freight or
baggage car while such freight or baggage car or vehicle is standing on any
street or upon any private right of way adjacent to any street.



 



 



SEC. 56.15.  BICYCLE RIDING – SIDEWALKS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 148,990, Eff. 12/17/76.)



 



   1.   No person shall ride, operate or use a bicycle, unicycle,
skateboard, cart, wagon, wheelchair, rollerskates, or any other device moved
exclusively by human power, on a sidewalk, bikeway or boardwalk in a willful
or wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 166,189, Eff. 10/7/90.)



 



   2.   No person shall ride, operate or use a bicycle or unicycle on
Ocean Front Walk between Marine Street and Via Marina within the City of Los
Angeles, except that bicycle or unicycle riding shall be permitted along the
bicycle path adjacent to Ocean Front Walk between Marine Street and
Washington Boulevard. (Amended by Ord. No. 153,474, Eff. 4/12/80.)



 



   3.   No person shall operate on a beach bicycle path, or on an area
of a beach which is set aside for bicycle or unicycle use, any bicycle or
tricycle which provides for side-by-side seating thereon or which has affixed
thereto any attachment or appendage which protrudes from the side of the
bicycle or tricycle and is used or designed to carry another person or
persons thereon.



 



   4.   For the purposes of this section motorized bicycles as defined
by Section 406 of the California Vehicle Code shall be included within the
terms “motor vehicle” as defined in Section 415 of the Vehicle Code and
as used in Section 21663 of the Vehicle Code.



 



 



SEC. 56.15.1.  USE OF SKATEBOARDS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 182,389, Eff. 3/17/13.)



 



   (a)   "Skateboard" defined.  As used in this chapter, a skateboard
is any board or other flat object which has wheels attached to it by any
means whatsoever and which is intended to be propelled by pushing, pulling,
body movement, or gravity and to which there is not affixed any device or
mechanism for steering.



 



   (b)   Skateboarding prohibited at specified locations.  The City
Council may, by ordinance, specify certain public roadways, public sidewalks,
public parking lots and other public property, or portions thereof, on which
skateboarding shall be prohibited.



 



   (c)   Skateboarding on public property.  Persons riding on
skateboards on public roadways, public sidewalks, public parking lots and
other public property shall comply with the following requirements and
restrictions:



 



   1.   Skateboarding in the upright position.  Persons riding on
skateboards shall do so only in the upright, standing position.  Using,
pushing, propelling or riding on a skateboard in a sitting, prone, kneeling
or lying position is prohibited.



 



   2.   Traffic controls.  Persons riding on skateboards on public
roadways shall obey all speed limits, stop signs, signal lights, and other
traffic controls that govern right-of-way.



 



   3.   Yielding to traffic in same direction.  Persons riding on
skateboards on public roadways shall ride close to the far-right edge of the
roadway, and shall yield to vehicles approaching from the rear by moving to
the right curb or shoulder of the roadway.



 



   4.   Uncontrolled intersections.  When approaching an uncontrolled
intersection, persons riding on skateboards on public roadways or public
sidewalks shall yield to vehicles that are so near as to present a hazard and
shall not cross the intersection at a speed in excess of ten (10) miles per
hour.



 



   5.   Manner of operation.  No person shall operate a skateboard
recklessly or in such a manner or at such a speed as to cause or threaten to
cause injury to himself or herself or to others, to create an obstruction or
to present a hazard to the free use of public property by other pedestrians
or motorists.



 



   6.   Attaching to or towing by vehicle.  A person operating a
skateboard shall not attach the same or himself or herself to any motor
vehicle on the roadway.  In addition, a person shall not knowingly drive a
motor vehicle that is towing a person riding upon a skateboard.



 



   (d)   Penalty for violations.  It shall be unlawful for any person
to violate or fail to comply with the provisions of this section.  Any
person violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty of an
infraction and shall be subject to fines as established by the City Council.



 



 



SEC. 56.15.2.  SKATEBOARDING PROHIBITED.



   (Added by Ord. No. 184,109, Eff. 4/4/16.)



 



   (a)   Prohibition.  No person shall ride a skateboard on Hermano
Drive between its northern boundary at Reseda Boulevard and its southern
terminus, which is a cul-de-sac.  This prohibition against skateboarding
shall include the roadway, parkway, and sidewalk of Hermano Drive.



 



   (b)   Penalty.  A first violation of this Section shall be an
infraction punishable by a fine in the amount of $50.  Any subsequent
violation of this Section shall be an infraction punishable by a fine in the
amount of $100.



 



 



SEC. 56.16.  STREETS – SIDEWALKS – PLAYING BALL OR GAMES OF SPORT.



 



   No person shall play ball or any game of sport with a ball or football
or throw, cast, shoot or discharge any stone, pellet, bullet, arrow or any
other missile, in, over, across, along or upon any street or sidewalk or in
any public park, except on those portions of said park set apart for such
purposes.



 



 



SEC. 56.17.  ROLLER SKATES AND SKATEBOARDS.



   (Repealed by  Ord. No. 165,073, Eff. 9/2/89.)



 



 



SEC. 56.18.



   (Repealed by Ord. No. 166.189, Eff. 10/7/90.)



 



 



SEC. 56.20.  STREET CARS – PLACES OF STOPPING.



 



   No person operating any street car or interurban car, along any street
or along or over a private right of way, shall stop any such car for the
purpose of taking on or letting off any passengers, at such a place or in
such a manner that any platform or step of such car will be over or above an
unsafe place, or in such a manner that any passenger in boarding such car or
in alighting therefrom at either end thereof will be compelled to step in or
upon any place dangerous to life or limb.



 



 



SEC. 56.22.  TRAUMATIC INJURIES – REPORTS OF.



 



   Every physician, surgeon, druggist or pharmacist who shall render any
treatment or service to any person having a traumatic injury, shall report
the same both by telephone and in writing to the Chief of Police or other
person in charge of the Police Department as soon as such injury shall have
been brought to the attention of such physician, surgeon, druggist or
pharmacist. Such report shall state where such injured person is located, the
name of such person, if known, and the character and extent of such injury.



 



 



SEC. 56.23.  TRAUMATIC INJURIES – HOSPITAL REPORT OF.



 



   Every person managing or in charge of any hospital, or of any ward or
portion of any hospital, to which any person having a traumatic injury shall
come or shall be brought, shall report the same both by telephone and in
writing to the Chief of Police or other person in charge of the Police
Department as soon as such injury shall have been brought to the attention of
such person managing or in charge of such hospital or ward or portion
thereof, and in such report shall state where such injured person is located,
the name of such person, if known, and the character and extent of such
injury.



 



 



SEC. 56.24.  BODILY SPECIMENS IN LOCKED CONTAINERS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 172,833, Eff. 10/31/99.)



 



   Any person conducting, maintaining, managing or operating any health
care facility where blood, urine or other bodily specimens are removed from
any patient shall cause all such specimens to be placed in locked containers
when placed or stored in areas accessible to the general public.



 



 



SEC. 56.30.  TRESPASSING AND LOITERING – FORBIDDEN UPON AND NEAR POSTED
PROPERTIES.



 



   (a)   Declaration of Purpose.  Public safety is hereby declared to
require that the uninterrupted operation of the aircraft and petroleum
industries and of utilities supplying water, gas and electricity be protected
by preventing the intrusion upon the properties thereof of idle, curious or
malicious persons and of persons whose presence thereon is not necessary, and
by prohibiting the loitering about such places by persons capable of
inflicting harm to or of impeding the use of such vital industries and
utilities.



 



   (b)   Posting – Manner of, Prescribed.  It shall be the duty of
each person, firm, corporation, governmental agency, department or
instrumentality and of each board, commission or department of this City,
which has possession and control, or which has the right to possession or
control of any of the facilities, plants and utility properties enumerated in
Subsection (c) hereof, to post at each entrance to any structure devoted to
any use so enumerated, at each entrance to any fenced or enclosed area
devoted to any such use, and at intervals not more than three hundred feet
around any area devoted to such use, substantial signs not less than one
square foot in area, displaying prominently the words, “TRESPASSING –
LOITERING – FORBIDDEN BY LAW”; provided, however that any public waiting
room, dining room, office or other portion of any structure or premises to
which general public access is required in the normal use and operation
thereof or where materials are delivered to or received by the public, need
not be so posted.



 



   The “posted boundary” of any area shall be a line running from sign
to sign, and such line need not conform to the legal boundary or legal
description of any lot, parcel or acreage of land.



 



   (c)   Posting – Where Required.  The places required to be so
posted are the following:



 



   1.   Every airport, and every plant, field and structure used for
the manufacture, assembling or testing of aircraft;



 



   2.   Every tank-farm, refinery, compressor-plant, or absorption
plant, marine terminal, pipe line pumping station and reservoir, used for the
bulk treatment, bulk handling or bulk storage of petroleum or petroleum
products;



 



   3.   Every reservoir, dam and pumping station of a public water
system;



 



   4.   Every reservoir, dam, generating plant, receiving station and
distributing station of a utility furnishing electrical energy to the public;



 



   5.   Every gas generating plant, compression plant, gas holder and
gas tank used for the production, distribution or bulk storage of gas for
public use.



 



   (d)   Posting – When Optional.  Any plant, facility, structure or
area devoted to any purpose incident to the production, bulk treatment, bulk
transportation or bulk storage of petroleum or petroleum products, or
incident to the production, transmission or distribution of gas or
electricity for public use, or incident to the treatment, storage or
distribution of water for public use, may likewise be posted by the owner or
operator in the manner hereinabove described.



 



   (e)   Trespassing – A Misdemeanor.  When any such premises is
posted as provided in this section, it shall be unlawful for any person to go
upon or to remain upon any place within the posted boundary of any such
premises, or to enter or to remain in any such posted structure, without
having upon his person the express written consent of the person, firm,
corporation, department or agency lawfully in possession or control thereof.



 



   (f)   Loitering – A Misdemeanor.  It shall be unlawful for any
person to loiter in the immediate vicinity of any premises posted as provided
in this section while having in his possession any explosive, or any cutting
tool or device, or any substance or device of whatever character capable of
doing harm or damage to any structure, machinery, equipment or other property
of a similar or dissimilar character, installed or located upon such posted
premises or area.



 



   Nothing in this ordinance shall be deemed to prohibit any activity for
the purpose of engaging in any organizational effort on behalf of any labor
union, agents or members thereof, and/or employee groups employed or formerly
employed in any place of business or manufacturing establishment mentioned
herein, or for carrying on the normal activities of labor unions.



 



 



SEC. 56.31.  UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 183,912, Eff. 12/2/15.)



 



   (a)   For purposes of this section:



 



   1.   "Unmanned Aircraft" shall mean an aircraft, including, but not
limited to, an aircraft commonly known as a drone, that is operated without
the possibility of direct human intervention from within or on the aircraft.



 



   2.   "Unmanned Aircraft System" shall mean an Unmanned Aircraft and
associated elements, including, but not limited to, any communication links
and components that control the Unmanned Aircraft.



 



   3.   "Person" shall have the same meaning as set forth in Subsection
(a) of Section 11.01 of this Code.



 



   4.   "Model Aircraft" shall mean an Unmanned Aircraft or Unmanned
Aircraft System operated by any Person strictly for hobby or recreational
purposes.



 



   5.   "Civil UAS" shall mean an Unmanned Aircraft or Unmanned
Aircraft System operated by any Person for any purposes other than strictly
hobby or recreational purposes, including, but not limited to, commercial
purposes or in furtherance of, or incidental to, any business or media
service or agency.



 



   6.   "Public UAS" shall mean an Unmanned Aircraft or Unmanned
Aircraft System operated by any public agency for government related purposes.



 



   (b)   The following shall apply to the operation of any Model
Aircraft within the City of Los Angeles:



 



   1.   No Person shall operate any Model Aircraft within the City of
Los Angeles and within 5 miles of an airport without the prior express
authorization of the airport air traffic control tower.



 



   2.   No Person shall operate any Model Aircraft within the City of
Los Angeles in a manner that interferes with manned aircraft, and shall
always give way to any manned aircraft.



 



   3.   No Person shall operate any Model Aircraft within the City of
Los Angeles beyond the visual line of sight of the person operating the Model
Aircraft.  The operator must use his or her own natural vision (which
includes vision corrected by standard eyeglasses or contact lenses) to
observe the Model Aircraft.  People other than the operator may not be used
in lieu of the operator for maintaining visual line of sight.  Visual line
of sight means that the operator has an unobstructed view of the Model
Aircraft.  The use of vision-enhancing devices, such as binoculars, night
vision goggles, powered vision magnifying devices, and goggles or other
devices designed to provide a "first-person view" from the model, do not
constitute the visual line of sight of the person operating the Model
Aircraft.



 



   4.   No Person shall operate any Model Aircraft within the City of
Los Angeles other than during daylight hours defined as between official
sunrise and official sunset for local time.



 



   5.   No Person shall operate any Model Aircraft within the City of
Los Angeles more than 400 feet above the earth's surface.



 



   6.   Excluding takeoff and landing, no Person shall operate any
Model Aircraft within the City of Los Angeles closer than 25 feet to any
individual, except the operator or the operator's helper(s).



 



   (c)   The following shall apply to the operation of any Model
Aircraft or Civil UAS within the City of Los Angeles:



 



   1.   No Person shall operate any Model Aircraft or Civil UAS within
the City of Los Angeles in a manner that is prohibited by any federal statute
or regulation governing aeronautics.



 



   2.   No Person shall operate any Model Aircraft or Civil UAS within
the City of Los Angeles in violation of any temporary flight restriction
(TFR) or notice to airmen (NOTAM) issued by the Federal Aviation
Administration.



 



   3.   No Person shall operate any Model Aircraft or Civil UAS within
the City of Los Angeles in a careless or reckless manner so as to endanger
the life or property of another.  The standard for what constitutes careless
and reckless operation under this section shall be the same as the standard
set forth in any federal statutes or regulations governing aeronautics
including but not limited to Federal Aviation Rule 91.13.



 



   (d)   It shall be unlawful for any Person to violate or fail to
comply with this section.  Any Person violating the provisions of this
section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to the provisions of
Subsection (m) of Section 11.00 of this Code.



 



   (e)   This section shall not apply to any Public UAS operated
pursuant to, and in compliance with, the terms and conditions of any current
and enforceable authorization granted by the Federal Aviation Administration.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 6.1
PROTECTION OF PEACE AND SECURITY AT MEDICAL FACILITIES



 




(Added by Ord. No. 170,517, Eff. 5/19/95.)




 



 



Section



56.45   Peace and Security Protection.



 



 



SEC. 56.45.  PEACE AND SECURITY PROTECTION.



   (Added by Ord. No. 170,517, Eff. 5/19/95.)



 



   (a)   Definitions.  Notwithstanding any other definitions of the
words defined herein, the words defined herein shall have the following
meanings for the purposes of this ordinance:



 



   (1)   “Appurtenant parking facilities” shall mean any parking
lot or structure that is the primary and posted place for the parking of the
vehicles of  health care providers and members of the public using any
medical facility, including any driveway apron which permits vehicular access
to such parking lot or structure.



 



   (2)   “Client of a medical facility” shall mean any individual
who utilizes or attempts to utilize the services of a medical facility and
who, by reason of such actual or attempted utilization, becomes the focus or
object of any unlawful interference.



 



   (3)   “Congregation” shall mean any assembly, for the purposes
of parading, patrolling or otherwise demonstrating, of three or more
individuals.



 



   (4)   “Connecting pedestrian access” shall mean any sidewalk or
street crosswalk directly connecting a medical facility to its appurtenant
parking facilities.



 



   (5)   “Health care provider” shall mean any individual who owns,
operates, supplies, or is employed at any medical facility, whether on a
permanent, temporary, occasional or incidental basis, including any volunteer
who facilitate the delivery of medical services at the invitation of the
health care providers responsible for operating the medical facility.



 



   (6)   “Medical facility” shall mean any hospital, medical
clinic, medical office or other facility at which lawful, professional
medical services, diagnoses and/or counseling are delivered to members of the
public.



 



   (7)   “Medical services” shall means any and all services
related to the determination, diagnosis, monitoring or treatment of the
medical condition or status of an individual, including, without limitation,
any counseling, referral, diagnostic, laboratory, clinical or surgical
services.



 



   (8)   “Peace or security” shall mean the conditions necessary to
conduct the normal operations of a medical facility, taking into account 
(1)  the effect of activities on ingress and egress readily available to
members of the public seeking medical services,  (2)  any noise, diversion
or disturbance affecting a medical facility, and  (3)  any other effects on
the operations that unreasonably jeopardize the health and safety of the
members of the public seeking medical services.



 



   (9)   “Person” shall mean any individual, organization or
association.



 



   (b)   Prohibition Against Intentional Interference with the Normal
Operations of a Medical Facility.  Any person, acting alone or in concert
with others, who intentionally acts in any manner that threatens or disturbs
the peace or security of any medical facility by threatening to interfere or
actually interfering with  (1)  the normal operations of a medical
facility,  (2)  the lawful activities of a client of a medical facility,
or  (3)  the lawful activities of a health care provider attempting to
provide medical services shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.



 



   Nothing in this subsection shall prohibit any peaceful expressive
conduct, including protesting, picketing, demonstrating, or distributing
pamphlets near a medical facility so long as such conduct does not interfere
with the normal operations of the medical facility.



 



   (c)   Police Authority to Order Dispersal of Violative
Congregation.  The police are hereby authorized to order the immediate
dispersal of any congregation that is directed at, and threatens or violates
the peace or security of, a medical facility.  In determining whether a
congregation threatens or violates the peace or security of the medical
facility, the police shall take into account the effects upon the normal
operations of medical facilities, including, but not limited to,  (1)  the
effect of activities on ingress and egress readily available to members of
the public seeking medical services,  (2)  any noise, diversion or
disturbance affecting a medical facility, and  (3)  any other effects on
the operations that unreasonably jeopardize the health and safety of the
members of the public seeking medical services.



 



   Any order to disperse issued by police pursuant to this subsection
shall include a statement indicating substantially each of the following:



 



   (1)   That the congregation has threatened or violated the peace or
security of a medical facility;



 



   (2)   That the congregation is not protected by the constitutional
right of the people peaceably to assemble in that its actions are unlawful;
and



 



   (3)   That each member of the congregation, and all persons acting
in concert with such congregation, must, under penalty of arrest and
prosecution, immediately disperse and cease to congregate within fifty (50)
feet of  (1)  the medical facility,  (2)  its appurtenant parking
facilities, and  (3)  any connecting pedestrian access, and within four
hours of such order to disperse or before such later time that the police
proclaim to be necessary to protect the peace and security of the medical
facility.



 



   (d)   Failure To Disperse or Subsequently Reassembling Following An
Order From The Police To Disperse.  Any person who is part of any
congregation acting within fifty (50) feet of  (1)  any medical facility, 
(2)  its appurtenant parking facilities, or  (3)  any connecting
pedestrian access who refuses to disperse after having been reasonably
ordered to do so by the police shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.  In
addition, any individual members of that congregation, or any other persons
willfully acting in concert with such congregation, who reassembles within
the same area within four hours of such order or before such later time that
the police proclaim to be necessary to protect the peace and security of the
medical facility, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.



 



   (e)   Prohibition Against Targeted Demonstrations Focused Upon and
At or About a Private Residence.  Any person, acting alone or in concert
with others, who pickets, parades or patrols in a manner that is both  (1) 
focused upon the private residence or dwelling of any individual residing
within the City of Los Angeles, and  (2)  takes place within one hundred
(100) feet of such private residence shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.



 



   Except as specified herein, nothing in this subsection shall prohibit
generally the peaceful picketing or distributing pamphlets, going
door-to-door, alone or in groups, in residential neighborhoods.



 



   (f)   Penalties for Violation; Misdemeanor.  Any person convicted
of willfully violating Subsection (b), (d) or (e) of Section 56.45 of the Los
Angeles Municipal Code is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine not to
exceed $1,000 and/or shall be sentenced to imprisonment in the county jail
for a period not to exceed six months.



 



   (g)   Coexistence with Injunctive Relief for Specific Deprivations
of Protected Rights.  Nothing herein is intended to abridge, circumscribe or
otherwise affect the rights of any person to pray for and obtain injunctive
relief for the deprivation of protected rights.



 



   (h)   Severability of Provisions.  If any severable provision or
provisions of this ordinance or any application thereof is held invalid, that
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of the ordinance
that can be given effect notwithstanding such invalidity.



 



   (i)   Urgency Clause.  The City Council finds and declares that
this ordinance is required for the immediate protection of the public peace,
health and safety.  This ordinance will prevent interferences with the
operations of medical facilities, assure the efficient and expedient delivery
of medical services to persons seeking treatment, and protect the well-being,
tranquillity and privacy of individuals in their personal residences.



 



   This ordinance is necessary to assure the efficient and expedient
delivery of medical services and protect the peace and security of medical
facilities and to safeguard the peace and privacy of individuals’ homes. 
Therefore, this ordinance shall become effective upon publication pursuant to
Section 281 of the Los Angeles City Charter.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 6.5
EMERGENCY TELEPHONE CALLS



 




(Article 6.5, Added by Ord. No. 160,726, Eff. 3/15/86.)




 



 



Section



56.50   Business Telephone Access.



 



 



SEC. 56.50.  BUSINESS TELEPHONE ACCESS.



 



   It is unlawful for a person in charge or control of a business, or for
any employee of that business, to refuse, after a request, to allow a person
to place an emergency call from a telephone located at the business premises,
or to refuse, after request, to place such a call on behalf of said person.



 



   This section shall apply only to the use of a telephone located in a
portion of a business premises open to the public and during hours the
business is open to the public.



 



   For the purposes of this section:



 



   (1)   A request for an emergency call must include a description of
the activity or occurrence constituting the emergency and a statement of
intent or desire that the Fire or Police Department be contacted; and



 



   (2)   An emergency call means a telephone call to either the Los
Angeles City Police Department or to the Los Angeles City Fire Department to
request assistance where facts exist which establish that an activity or
occurrence has caused, is causing, or creates an imminent danger of causing
physical harm or injury to persons or property.



 



 



 



 



ARTICLE 7
FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION (FIRE CODE)



 




(Former Article 7 Repealed and Replaced by Ord. No. 184,913, Eff. 5/30/17.)




 



 




57.101.   General.





57.101.1.   Title.





57.101.2.   Scope.





57.101.3.   Intent.





57.101.5.1.   Validity of Other Laws.





57.101.5.2.   Other Limitations.





57.101.6.   Review of Article.





57.101.7.   Fire Code Advisory Committee.





57.101.8.   Badge Amended.





57.101.8.1.   Use and Wearing of the Badge.





57.101.8.2.   Facsimiles and Counterfeit Badges.





57.101.8.3.   Honorary Badges.





57.101.8.4.   Ownership of Badges and Insignia.





57.101.8.5.   Manufacturer’s Obligation.





57.101.8.6.   Presentation of Badge as a Memorial to Regular Fire
Department Member Killed in the Line of Duty.





57.101.8.6.1.   Prior to the Presentation.





57.101.8.6.1.1.   Removal from the Plaque or Frame.





57.101.9.   Continuing Offenses.











57.102.   Applicability.





57.102.13.   Existing Conditions.











57.103.   Department of Fire Prevention.





57.103.1.1.   Duties of the Chief.





57.103.1.2.   Inspections and Report of Findings.





57.103.1.3.   Signing of Certificates and Notices.





57.103.1.4.   Enforcement of State Fire Marshal Rules and Regulations.





57.103.2.   Appointment.





57.103.3.1.   Office and Duties of the Fire Marshal.





57.103.3.1.1.   Designation of Fire Marshal.





57.103.3.1.2.   Control of Matters.





57.103.3.2.   Bureau of Fire Prevention and Public Safety.





57.103.3.2.1.   Composition of Bureau of Fire Prevention and Public Safety.





57.103.3.2.2.   Function.





57.103.4.2.   Nonresponsibility of City.











57.104.   General Authority and Responsibilities.





57.104.1.1.   Authority to Make Rules.





57.104.1.1.1.   Rule Authorization by the Board.





57.104.1.1.2.   Penalty for Violation of Legally Amended Rules.





57.104.9.2.1.   Authority to Require Tests.





57.104.9.3.   Authority to Approve Alternate Materials or Methods of
Compliance.





57.104.10.2.   Authority to Investigate Fires or Other Emergencies.





57.104.11.1.   Barricades.





57.104.11.4.   Authority at Emergency.





57.104.12.   Authority to Recover Investigative Costs.





57.104.12.1.   Noncompliance Inspection Fees.





57.104.12.1.1.   Noncompliance Fee.





57.104.12.1.2.   Billing of Noncompliance Fee.





57.104.12.1.3.   Procedures for Appeals to the Board of Fire Commissioners.





57.104.13.   Authority to Issue Parking Notices.





57.104.14.   Authority to Recover Costs for Abatement of Nuisances.





57.104.15.   Authority to Take Photographs.





57.104.15.1.   Notice of a Violation.





57.104.15.2.   Subsequent to Emergency.





57.104.16.   Authority of Peace Officers.





57.104.17.   Authority to Grant Variances and Waivers.





57.104.17.1.   Power to Waive.





57.104.17.2.   Application for a Variance or Waiver.





57.104.17.3.   Investigation.





57.104.18.   Authority to Require Fire Safety Officers.





57.104.18.1.   Uniformed Fire Safety Officer.





57.104.18.2.   Certified Fire Safety Officer.





57.104.18.3.   Request.





57.104.19.   Authority to Issue Passes and Credentials.





57.104.19.1.   At the Scene of Emergency.





57.104.19.2.   Abuse of Passes.





57.104.19.3.   Government Officials.





57.104.20.   Authority to Assign Apparatus, Supplies, and Personnel.





57.104.21.   Authority to Request Police Assistance.





57.104.22.   Authority to Issue Copies of Educational Films and Tapes.





57.104.22.1.   Tapes Produced as a Part of the Public Fire Safety
Education Program.





57.104.22.2.   Establishment of Fees.





57.104.22.3.   Moneys Derived from the Sale.





57.104.22.4.   Contracts.











57.105.   Permits.





57.105.1.2.   Types of Permits.





57.105.1.2.1.   Acting Without a Permit Prohibited.





57.105.1.3.1.   Separate Permits Required.





57.105.3.5.1.   Operational Permits – Posting and Keeping.





57.105.3.9.   Operational Permits.





57.105.3.9.1.   Application for Operational Permits.





57.105.3.9.1.1.   Filing.





57.105.3.9.1.2.   Contents of Application.





57.105.3.9.1.2.1.   Permit to Store, Process, or Use Hazardous Materials.





57.105.3.9.1.2.2.   Permit for Assembly Occupancies.





57.105.3.9.2.   Permits – Investigation and Procedure for Granting –
Power to Deny.





57.105.3.9.2.1.   Investigation and Procedure for Granting.





57.105.3.9.2.2.   Power to Deny.





57.105.3.9.3.   Permits – Form.





57.105.3.9.4.   Permits – Transfer.





57.105.3.9.4.1.   Change of Location.





57.105.3.9.5.   Permits – Validity.





57.105.3.9.6.   Permits – Power of Revocation and Suspension.





57.105.3.9.6.1.   By the Chief.





57.105.3.9.6.2.   By the Office of Finance.





57.105.3.9.6.3.   Operation after Revocation or Suspension.





57.105.3.9.7.   Delinquent Fees – Uncollectible.





57.105.3.9.8.   Bonds and in Lieu Deposits for Oil Wells.





57.105.3.9.8.1.   Bonds.





57.105.3.9.8.2.   The Condition of the Bond.





57.105.3.9.8.3.   The Term of Each Such Bond.





57.105.3.9.8.4.   In Lieu of a Surety Bond.





57.105.3.9.8.5.   Extension of Time.





57.105.3.9.8.6.   Power to Authorize Acts.





57.105.5.   Revocation, Suspension, or Denial of Permits, Special Permits,
General Approvals, and Certificates of Fitness.





57.105.5.1.   Power to Revoke, Suspend, or Deny.





57.105.5.1.1.   Agent or Representative.





57.105.5.2.   Notice and Hearing.





57.105.5.3.   Voidance of Permits and Special Permits.





57.105.6.   Required Operational Permits.





57.105.6.1.   Aircraft Fueling Station.





57.105.6.2.   Aircraft Refueler.





57.105.6.3.   Airport Fueling System.





57.105.6.4.   Airport, Private.





57.105.6.5.   Assembly Occupancy.





57.105.6.6.   Atmospheric above Ground Tank.





57.105.6.7.   Bulk Distributing Station.





57.105.6.8.   Central Station Signaling System, Supervising Station.





57.105.6.9.   Church.





57.105.6.10.   Community Care Facility (Serving More than 6 Persons).





57.105.6.11.   Cylinder Filling Plant.





57.105.6.12.   Day Care.





57.105.6.13.   Dry Cleaning Plant.





57.105.6.14.   Hazardous Materials.





57.105.6.15.   Heliport.





57.105.6.16.   Hospital.





57.105.6.17.   Hotel.





57.105.6.18.   Laboratory Using Hazardous Materials.





57.105.6.19.   Marine Oil Terminal.





57.105.6.20.   Marine Service Station.





57.105.6.21.   Natural Gasoline Plant.





57.105.6.22.   Oil Well.





57.105.6.23.   Refinery.





57.105.6.24.   Residential Care Facility.





57.105.6.25.   School.





57.105.6.26.   Service Center for Armed Forces Personnel.   (Original
Fee Only)





57.105.6.27.   Special School.





57.105.6.28.   Surgical Center.





57.105.6.29.   Theater.





57.105.6.30.   Theater, Little.





57.105.6.31.   Theater, Motion Picture.





57.105.6.32.   Carbon Dioxide Enrichment Systems.





57.105.6.33.   Flammable and Combustible Liquids Vehicle.





57.105.6.34.   Flammable and Combustible Liquids Location.





57.105.6.35.   Plant Extraction Systems.





57.105.6.36.   High-piled Combustible Storage.





57.105.7.   Required Specific Action or Project Permits.





57.105.7.1.   Specific Action or Project Permits.





57.105.7.1.1.   Equipment to Be Used in Connection with Hazardous
Materials, Hazardous Waste, or Hazardous Plastics.





57.105.7.1.2.   Add to or Alter.





57.105.7.1.3.   Permit Required to Conduct an Operation.





57.105.7.1.4.   Tent or Membrane Structure.





57.105.7.1.5.   Fire Hydrant on Private Property.





57.105.7.1.6.   Central Station Signaling System.





57.105.7.1.7.   Landing Aircraft Including Helicopters.





57.105.7.1.8.   Live Theater Production.





57.105.7.1.9.   Plant Extraction Systems.





57.105.7.1.10.   Battery Systems.





57.105.7.1.11.   Emergency Responder Radio Coverage System.





57.105.7.1.12.   Gates and Barricades Across Fire Apparatus Access Roads.





57.105.7.2.   Issuance of Permits.





57.105.7.2.1.   Applications.





57.105.7.2.2.   Application Fees.





57.105.7.2.3.   Application to Conduct a Fireworks Display.





57.105.7.3.   Permits – Expiration.





57.105.7.3.1.   Valid for the Period.





57.105.7.4.   Inspection.





57.105.7.4.1.   General Requirements.





57.105.7.4.1.1.   Special Requirements.





57.105.7.4.1.1.1.   Called Inspection.





57.105.7.4.1.1.2.   Final Inspection.





57.105.7.5.   Completion of Work – Final Inspection Tag of Approval.





57.105.7.6.   Authority to Require Exposure of Work.





57.105.7.7.   Fee Exempt Permits.





57.105.7.7.1.   Municipal Entities.





57.105.7.7.2.   Nonprofit.





57.105.7.8.   Fees.





57.105.7.8.1.   Fees Shall Apply To.





57.105.7.8.2.   Additional Plan Check Time.





57.105.7.8.3.   Altering.





57.105.7.8.4.   Additional Section Fees.





57.105.7.8.5.   Blasting Operation.





57.105.7.8.6.   Two or More Items of the Same Classification.





57.105.7.9.   Emergency Inspections.





57.105.7.9.1.   Inspections Not Deemed to Be Emergency Inspections.





57.105.7.10.   Blasting Permits – Insurance Required.





57.105.7.11.   Bonds and In-lieu Deposits for Oil Wells.





57.105.8.   Authority to Issue, Suspend or Revoke Special Permits.





57.105.8.1.   Power to Revoke.





57.105.9.   High-rise Permit General.





57.105.9.1.   Definitions.





57.105.9.2.   Permit Required.





57.105.9.2.1.   Applications for Permit.





57.105.9.2.2.   Investigation.





57.105.9.2.3.   Form.





57.105.9.3.   Authority to Revoke or Suspend.





57.105.9.3.1.   Operation after Revocation or Suspension.





57.105.9.4.   High-rise Permit Fee.





57.105.9.4.1.   Due Dates.





57.105.9.4.2.   Manner of Determining Cost.





57.105.9.4.3.   Manner of Approval of Schedule.





57.105.9.4.4.   Manner of Assessing Fees.





57.105.9.5.   Non-compliance Charge.











57.106.   Inspections.





57.106.5.   Authority to Make Inspections.





57.106.5.1.   Authority to Inspect.





57.106.5.2.   Authority to Require Plans.





57.106.6.   Authority to Inspect.





57.106.6.1.   Occupied Property.





57.106.6.2.   Unoccupied Property.





57.106.6.3.   Reasonable Cause.











57.107.   Maintenance.





57.107.6.   Overcrowding.





57.107.7.   Authority to Install, Test, and Require Maintenance of Fire
Protection Systems and Equipment.





57.107.7.1.   Installation, Alteration, Maintenance, and Repair.





57.107.7.2.   Non Operational.





57.107.7.2.1.   Periodic Inspections and Tests.





57.107.7.3.   Defective Condition.





57.107.7.4.   Penalties and Minimum Fines.











57.109.   Violations.





57.109.3.1.1.   Service of Notices.





57.109.3.1.2.   Posting of Orders.





57.109.4.2.   Violation Penalties.





57.109.5.   Authority to Condemn.





57.109.5.1.   Authority to Prohibit.











57.110.   Unsafe Building.











57.111.   Stop Work Order.











57.112.   Service Utilities.











57.113.   Fees.





57.113.6.   Permit Fees.





57.113.6.1.   Due Dates – New and Renewal.





57.113.6.2.   Collection.





57.113.6.3.   Manner of Determining Cost for Permits.





57.113.6.3.1.   New Schedule.





57.113.6.3.2.   Procedure for Fee Calculation.





57.113.6.4.   Penalty.





57.113.6.5.   Minor Errors in Payment.





57.113.6.6.   Payment or Other Communication Made by Mail.





57.113.6.7.   Fee Exempt Permits.





57.113.6.8.   Charge for Duplicate Permits.





57.113.6.9.   Refunds.





57.113.6.10.   Inspection Right. Office of Finance.











57.114.   Fees for Services Not Requiring a Permit.





57.114.1.   Manner of Determining Cost for Non-permit Services.





57.114.1.1.   Procedure for Fee Calculation.





57.114.1.2.   New Schedule.





57.114.1.3.   Refunds.





57.114.2.   Collection of Fees.











57.115.   Manner of Determining Cost.





57.115.1.   Determining Cost.





57.115.1.1.   Manner of Approval of Schedule.





57.115.1.2.   New Schedule.











57.116.   Fees for Hydrant and Access Review and Inspection.





57.116.1.   Collection of Fees.





57.116.1.1.   Fire Environmental Impact Report Research and Review Fee.





57.116.1.2.   Fire Department Access Plan Review Fee.





57.116.1.3.   Fire Department Access Field Inspection Fee.





57.116.1.4.   Hydrant Plan Review Fee.





57.116.1.5.   Fire Hydrant Field Inspection And/or Test Fee.





57.116.1.6.   Additional Plan Review, Inspection or Re-inspection Fee.





57.116.1.7.   Expedite or Off-hour Fees.











57.117.   Certificates of Fitness.





57.117.1.   Certificates of Fitness Required.





57.117.1.1.   Certificate Required to Conduct Any Blasting Operation.





57.117.1.2.   Certificate Required to Conduct Testing.





57.117.1.3.   Certificate Required to Perform as a Fire Safety Officer.





57.117.1.4.   Certificate Required to Perform as a Health Care Facility
Instructor.





57.117.1.5.   Certificate Required to Perform as a High-rise Life/safety
Service.





57.117.1.6.   Certificate Required to Conduct Testing of Gas Detection
System.





57.117.2.   Certificates of Fitness – Applications.





57.117.2.1.   Information Required.





57.117.2.1.1.   Blasting Operations.





57.117.2.1.2.   Regulation No. 4.





57.117.2.1.3.   Fire Safety Officer.





57.117.2.1.4.   Health Care Facility Instructor.





57.117.2.1.5.   High-rise Life/safety Service.





57.117.3.   Certificates of Fitness – Validity.





57.117.3.1.   Certificates of Fitness – Valid.





57.117.3.2.   Certificates of Fitness – Renewal.





57.117.3.2.1.   Renewal Fee.





57.117.3.2.2.   Granting of a Renewal.





57.117.4.   Certificates of Fitness – Investigation and Examination.





57.117.4.1.   Additional Information.





57.117.4.2.   Issuance.





57.117.5.   Certificates of Fitness – Revocation or Suspension.





57.117.6.   Certificates of Fitness – Change of Address.





57.117.7.   Certificates of Fitness – Form.





57.117.8.   Certificates of Fitness – Duty to Display.





57.117.9.   Certificates of Fitness – Failure of the Examination.





57.117.10.   Fees.





57.117.10.1.   Second Examination.











57.118.   New Construction Plan Review and Inspection.





57.118.1.   General.





57.118.1.1.   Fire/life Safety Review.





57.118.1.2.   Additional Inspection and Re-inspection.





57.118.1.3.   Expedite.





57.118.1.4.   Off-hour, Fire/life Safety Plan Review And/or Inspection.





57.118.2.   Fees.





57.118.2.1.   Fire/life Safety Plan Review Fee.





57.118.2.2.   Inspection and Re-inspection Fee.





57.118.2.3.   Expedite or Off-hour Fire/life Safety Plan Review And/or
Inspection Fee.





57.118.3.   Annual Review.





57.118.3.1.   Review of Fees.





57.118.4.   Surcharge for Development Services Centers.





57.118.4.1.   Development Services Centers.





57.118.4.2.   BuildLA Surcharge.





57.118.4.3.   Stoppage of BuildLA Surcharge.











57.119.   General Approvals.





57.119.1.   General.





57.119.2.   Applications.





57.119.2.1.   Application Fees.





57.119.2.2.   Plans and Specifications.





57.119.3.   General Approvals Where Required.





57.119.3.1.   Exemptions.





57.119.3.2.   Optional.





57.119.3.3.   Record.





57.119.4.   Granting of General Approvals.





57.119.4.1.   Additional Information or Tests.





57.119.4.2.   Approval of the Application.





57.119.5.   L.A.F.D. Label.





57.119.6.   General Approvals – Expiration.





57.119.6.1.   Continued Operation or Use.





57.119.7.   General Approvals – Renewal.





57.119.7.1.   Renewal Fee.





57.119.7.2.   Granting of a Renewal.





57.119.8.   Fees.





57.119.8.1.   General Approval Required.





57.119.8.2.   General Approval Optional.





57.119.8.3.   Charges for Additional Hours.





57.119.8.4.   Fee Exempt General Approvals.





57.119.9.   General Approvals – Revocation or Suspension.











57.120.   Unified Program Facility Permit.





57.120.1.   General.





57.120.1.1.   Hazardous Waste Generators and Hazardous Waste On-site
Treatment Programs.





57.120.1.2.   Above Ground Petroleum Storage Act.





57.120.1.3.   Underground Storage Tank Program.





57.120.1.4.   Hazardous Materials Release Response Plan and Inventory
Program.





57.120.1.5.   California Accidental Release Prevention Program.





57.120.2.   Definitions.





57.120.3.   Permit Required.





57.120.4.   Application for Permits.





57.120.4.1.   Filing.





57.120.4.2.   Contents of Application.





57.120.5.   Permits.





57.120.5.1.   Investigation and Procedures for Granting, Power to Deny.





57.120.5.1.1.   Investigation and Procedure for Granting.





57.120.5.1.2.   Power to Deny.





57.120.5.2.   Permits – Form.





57.120.5.3.   Posting and Keeping.





57.120.5.4.   Permits – Transfer.





57.120.5.4.1.   Change of Location.





57.120.5.5.   Validity.





57.120.6.   Unified Program Facility Permit Schedule of Fees.





57.120.6.1.   Fees Amended.





57.120.6.2.   Schedule of Fees.





57.120.6.2.1.   Verifiable Costs.





57.120.6.2.2.   Upon Adoption of the Schedule.





57.120.6.3.   Failure to Pay.





57.120.6.4.   The Fees Charged to Recover City Costs.





57.120.6.4.1.   Hazardous Waste Generators and Hazardous Waste On-site
Treatment Activities.





57.120.6.4.2.   Underground Storage Tanks.





57.120.6.4.3.   Hazardous Materials Release Response Plan and Inventory
Program.





57.120.6.4.3.1.   Total Volume.





57.120.6.4.3.1.   Physicians, Dentists, Podiatrists, Veterinarians or
Pharmacists.





57.120.6.4.4.   California Accidental Release Prevention Program.





57.120.6.4.5.   Above Ground Petroleum Storage Program.





57.120.6.4.6.   Service Charges.





57.120.7.   Implementation of Title 23.











57.121.   Disclosure of Hazardous Substances.





57.121.1.   Definitions.





57.121.2.   Duty of Each On-site Manager and the Owner of a Business.





57.121.2.1.   Unified Program Facility Permit.





57.121.2.2.   Authorization.





57.121.2.3.   Affect on Other Laws.





57.121.3.   Requirements for Business Plans and Inventories.





57.121.3.1.   Business Plans Shall Include.





57.121.3.1.1.   Inventory.





57.121.3.1.2.   Emergency Response Plans and Procedures.





57.121.3.1.3.   Training.





57.121.3.2.   Requirement to Submit a Hazardous Materials Inventory.





57.121.3.2.1.   Requirement to Submit a Hazardous Materials Inventory.





57.121.3.3.   Notification.





57.121.3.4.   Submission of Business Plan.





57.121.3.5.   Hazardous Materials Business Plan Late Submission Penalty.





57.121.4.   Amendments to the Hazardous Materials Inventory Form.





57.121.5.   Special Inspection.





57.121.6.   Recovery of Costs for Special Inspections.





57.121.7.   Inspection by the Department.





57.121.8.   Permit and Form Requirements.





57.121.9.   Public Disclosure.











57.201.   General.











57.202.   General Definitions.











57.301.   General.





57.301.2.   Permits.











57.302.   Definitions.





57.302.1.   Definitions.











57.303.   Asphalt Kettles.





57.303.8.1.   Roofing Kettles on Trucks.





57.303.8.2.   Street Protection.





57.303.8.3.   Piping to Roof.











57.304.   Combustible Waste Material.





57.304.1.2.   Vegetation.





57.304.1.4.   Removal.





57.304.1.5.   Drifting Waste.





57.304.1.6.   Hazard.





57.304.2.1.   Properly Stored or Disposed.





57.304.2.2.   Approved Storage of Hazardous Refuse and Recycling Materials.





57.304.2.3.   Storing and Disposing Prohibitions.











57.305.   Ignition Sources.





57.305.5.1.   Fires Due to Carelessness or Negligence.





57.305.5.1.1.   Hostile Fire.





57.305.5.1.2.   Fires in Institutional or Residential Occupancies.





57.305.5.1.3.   Fire Regulations Posted.





57.305.5.1.4.   Penalties and Minimum Fines.





57.305.5.2.   Restriction on Use of Certain Metal Cutting Blades.





57.305.5.2.1.   Penalty.











57.306.   Motion Picture Projection Rooms and Film.





57.306.2.1.   Use of Cellulose Nitrate Film.











57.307.   Open Burning, Recreational Fires and Portable Outdoor Fireplaces.





57.307.2.   Permit Required.





57.307.6.   Outdoor Burning Requirements.





57.307.6.1.   Outdoor Burning Devices.





57.307.6.2.   Location of Outdoor Burning Devices.





57.307.7.   Exercise of Caution with Fire.











57.308.   Open Flames.





57.308.2.1.   Special Permit.





57.308.6.   Hazardous Atmosphere.





57.308.7.   Flame Throwers.





57.308.7.1.   Sale of Flame Throwers.





57.308.7.2.   Throwing Flammable Material.





57.308.7.3.   Artisan Use of Flame Producing Devices.











57.309.   Powered Industrial Trucks and Equipment.





57.309.7.   Sources of Ignition.











57.310.   Smoking.





57.310.9.   Designation of Smoking Areas.











57.311.   Vacant Premises.





57.311.1.3.   Penalties and Minimum Fines.





57.311.2.4.   Penalties and Minimum Fines.





57.311.3.1.   Penalties and Minimum Fines.





57.311.4.1.   Penalties and Minimum Fines.











57.312.   Vehicle Impact Protection.











57.313.   Fueled Equipment.





57.313.3.   Exhaust Protection for Internal Combustion Engines.





57.313.3.1.   Spark Arrestors.





57.313.3.2.   Exhaust System Maintenance.











57.314.   Indoor Displays.





57.314.4.1.   Special Permit.











57.315.   General Storage.





57.315.3.5.   Area Divisions.





57.315.3.6.   Area Separations.





57.315.3.7.   Height Limitations.





57.315.3.7.1.   Shelving or Racks.





57.315.3.7.2.   Ratio to the Width.





57.315.3.7.3.   Wood Pallets And/or Non-expanded Polyethylene Solid Deck
Pallets.





57.315.3.8.   Clearance from Exposures.





57.315.3.8.1.   Stored Materials and Lighting Fixtures.





57.315.3.8.2.   Materials Which May Swell or Expand.





57.315.3.8.3.   Materials Susceptible to Water Damage.





57.315.3.8.4.   Drainage of Floor.





57.315.3.9.   Material-handling Equipment.





57.315.3.10.   Related Activities.





57.315.3.11.   Aisle Maintenance.





57.315.3.12.   Storage Area Prohibitions.





57.315.3.12.1.   Storage on Roofs.





57.315.3.12.2.   Prohibited Storage.





57.315.3.12.3.   Space under Stairways.





57.315.3.12.4.   Spontaneous Heating.





57.315.3.12.5.   Incompatible Materials.





57.315.3.12.6.   Basement Storage.





57.315.4.3.   Yards.





57.315.4.4.   Single Storage Areas.





57.315.4.5.   Drainage.





57.315.4.6.   Maintenance and Housekeeping.











57.316.   Hazards to Fire Fighters.





57.316.4.1.   Building Roofs.





57.316.4.2.   Obstructions.





57.316.4.2.1.   Penalties and Minimum Fines.





57.316.4.3.   Storage on Roofs.





57.316.4.4.   Passageways on Roofs.











57.317.   Rooftop Gardens and Landscaped Roofs.











57.318.   Laundry Carts.











57.319.   Road Tunnels, Bridges, and Other Limited Access Highways [SFM].











57.320.   Asbestos Abatement.





57.320.1.   Scope.





57.320.2.   Definitions.





57.320.3.   Inspections.





57.320.4.   Permits Required.





57.320.4.1.   License Required.





57.320.4.2.   Duration of Permit.





57.320.4.3.   Collection of Fee.





57.320.4.4.   Plans Required.





57.320.4.5.   Permits Obtained.





57.320.4.6.   Fees.





57.320.5.   Notification and Maintenance of Information.





57.320.5.1.   SCAQMD Rule 1403 Notification Form.





57.320.5.2.   Completion of Permitted Work.





57.320.5.3.   Maintenance of Plans.





57.320.5.3.1.   Emergency Information.





57.320.5.3.1.1.   Introduction Page.





57.320.6.   Fire Retardant / non Combustible Materials.





57.320.7.   Exits.





57.320.7.1.   Minimum Exits.





57.320.7.2.   Obstruction of Exit.





57.320.7.3.   Non-contaminated Area.





57.320.8.   Allowable Locations.





57.320.8.1.   Multistory Buildings.





57.320.8.2.   Single-story Buildings.





57.320.8.3.   Unoccupied Buildings.





57.320.9.   Signage.





57.320.9.1.   Multistory Buildings.





57.320.9.1.1.   Fire Control Room/fire Command Center.





57.320.9.1.1.1.   Floors Involved.





57.320.9.1.2.   No Fire Control Room/fire Command Center.





57.320.9.1.3.   Stairway Landings.





57.320.9.2.   Single-story Buildings.





57.320.9.2.1.   Fire Control Room/fire Command Center.





57.320.9.2.2.   No Fire Control Room.





57.320.10.   Fire Protection Equipment.





57.320.10.1.   Extinguishers.





57.320.10.1.1.   Signage.





57.320.10.2.   Fire Suppression Systems.





57.320.10.3.   Fire Detection and Signaling Systems.





57.320.10.3.1.   Manual Fire Alarm Boxes, Communication Jacks, and
Signaling Systems.





57.320.10.3.2.   Systems Disconnected.





57.320.10.3.3.   Fire-rated Partitions, Doors.





57.320.10.3.4.   Elevator Smoke Detector.





57.320.11.   Communications.





57.320.11.1.   Telephone Required.





57.320.11.1.1.   Alternative Locations.





57.320.11.1.2.   In Lieu of a Telephone.





57.320.11.1.3.   Alternate Means of Communication.





57.320.12.   Emergency Protective Equipment.





57.320.12.1.   Protective Entry Suits.





57.320.12.1.1.   Suits Requirement.





57.320.13.   Viewing Ports.





57.320.13.1.   Viewing Port Size.





57.320.14.   Emergency Shutdown of Negative Air Equipment.





57.320.14.1.   Emergency Shutdown.





57.320.14.2.   Temporary Power.





57.320.15.   Rubbish and Debris.





57.320.16.   Respray of Fire Protective Coatings.





57.320.17.   Fire Safety Coordinator.





57.320.18.   Fire Safety Watch.





57.320.18.1.   Log.





57.320.18.1.1.   Information Contained in the Log.





57.320.18.2.   Absence of Approved Automatic Fire Detection System.





57.320.18.3.   Duration.





57.320.18.4.   Fire Watch Discontinued.





57.320.18.5.   Open Flame.





57.320.19.   Smoking.











57.321.   Parade Floats.





57.321.1.   General.











57.322.   Specific Requirements for Hazardous Vegetation.





57.322.1.   General Brush Clearance.





57.322.1.1.   Specific Requirements.





57.322.1.1.1.   Vegetation Within 100 Feet of Buildings.





57.322.1.1.2.   Trees Within 100 Feet of Buildings.





57.322.1.1.3.   Chimney Clearance.





57.322.1.1.4.   Overhanging Branches.





57.322.1.1.5.   Roof Maintenance.





57.322.1.1.6.   Road and Fence Clearance.





57.322.1.1.7.   Second 100-foot Modification.





57.322.1.1.8.   Landscape Vegetation.





57.322.1.1.9.   Greater Fire Protection Measures.





57.322.1.1.10.   Additional Brush Clearance Requirements.





57.322.1.1.10.1.   Penalty.





57.322.2.   Inspection and Fees.





57.322.2.1.   Public Nuisance.





57.322.2.1.1.   Notice to Owner.





57.322.2.1.2.   City Abatement of Nuisance.





57.322.2.1.3.   Report of Nuisance Abatement.





57.322.2.1.4.   Public Hearing Request.





57.322.2.1.4.1.   Written Objections.





57.322.2.1.4.2.   Hearing Procedures.





57.322.2.1.4.3.   Hearing Report Preparation.





57.322.2.1.4.3.1.   Contested Assessment Review by City Council.





57.322.2.1.4.3.2.   Final Decision.











57.323.   Matches





57.323.1.   General.





57.323.2.   Packaging and Labeling.





57.323.3.   General Storage Requirements.





57.323.3.1.   Wholesale Storage.





57.323.3.2.   Mixed Storage.





57.323.4.   Prohibited Types.





57.323.5.   Fire Protection.











57.324.   General Duties of Persons.





57.324.1.   Fire Spread.





57.324.2.   Duties When a Fire Occurs.





57.324.3.   Notifications.





57.324.4.   Hazardous Release.





57.324.5.   Transfer under Permit.





57.324.6.   Fire Alarm Notification.











57.325.   General Provisions for Correction of Hazards.





57.325.1.   Correction of Hazardous Conditions.





57.325.2.   Notice.











57.401.   General.











57.402.   Definitions.





57.402.1.   Definitions.











57.403.   Emergency Preparedness Requirements.





57.403.1.   Reserved.





57.403.2.   Announcements of Exits and Posting of Exit Plans in Group a
Occupancies.





57.403.2.2.   Announcements.





57.403.2.5.   Exit Locations.





57.403.2.6.   Posting of an Emergency Exit Plan.





57.403.3.   Reserved.





57.403.4.   Reserved.





57.403.5.   Reserved.





57.403.6.   Reserved.





57.403.7.   Reserved.





57.403.8.   Reserved.





57.403.9.   Reserved.





57.403.10.   Reserved.





57.403.11.   Reserved.











57.404.   Fire Safety and Evacuation Plans.





57.404.1.   Reserved.





57.404.2.   Reserved.





57.404.2.1.   Reserved.





57.404.2.2.   Reserved.





57.404.2.3.2.   Training Frequency.





57.404.2.3.2.1.   Emergency Lockdown Training.





57.404.3.   Reserved.





57.404.4.   Reserved.











57.405.   Emergency Evacuation Drills.











57.406.   Employee Training and Response Training.





57.406.1.   Reserved.





57.406.2.   Reserved.





57.406.3.   Reserved.











57.407.   Hazard Communication.











57.408.   Emergency Planning and Evacuation Requirements for High-rise
Buildings.





57.408.1.   Requirements for High-rise Buildings.





57.408.2.   Creation and Filing of Emergency Plan.





57.408.2.1.   Submission of Plans.





57.408.2.3.   Emergency Plan Availability.





57.408.2.4.   Hotel Guest Exemption.





57.408.3.   Fire Department Approval Required.





57.408.4.   Building Inventory Form.





57.408.5.   Required Designated Personnel.





57.408.5.1.   Fire Safety Director.





57.408.5.1.   Responsibility for Fire Safety Director.





57.408.5.1.1.   Fire Safety Director Responsibility for Emergency Plan.





57.408.5.1.2.   Fire Safety Director Responsibility for Security Personnel.





57.408.5.1.3.   Fire Safety Director Responsibility for Renewal of Their
Certificate.





57.408.5.1.4.   Responsibility for Payment of the Fees.





57.408.5.2.   Floor Wardens.





57.408.5.3.   Private First Responders.





57.408.5.4.   Essential Building Personnel.





57.408.6.   Required Designated Personnel – On-site Presence.





57.408.7.   Emergency Response Duties of Designated Personnel.





57.408.7.1.   Minimum Duties.





57.408.7.1.1.   The Fire Safety Director or Assistant Fire Safety Director.





57.408.7.1.2.   Floor Wardens.





57.408.7.1.3.   Private First Responders.





57.408.7.1.4.   Essential Building Personnel.





57.408.8.   Emergency Plan - Minimum Requirements.





57.408.8.1.   Procedures.





57.408.8.2.   Evacuation Roles and Duties.





57.408.8.3.   Signs.





57.408.8.4.   Emergency Assistance Center.





57.408.8.5.   Special Needs Requirements.





57.408.8.6.   Occupant Instruction and Training.





57.408.8.7.   Emergency Evacuation Plans, Signs, and Procedures.





57.408.8.8.   Filing of the Emergency Plan.





57.408.9.   Fire Drills.





57.408.9.1.   Commercial High-rise Buildings less than 35 Stories in
Height.





57.408.9.1.1.   Mandatory Drill.





57.408.9.1.2.   During the Annual Fire Drill.





57.408.9.2.   Commercial High-rise Buildings, 35 or More Stories in Height.





57.408.9.2.1.   Mandatory Drill.





57.408.9.2.2.   During the Annual Fire Drill.





57.408.9.2.3.   Total Building Evacuation.





57.408.9.3.   Residential High-rise Buildings.





57.408.9.3.1.   Mandatory Drill.





57.408.9.3.2.   During the Annual Fire Drill.





57.408.9.4.   Buildings That Have Stair Shaft Doors Locked.





57.408.9.5.   Coordination of Total Building Evacuation.





57.408.9.6.   Documentation of All Fire Drills.





57.408.10.   Fees.





57.408.10.1.1.   Responsibility for Fees.





57.408.10.2.   Due Dates.





57.408.10.2.1.   Initial Payment.





57.408.10.2.2.   Annual Renewal.





57.408.10.2.3.   Total Building Evacuation Payment.





57.408.10.2.4.   Delinquency.





57.408.10.3.   Computation-manner of Determining Cost.





57.408.10.4.   Manner of Assessing Fees.





57.408.11.   Violations.





57.408.11.1.   Penalties and Minimum Fines.











57.501.   General.





57.501.1.1.   Los Angeles City Scope.











57.502.   Definitions.





57.502.1.   Definitions.











57.503.   Fire Apparatus Access Roads.





57.503.1.4.   Building Structure More than 150 Feet from the Edge of the
Roadway.





57.503.1.5.   Dead-end in Access.





57.503.1.6.   Easements.





57.503.4.2.   Fire Lane Maintenance.





57.503.4.3.   Obstructions on Fire Roads and Firebreaks.





57.503.5.3.   Tampering with Established Locks or Barriers.











57.504.   Access to Building Openings and Roofs.











































































































































































































































































































































































































57.608.   Stationary Storage Battery Systems.











57.609.   Commercial Kitchen Hoods.











57.610.   Commercial Kitchen Cooking Oil Storage.











57.701.   General.











57.702.   Definitions.



































57.703.2.7.   Penalties and Minimum Fines.











57.704.   Floor Openings and Shafts.











57.705.   Exterior Walls.









































57.801.2.2.2.   Prohibited Sell, Rent, Lease, or Give Away of Wearing
Apparel.











57.802.   Definitions.











57.803.   Interior Wall and Ceiling Finish and Trim in Existing Buildings.











57.804.   Interior Wall and Ceiling Trim in New and Existing Buildings.











57.805.   Upholstered Furniture and Mattresses in New and Existing
Buildings.



























































57.806.1.5.   Christmas Tree Sales.



















































































57.807.6.   Reserved.











57.808.   Furnishing Other than Upholstered Furniture and Mattresses or
Decorative Materials in New and Existing Buildings.









































57.901.8.4.   Penalties and Minimum Fines.











57.902.   Definitions.











































































































57.903.5.5.   Penalties and Minimum Fines.























57.904.1.3.   Use Prior to Final Inspection.

















57.905.2.1.   Standpipe Hose Outlets.







































































57.906.2.8.   Penalties and Minimum Fines.

















































































































57.907.8.6.1.   Penalties and Minimum Fines.











57.908.   Emergency Alarm Systems.











57.909.   Smoke Control Systems.











57.910.   Smoke and Heat Removal.











57.911.   Explosion Control.











57.912.   Fire Department Connections.











57.913.   Fire Pumps.











57.914.   Fire Protection Based on Special Detailed Requirements of Use
and Occupancy.











57.915.   Carbon Monoxide Detection















































































































































57.917.11.   Inspection, Testing and Sensor Calibration.











57.1001.   Administration.











57.1002.   Definitions.











57.1003.   General Means of Egress.



















































































57.1004.8.   Exits.











57.1005.   Means of Egress Sizing.











57.1006.   Number of Exits and Exit Access Doorways.











57.1007.   Exit and Exit Access Doorway Configuration.

















57.1008.4.   Penalties and Minimum Fines.











57.1009.   Accessible Means of Egress



































57.1010.1.12.   Penalties and Minimum Fines.











57.1011.   Stairways.











57.1012.   Ramps.























57.1013.1.1.1.   Penalties and Minimum Fines.











57.1014.   Handrails.











57.1015.   Guards.











57.1016.   Exit Access.











57.1017.   Exit Access Travel Distance.











57.1018.   Aisles.











57.1019.   Exit Access Stairways and Ramps.











57.1020.   Corridors.











57.1021.   Egress Balconies.











57.1022.   Exits.























57.1023.9.3.   Penalties and Minimum Fines.











57.1024.   Exit Passageways.











57.1025.   Luminous Egress Path Markings.











57.1026.   Horizontal Exits.











57.1027.   Exterior Exit Stairways and Ramps.











57.1028.   Exit Discharge.























57.1029.12.1.3.   Spacing of Tables.











57.1030.   Emergency Escape and Rescue.









































57.1031.3.5.   Penalties and Minimum Fines.











57.1101.   General.











57.1102.   Definitions.











57.1103.   Fire Safety Requirements for Existing Buildings.









































57.1104.16.9.   Penalties and Minimum Fines.











57.1105.   Reserved.











57.1106.   Requirements for Outdoor Operations.











57.1107.   Group a Public Address System.











57.1113.   Existing Group R-1 and R-2 Occupancies [SFM].











57.1114.   Existing High-rise Buildings [SFM].











57.1115.   Existing Group I Occupancies [SFM].























[Chapters 12 - 19 Reserved]























57.2001.3.1.   Permits Required.











57.2002.   Definitions.



































57.2003.9.   Pesticides.





















































57.2004.8.6.   Warning Signs.











57.2005.   Portable Fire Extinguishers.











57.2006.   Aircraft Fueling.











57.2007.   Helistops and Heliports.











57.2101.   General.











57.2102.   Definitions.











57.2103.   Classifications.











57.2104.   General Requirements.











57.2105.   Operating Requirements.











57.2106.   Spotting and Pretreating.











57.2107.   Dry Cleaning Systems.











57.2108.   Fire Protection.











57.2201.   General.











57.2202.   Definitions.





























57.2203.3.   Dust Collection Systems for Rooms or Buildings.











57.2204.   Explosion Protection.











57.2301.   General.











57.2302.   Definitions.











57.2303.   Location of Dispensing Devices.











57.2304.   Dispensing Operations.

















57.2305.8.   Transfer Between Tanks.











57.2306.   Flammable and Combustible Liquid Motor Fuel-dispensing
Facilities.

















57.2307.9.   Filling of Mobile Fuel Tanks.











57.2308.   Compressed Natural Gas Motor Fuel-dispensing Facilities.











57.2309.   Hydrogen Motor Fuel-dispensing and Generation Facilities.

















57.2310.6.1.1.   Standpipes Required Intervals.











57.2311.   Repair Garages.

















57.2401.3.1.   Special Permit.











57.2402.   Definitions.





























57.2403.4.5.   Repair.

































































57.2404.7.9.6.   Duct Velocity.























57.2405.12.   Protection of Floors.











57.2406.   Power Coating.











57.2407.   Electrostatic Apparatus.











57.2408.   Organic Peroxides and Dual-component Coatings.











57.2409.   Indoor Manufacturing of Reinforced Plastics.











57.2410.   Floor Surfacing and Finishing Operations.











57.2501.   General.











57.2601.   General.























57.2603.3.7.   Fire Department Notification.











57.2701.   General.











57.2702.   Definitions.











57.2703.   General Safety Provisions.











57.2704.   Storage.











57.2705.   Use and Handling.











57.2801.   General.











57.2802.   Definitions.

















57.2803.8.   Yard Storage.











57.2804.   Fire Protection.











57.2805.   Plywood, Veneer and Composite Board Mills.











57.2806.   Log Storage Areas.











57.2807.   Storage of Wood Chips and Hogged Material Associated with
Timber and Lumber Production Facilities.











57.2808.   Storage and Processing of Wood Chips, Hogged Material, Fines,
Compost and Raw Product Associated with Yard Waste and Recycling Facilities.











57.2809.   Exterior Storage of Finished Lumber Products.











57.2901.   General.











57.2902.   Definitions.











57.2903.   General Precautions.











57.2904.   Electrical Equipment and Protection.











57.2905.   Process Structures.











57.2906.   Process Mills and Kettles.











57.2907.   Process Piping.











57.2908.   Raw Materials in Process Areas.











57.2909.   Raw Materials and Finished Products.











57.3001.   General.











57.3002.   Definitions.











57.3003.   Location.











57.3004.   Fuel Piping.











57.3005.   Interlocks.











57.3006.   Fire Protection.











57.3007.   Operation and Maintenance.











57.3101.   General.











57.3102.   Definitions.











57.3103.   Temporary Tents and Membrane Structures.























57.3104.20.3.   Fire Safety Officer.











57.3105.   Temporary Stage Canopies.











57.3201.   General.











57.3202.   Definitions.











57.3203.   Commodity Classification.











57.3204.   Designation of High-piled Storage Areas.











57.3205.   Housekeeping and Maintenance.











57.3206.   General Fire Protection and Life Safety Features.











57.3207.   Solid-piled and Shelf Storage.











57.3208.   Rack Storage.











57.3209.   Automated Storage.











57.3210.   Specialty Storage.











57.3301.   General.











57.3302.   Definitions.











57.3303.   Temporary Heating Equipment.











57.3304.   Precautions Against Fire.











57.3305.   Flammable and Combustible Liquids.











57.3306.   Flammable Gases.











57.3307.   Explosive Materials.











57.3308.   Owner’s Responsibility for Fire Protection.











57.3309.   Fire Reporting.











57.3310.   Access for Fire Fighting.











57.3312.   Water Supply for Fire Protection.











57.3313.   Standpipes.











57.3314.   Automatic Sprinkler System.











57.3315.   Portable Fire Extinguishers.











57.3316.   Motorized Construction Equipment.











57.3317.   Safeguarding Roofing Operations.











57.3401.   General.











57.3402.   Definitions.











57.3403.   Tire Rebuilding.











57.3404.   Precautions Against Fire.











57.3405.   Outdoor Storage.











57.3406.   Fire Department Access.











57.3407.   Fencing.











57.3408.   Fire Protection.











57.3409.   Indoor Storage Arrangement.

















57.3501.2.   Permits.











57.3502.   Definitions.











57.3503.   General Requirements.











57.3504.   Fire Safety Requirements.











57.3505.   Gas Welding and Cutting.











57.3506.   Electric Arc Hot Work.











57.3507.   Calcium Carbide Systems.











57.3508.   Acetylene Generators.











57.3509.   Piping Manifolds and Hose Systems for Fuel Gases and Oxygen.











57.3510.   Hot Work on Flammable and Combustible Liquid Storage Tanks.











57.3601.   Scope.











57.3602.   Definitions.











57.3603.   General Precautions.











57.3604.   Fire Protection Equipment.











57.3605.   Marine Motor Fuel-dispensing Facilities.











57.3701.   General.











57.3702.   Definitions.

















57.3703.8.   Automotive Equipment.











57.3704.   Loose Fiber Storage.





























































































































































































































[Chapters 39 - 46 Reserved]





























































































































57.4701.10.   Standing Concert Attendance Not in Structures.















































57.4702.5.   Daycare Facility Fire Clearance Pre-inspection.











































































































57.4703.7.2.   Final Clearance.



























































































































































































































































57.4704.10.2.   Fire Hazard.























































































































57.4705.6.   Standby Power for Window Washing Equipment.











57.4801.   General.











57.4802.   Occupancy Classification.











57.4803.   Required Permits.











57.4804.   General Requirements.











57.4805.   Fire-extinguishing Systems.











57.4806.   Fire Detection Equipment.











57.4807.   Fire Safety Officers.











57.4808.   Electrical Requirements.











57.4809.   Mechanical Equipment.











57.4810.   Design Requirements.

















57.4811.1.1.   Motion Picture Locations – Television Remotes.











57.4901.   General.











57.4902.   Definitions.











57.4903.   Reserved.











57.4904.   Fire Hazard Severity Zones.











57.4905.   Wildfire Protection Building Construction.











57.4906.   Hazardous Vegetation and Fuel Management.











57.4907.   Defensible Space.























































































































57.4908.9.1.   Defacing Signs.

















57.5001.5.   Permits.

















57.5002.1.1.























































































































































































































57.5003.15.2.   Transfer Hoses.











57.5004.   Storage.

















57.5005.1.12.   Filling or Transferring Hazardous Materials in Portable
Containers.











57.5101.   General.











57.5102.   Definitions.











57.5103.   Classification of Aerosol Products.











57.5104.   Inside Storage of Aerosol Products.











57.5105.   Outside Storage.











57.5106.   Retail Display.























[Chapter 52 Reserved]























57.5301.2.1.   Design and Installation Permit Required.











57.5302.   Definitions.











57.5303.   General Requirements.











57.5304.   Storage of Compressed Gases.











57.5305.   Use and Handling of Compressed Gases.











57.5306.   Medical Gas Systems.











) Systems Used in Beverage Dispensing Applications.











57.5308.   Compressed Gases Not Otherwise Regulated.

















57.5401.2.   Permits.











57.5402.   Definitions.







































































57.5403.9.   Tank Cars.























57.5404.4.   Tank Storage.

















57.5405.3.   Working Supply.











57.5501.   General.











57.5502.   Definitions.











57.5503.   General Requirements.











57.5504.   Storage.











57.5505.   Use and Handling.









































57.5601.12.1.   Posting.











57.5602.   Definitions.











57.5603   Recordkeeping and Reporting.















































































































































































































































































































































































































































57.5604.13.9.2.5.   Other Materials.





















































57.5605.10.2.4.   Special Requirements.







































































57.5606.6.4.   Approval.





































































































































































































57.5607.16.5.1.   Notification to Department of Detonation Time.









































57.5608.1.2.2.   Fireworks Display – Additional Requirement.



































57.5609.3.2.   Storage in Explosive Rooms.











57.5610.   Experimental Rockets/unlimited.











57.5611.   Model Rockets.











57.5612.   Experimental High Power Rockets and Motors.











57.5613.   Emergency Signaling Devices.











57.5701.   General.











57.5702.   Definitions.





























57.5703.9.   Other Emergency Features.





























57.5704.5.   Separation of Storage.























57.5705.6.1.   Safety Cans.









































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































57.5707.6.3.   Spill Reporting.











57.5801.   General.











57.5802.   Definitions.











57.5803.   General Requirements.











57.5804.   Storage.











57.5805.   Use.











57.5806.   Flammable Cryogenic Fluids.











57.5807.   Metal Hydride Systems.











57.5808.   Hydrogen Fuel Gas Rooms.











57.5901.   General.

















57.5902.1.   Definitions.











57.5903.   General Requirements.











57.5904.   Storage.











57.5905.   Use.











57.5906.   Magnesium.

















57.5907.1.   General Storage Requirements.











57.6001.   General.











57.6002.   Definitions.











57.6003.   Highly Toxic and Toxic Solids and Liquids.











57.6004.   Highly Toxic and Toxic Compressed Gases.











57.6005.   Ozone Gas Generators.

















57.6101.2.1.   Filling Without Permits.











57.6102.   Definitions.











57.6103.   Installation of Equipment.











57.6104.   Location of LP-Gas Containers.











57.6105.   Prohibited Use of LP-Gas.





























57.6106.6.   Attendance During Transfer Operations.











57.6107.   Safety Precautions and Devices.











57.6108.   Fire Protection.











57.6109.   Storage of Portable LP-Gas Containers Awaiting Use or Resale.











57.6110.   LP-Gas Containers Not in Service.











57.6111.   Parking and Garaging of LP-Gas Tank Vehicles.



































57.6112.4.   Remote Control Switch.











57.6201.   General.











57.6202.   Definitions.

















57.6203.3.   General Requirements.





























57.6204.1.14.   Refrigerators and Freezers.

















57.6205.2.   Handling and Use of Organic Peroxides.











57.6301.   General.











57.6302.   Definitions.











57.6303.   General Requirements.











57.6304.   Storage.











57.6305.   Use.











57.6306.   Liquid Oxygen in Home Health Care.

















57.6401.3.   General Storage Requirements.











57.6402.   Definitions.











57.6403.   General Requirements.











57.6404.   Storage.











57.6405.   Use.











57.6501.   General.











57.6502.   Definitions.











57.6503.   General Requirements.











57.6504.   Storage and Handling.











57.6601.   General.











57.6602.   Definitions.



































57.6603.4.2.   Polymerization.











57.6604.   Storage.











57.6605.   Use.











57.6701.   General.











57.6702.   Definitions.











57.6703.   General Requirements.

















57.6704.3.   Container Covers.























[Chapters 68 - 79 Reserved]






















































































































































































































































































































































 SEC. 57.101.  GENERAL.



 



   Chapter 1 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted by
reference with the following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.101.1.  TITLE.



 



   This article, which is a portion of the “Los Angeles Municipal
Code,” shall be known as the “Los Angeles Fire Code,” and whenever the
word “Code” is used in this article, it shall mean the Los Angeles Fire
Code.



 



   The Los Angeles Fire Code adopts by reference portions of the 2016 CFC
and the 2015 International Fire Code (IFC).



 



 



SEC. 57.101.2.  [SCOPE.]



 



   6.   Such other laws as it may be the duty of the Fire Department to
enforce.



 



 



SEC. 57.101.3.  INTENT.



 



   The purpose of this Code is to establish the minimum requirements
consistent with nationally recognized good practice for providing a
reasonable level of life safety and property protection from the hazards of
fire, explosion, panic, or dangerous conditions in new and existing
buildings, structures and premises; and to provide a reasonable level of
safety to fire fighters and emergency responders during emergency operations.



 



 



SEC. 57.101.5.1.  VALIDITY OF OTHER LAWS.



 



   Nothing in this article shall be construed to prevent the enforcement
of other laws which prescribe more restrictive limitations.



 



 



SEC. 57.101.5.2.  OTHER LIMITATIONS.



 



   The permissive provisions of this article shall not be presumed to
waive any limitations imposed by any other laws.



 



 



SEC. 57.101.6.  REVIEW OF ARTICLE.



 



   The Chief shall report to the Board from time to time as necessary,
recommending revisions of this article.  Such recommendations may be based
upon, but not limited to, studies of the following:



 



   1.   Number of requests for variances.



 



   2.   Number of fire hazards reported or determined by inspections.



 



   3.   Changes and technological advancements of methods, materials,
and processes.



 



   4.   Investigation of fires.



 



   5.   Recommendations of the Fire Code Advisory Committee.



 



 



SEC. 57.101.7.  FIRE CODE ADVISORY COMMITTEE.



 



   The Chief shall establish a Fire Code Advisory Committee which shall
consist of: the Fire Marshal, who shall serve as chairperson; and
representatives from industry, business, and other governmental agencies as
may be determined from time to time by the Chief.  The purpose of the Fire
Code Advisory Committee shall be to assist the Chief in any revision of this
article by submitting recommendations.



 



 



SEC. 57.101.8.  BADGE AMENDED.



 



   The official badge of the Los Angeles Fire Department is hereby
established as that badge amended by the Board by Resolution No. 189, on June
12, 1941; provided, however, that for the period of January 1, 1986, through
and including December 31, 1986, the official badge of the Los Angeles Fire
Department shall be that badge amended by Resolution No. 759 on November 21,
1985, by the Board as the Centennial Badge of the Los Angeles Fire Department.



 



 



SEC. 57.101.8.1.  USE AND WEARING OF THE BADGE.



 



   It shall be unlawful for any person to wear, display, or have in his or
her possession any such badge unless that person is a member of the Fire
Department, employed to perform the duty of extinguishing or preventing or
investigating fires, or providing an emergency ambulance service.  The
members of the Board, while actively serving as such under valid appointment,
are members of the Fire Department within the meaning of this section.



 



   EXCEPTION:  The Board may adopt a design of badge, upon which the word
“RETIRED” shall clearly appear, which may be worn by members of the
Department who have been honorably retired from active duty by reason of
length of service or physical disability.



 



 



SEC. 57.101.8.2.  FACSIMILES AND COUNTERFEIT BADGES.



 



   No person who is not a regular member of the Fire Department shall
wear, display, or have in his or her possession any official badge or one
which resembles or may be mistaken for the official badge, or which is
calculated to indicate that he or she is a member of the Fire Department.



 



 



SEC. 57.101.8.3.  HONORARY BADGES.



 



   No official badge, or badge of any design indicating a connection with
the Los Angeles Fire Department shall be issued to any person as an
honorarium.



 



 



SEC. 57.101.8.4.  OWNERSHIP OF BADGES AND INSIGNIA.



 



   All badges and uniform insignia shall remain the property of the
City.  Every person receiving such property shall be required to personally
sign a receipt therefor, and the receipt shall set forth an agreement to
reimburse the City in the event of loss for the standard cost price as
determined from time to time by the Board.



 



 



SEC. 57.101.8.5.  MANUFACTURER’S OBLIGATION.



 



   No person shall manufacture, make, sell, design, or transfer any
official Fire Department badge except upon the official order of the Fire
Department’s custodian of badges.  The manufacturer shall deliver
manufactured badges only to said custodian and may manufacture only the
number of badges authorized by that person.  Nothing herein shall be
considered as affecting the manner in which contracts for the purchase of
badges by the City shall be awarded as provided in the City Charter.



 



 



SEC. 57.101.8.6.  PRESENTATION OF BADGE AS A MEMORIAL TO REGULAR FIRE
DEPARTMENT MEMBER KILLED IN THE LINE OF DUTY.



 



   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this article, the Board of Fire
Commissioners may:



 



   1.   Cause a member’s badge and number to be retired from active
service and use.



 



   2.   Cause the badge, or a similar badge, to be presented to the
deceased member’s surviving spouse, child, or person in the member’s
immediate family as a memorial honoring the member.



 



 



SEC. 57.101.8.6.1.  PRIOR TO THE PRESENTATION.



 



   Prior to the presentation, the Board shall cause the badge to be
affixed permanently to a plaque or within a frame, which will effectively
preclude improper use of the badge, with a statement clearly visible showing
the member’s death in the line of duty.



 



 



SEC. 57.101.8.6.1.1.  REMOVAL FROM THE PLAQUE OR FRAME.



 



   No person shall remove from the plaque or frame any badge presented
under this section, or wear such a badge or display it, except while it is
attached to the plaque or within the frame, with the above-prescribed
statement clearly visible.  Any badge removed, worn or displayed in
violation of this section shall be subject to confiscation.



 



 



SEC. 57.101.9.  CONTINUING OFFENSES.



 



   The repeal of the previous provisions of Chapter 5, Article 7, of the
Los Angeles Municipal Code and the adopting of new ones shall not be
construed to commence a new or the running of any time limits which may have
been imposed by law, regulation, or order of the Chief or the Board, relating
to the enforcement of such limit, notices, or orders.



 



 



SEC. 57.102.  APPLICABILITY.



 



   Section 102 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.102.13.  EXISTING CONDITIONS.



 



   The provisions of this article shall apply to existing conditions, as
well as to new conditions, except that conditions legally in existence at the
adoption of this article and not in strict compliance therewith shall be
permitted to continue unless the Chief determines they constitute a distinct
hazard to life or property.



 



 



SEC. 57.103.  DEPARTMENT OF FIRE PREVENTION.



 



   Section 103 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.103.1.1.  DUTIES OF THE CHIEF.



 



   It shall be the duty of the Chief to enforce the provisions of this
article.



 



 



SEC. 57.103.1.2.  INSPECTIONS AND REPORT OF FINDINGS.



 



   The Chief shall, upon report of any violation of this article, make an
inspection and report of his findings thereto.



 



 



SEC. 57.103.1.3.  SIGNING OF CERTIFICATES AND NOTICES.



 



   The Chief shall sign all certificates, notices, and orders pertaining
to fire safety and fire hazards.



 



 



SEC. 57.103.1.4.  ENFORCEMENT OF STATE FIRE MARSHAL RULES AND REGULATIONS.



 



   The Chief shall enforce, within the City, the Rules and Regulations
that have been formally amended by the State Fire Marshal for the prevention
of fire, or for the protection of life and property against fire or panic.



 



 



SEC. 57.103.2.  APPOINTMENT.



 



   The Fire Code Official shall be appointed and removed as provided by
City Charter.



 



 



SEC. 57.103.3.1.  OFFICE AND DUTIES OF THE FIRE MARSHAL.



 



   The Office of Fire Marshal is hereby created in the City of Los Angeles.



 



 



SEC. 57.103.3.1.1.  DESIGNATION OF FIRE MARSHAL.



 



   The Chief shall designate a Deputy Fire Chief of the Department who
shall serve as Fire Marshal with the authority to exercise the power and
perform the duties of the Fire Marshal.



 



 



SEC. 57.103.3.1.2.  CONTROL OF MATTERS.



 



   The Fire Marshal shall, under the direction of the Chief, have control
of all matters pertaining to the Bureau of Fire Prevention and Public Safety.



 



 



SEC. 57.103.3.2.  BUREAU OF FIRE PREVENTION AND PUBLIC SAFETY.



 



   The Bureau of Fire Prevention and Public Safety of the Department,
created by Ordinance No. 34,352 (N.S., approved June 19, 1916), is hereby
authorized to continue.



 



 



SEC. 57.103.3.2.1.  COMPOSITION OF BUREAU OF FIRE PREVENTION AND PUBLIC
SAFETY.



 



   The Bureau of Fire Prevention and Public Safety shall consist of the
following persons:



 



   1.   The Fire Marshal, who shall be the Chief Fire Prevention
Engineer of the Bureau of Fire Prevention.



 



   2.   Additional officers, assistants, and employees as the City
Council shall provide.



 



 



SEC. 57.103.3.2.2.  FUNCTION.



 



   The function of this Bureau shall be to administer and enforce the fire
prevention and life safety provisions of this article and shall include, but
not be limited to, the following:



 



   1.   The prevention of fires.



 



   2.   The investigation of the cause, origin, and circumstances of
fire or life safety hazards.



 



   3.   The elimination of fire and life safety hazards in any building
or structure, including those under construction, any premises, marine
vessel, aircraft, vehicle, or the appurtenances and equipment thereof.



 



   4.   The maintenance of fire protection equipment and systems.



 



   5.   The regulation of storage, use, and handling of hazardous
materials and hazardous substances.



 



   6.   Enforcement of the basic building regulations of the State Fire
Marshal as they apply to the City of Los Angeles in matters relating to fire,
panic, and explosion safety.



 



 



SEC. 57.103.4.2.  NONRESPONSIBILITY OF CITY.



 



   Neither the City of Los Angeles, nor any department, nor any board,
commission, officer, or employee thereof shall be held liable or responsible
for any damage or injury caused by or resulting from any inspection or
approval made under the provisions of this article.



 



 



SEC. 57.104.  GENERAL AUTHORITY AND RESPONSIBILITIES.



 



   Section 104 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.104.1.1.  AUTHORITY TO MAKE RULES.



 



   The Chief shall have the power to make and enforce such rules and
regulations for the purpose of prevention and control of fires and fire or
explosion hazards as may be necessary to carry out the purposes and intent of
this article.



 



 



SEC. 57.104.1.1.1.  RULE AUTHORIZATION BY THE BOARD.



 



   Every Rule of General Application to be followed by the public shall be
authorized only by order or resolution of the Board and shall be published
once in a daily newspaper and shall take effect upon such publication.



 



 



SEC. 57.104.1.1.2.  PENALTY FOR VIOLATION OF LEGALLY AMENDED RULES.



 



   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any rule or regulation
amended by the Board in accordance with the provisions of Section
57.104.1.1.1 of this article.



 



 



SEC. 57.104.9.2.1.  AUTHORITY TO REQUIRE TESTS.



 



   When determined by the Fire Marshal, or when requested by an applicant
for his own convenience and accepted by the Fire Marshal, certain approvals
may be granted which are not otherwise specifically required by Section
57.119.3.  When conducting the necessary investigation and tests,
preliminary to the granting of such approvals, the Department shall affix a
fee for each four hours, or fraction thereof, devoted to such investigations
and tests established as provided by Section 57.114.



 



   1.   Every approval granted in accordance with the provisions of
this subsection shall be valid for a period of three years after the date of
granting and may be renewed for additional three-year periods.



 



   2.   Applications for renewal of approvals shall be filed in the
same manner as for an original approval.



 



   3.   Each such application shall be accompanied by a renewal fee. 
Whenever the application for renewal is filed prior to the expiration date of
the approval, the renewal fee shall be 50% of the current fee required for
the first four hours.  Whenever the application for renewal is filed after
the expiration date of the approval, the renewal fee shall be as required for
a new approval.



 



   4.   The granting of a renewal of the approval shall be handled in
the same manner as for an original approval.



 



 



SEC. 57.104.9.3.  AUTHORITY TO APPROVE ALTERNATE MATERIALS OR METHODS OF
COMPLIANCE.



 



   The approval, by the Department, of plans and specifications required
by Chapter 1 of this article shall constitute the approval of alternate
materials, design, or methods of compliance set forth in such plans and
specifications.  Such approval shall not abrogate any approval required by
Chapter 9 of Los Angeles Municipal Code for any appliance, device, or
equipment.



 



 



SEC. 57.104.10.2.  AUTHORITY TO INVESTIGATE FIRES OR OTHER EMERGENCIES.



 



   The Chief shall have the authority to investigate the cause, origin,
and circumstances of every fire, explosion, or other emergency occurring
within the City. When the Chief finds that a fire, explosion or other
emergency is, or may be, the result of a previously issued notice of hazard
or a violation of any law, the Chief shall have the authority to take charge
immediately of all physical evidence in connection therewith.



 



 



SEC. 57.104.11.1.  BARRICADES.



 



   The Fire Chief or officer of the Fire Department in charge at the scene
of an emergency is authorized to place ropes, guards, barricades or other
obstructions across any street, alley, place or private property in the
vicinity of such operation so as to prevent accidents or interference with
the lawful efforts of the Fire Department to manage and control the situation
and to handle fire apparatus, and to prevent any and all persons from passing
through any such barriers, and from entering into any space set apart or
enclosed by means thereof, except persons having a pass as hereinafter
specified.



 



 



SEC. 57.104.11.4.  AUTHORITY AT EMERGENCY.



 



   When conducting fire fighting operations at emergencies, the Chief
shall have the authority to construct emergency firebreaks, utilize aircraft,
evacuate persons from the area, remove or impound vehicles in the area, close
or barricade streets, roads, drives, or other access ways both public and
private, ignite backfires and conduct backfire operations, and exercise such
other power and authority as will, in his opinion, best serve to control the
emergency.



 



 



SEC. 57.104.12.  AUTHORITY TO RECOVER INVESTIGATIVE COSTS.



 



   Nothing in this chapter or Code shall prohibit the payment of
investigative costs to the Fire Department by any person so convicted of any
provision of this article, to the Fire Department to restitute said agency
for all costs expended to investigate and/or enforce the provisions of this
Code.



 



 



SEC. 57.104.12.1.  NONCOMPLIANCE INSPECTION FEES.



 



   Authority to Collect a Noncompliance Fee.  If in the course of
enforcing any federal, state, or local law or ordinance, the Department
issues a Fire/Life Safety Order to a person or persons and the person fails
to comply with that order, the Department shall collect a Noncompliance Fee
as set forth in Sections 57.104.12.1 et seq.



 



 



SEC. 57.104.12.1.1.  NONCOMPLIANCE FEE.



 



   The Noncompliance Fee shall be the hourly inspector’s salary rate
multiplied by the number of hours expended in reinspections after the
Fire/Life Safety Order has been issued (two-hour minimum) and shall be paid
by the owner.  The first reinspection after the Fire/Life Safety Order has
been issued will not be charged to the owner if the property is in compliance
at the time of that reinspection.  If the property is not in compliance at
the time of the first reinspection, then time involved in all subsequent
reinspections shall be chargeable as a Noncompliance Fee.



 



 



SEC. 57.104.12.1.2.  BILLING OF NONCOMPLIANCE FEE.



 



   If multiple reinspections of a violation are required in order to gain
compliance, the Department shall cause a Noncompliance Fee billing to be sent
to the property owner, either at the time the Department finally gains
compliance, or when the Department seeks the filing of criminal charges,
unless a timely appeal has been filed. The Fire/Life Safety Order shall
contain the elements required in Section 57.104.12.1.2.  It shall state that
the owner is required to abate the hazard; set forth a reasonable time in
which to comply with the law; state that if the hazard is not abated by the
date specified on the notice as the compliance date, the owner shall be
responsible for Noncompliance Fees, including administrative costs; and state
that these costs may ultimately result in a lien against the property. 
Billing of the fees shall be by United States mail, in a sealed envelope with
postage paid, addressed to the last known address of the person served with
the fire/life safety violation.  Service of the bill shall be deemed to have
been completed at the time of deposit with the United States Postal
Service.  The person or persons served shall remit the Noncompliance Fee to
the Department within 30 days after the date of service.  Payment of the
Noncompliance Fees may be made by cash, check, certified check, cashier’s
check, money order, or credit card.  If the property owner fails to make the
payment in a timely manner, then the Department may demand payment of the
Noncompliance Fee from the person or persons served for the property
involved, prior to the issuance of any permit, certification, or approval to
the person or persons served, pursuant to the authority granted by Section
57.105.5.1.  If the property owner fails to pay a Noncompliance Fee imposed
within 30 days, the Department shall send a second notice in the same manner
described above.  If the property owner fails to pay the fee within ten days
after the second notice was mailed, a collection fee equal to 50% of the
original Noncompliance Fee shall be imposed.  This additional fee shall
become part of the debt immediately due and owing to the Los Angeles Fire
Department.  The City shall have the right to bring legal action in any
court of competent jurisdiction to enforce the order and collect the amount
of the fees.  In addition to any other remedy provided by law, the City may
collect any judgment, fee, cost, or charge, including any permit fees, fines,
late charges, or interest, incurred in relation to the provisions of this
section as provided in Los Angeles Administrative Code Sections 7.35.1
through 7.35.8.  Nothing in this section regarding the imposition of
Noncompliance Fees shall prevent the Department from pursuing other legal
action, including, but not limited to, the filing of criminal charges in
order to gain compliance with the Fire Code.



 



 



SEC. 57.104.12.1.3.  PROCEDURES FOR APPEALS TO THE BOARD OF FIRE
COMMISSIONERS.



 



   Any property owner upon whom a Noncompliance Fee has been imposed may
appeal to the Board of Fire Commissioners.



 



   1.   The appeal shall be made in writing to the Board of Fire
Commissioners, upon appropriate forms provided by the Department, within 15
days of the date of service of the billing.



 



   2.   An appeal processing fee of $50.00 shall be paid by the
appellant prior to the Board processing the appeal and making a determination.



 



   3.   Additional inspections may be required in order to determine
compliance with the Fire/Life Safety Order for purposes of preparing a
Department presentation to the Board, or designee, for determination on
appeal.  The fee for these inspections shall be the hourly inspector’s
salary rate multiplied by the number of hours expended (two-hour minimum) in
the reinspection process, and shall be paid by the appellant.



 



   4.   In any appeal, the appellant making the request shall cause to
be made, at the appellant’s own expense, any tests required by the Board to
substantiate the claims.



 



   5.   The Board may hold any hearings it deems appropriate to
consider the appeal.  The Board of Fire Commissioners, or its designee,
shall conduct the hearings.



 



   6.   The Board shall determine whether to modify or rescind the
fees, or to impose and require the owner to pay the fees.  This
determination shall be based on evidence in the record of any error on the
part of the Fire Department or extreme hardship on the part of the property
owner.  This determination by the Board shall be final.  The fees and
charges imposed pursuant to Section 104.12 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code
may be collected on the County tax rolls.



 



 



SEC. 57.104.13.  AUTHORITY TO ISSUE PARKING NOTICES.



 



   The Chief shall have the authority to issue parking control notices as
provided in Sections 22500, 22500.1, 22514 and 41102 of the State of
California Vehicle Code when an illegally parked vehicle blocks access to a
fire hydrant, fire lane, or obstructs access to or from a fire station.



 



 



SEC. 57.104.14.  AUTHORITY TO RECOVER COSTS FOR ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES.



 



   In the event a public nuisance caused by the presence of flammable or
hazardous materials is abated by the Fire Department, either pursuant to its
authority under this Code or upon request by any other City department, or is
abated by any other City department having authority to abate the nuisance,
the costs of abatement, including any cost incurred by the City in using
non-City personnel to abate the nuisance, shall be recovered by the City from
the person or persons creating, causing, committing, or maintaining the
nuisance.  All costs incurred pursuant to this section shall be a personal
obligation against the person or persons creating, causing, committing, or
maintaining the nuisance and the owner of the property, recoverable by the
City in an action before any court of competent jurisdiction.  These costs
shall include an amount equal to 40% of the cost to perform the actual work,
but not less than the sum of $100.00, to cover the City’s costs for
administering any contract and supervising the work required.  In addition
to this personal obligation and all other remedies provided by law, the City
may collect any judgment, fee, cost, or charge, including any permit fees,
fines, late charges, or interest, incurred in relation to the provisions of
this section as provided in Los Angeles Administrative Code Sections 7.35.1
through 7.35.8.



 



 



SEC. 57.104.15.  AUTHORITY TO TAKE PHOTOGRAPHS.



 



   Photographs may be taken by the Fire Department as authorized in
Sections 57.104.15.1 and 57.104.15.2.



 



 



SEC. 57.104.15.1.  NOTICE OF A VIOLATION.



 



   After a notice of a violation of this article has been issued, sketches
may be made and photographs may be taken, as are found necessary, with
permission of the owner or person in charge or control of the premises.



 



 



SEC. 57.104.15.2.  SUBSEQUENT TO EMERGENCY.



 



   Subsequent to a fire, explosion, or other emergency, sketches may be
made and photographs may be taken, as are necessary, to adequately depict the
condition for the purpose of investigation.  No person shall interfere with,
refuse, or obstruct such sketching or photographing.



 



 



SEC. 57.104.16.  AUTHORITY OF PEACE OFFICERS.



 



   In enforcing the provisions of this article and such orders, rules and
regulations, variances and standards in connection therewith, the Chief is
hereby given the powers of peace officers.  They are empowered to inspect
and summarily abate any condition that constitutes an immediate hazard to
life by reason of fire, explosion or panic, or potential fire, explosion or
panic, or otherwise by reason of the presence of hazardous materials.



 



 



SEC. 57.104.17.  AUTHORITY TO GRANT VARIANCES AND WAIVERS.



 



   The Board shall have the power to grant slight variances from the
provisions of this article; provided that before authorizing such variances,
the Board shall first find cause therefor in fact in that strict enforcement
of this article is impractical, or creates unnecessary hardship, or is
otherwise adjudged unwarranted in each instance.  Such variances must be in
conformity with the spirit and purpose of this article and must secure the
public safety.



 



 



SEC. 57.104.17.1.  POWER TO WAIVE.



 



   The Board shall have the power to waive any part or all of the
provisions of this article which may apply to a refinery, natural gasoline
plant, or laboratory where such is found to be in an adequately separated
installation at which fire protection and emergency facilities especially
adapted to the needs are available and where the Board determines that by
reason of such isolation and protection, the public safety is assured and no
unreasonable hazard will result to persons or property.



 



 



SEC. 57.104.17.2.  APPLICATION FOR A VARIANCE OR WAIVER.



 



   Each application for a variance or waiver shall be filed at the office
of the Bureau of Fire Prevention and Public Safety and shall be accompanied
by such maps, drawings, letters, statements, and other supporting data as may
be required to justify the request in question.  Except when such an
application is in conjunction with an application for a permit required by
Section 57.105.7.1.1 of this article, it shall be accompanied by payment of a
fee established by the most current cost recovery schedule published as
provided by Section 57.114 of this article.  An application for two or more
variances may be filed upon a single application and only one fee shall be
paid, provided that all such variances are located at the same address and
are for the same person.



 



 



SEC. 57.104.17.3.  INVESTIGATION.



 



   The Fire Marshal shall cause an investigation to be made of every
application for a variance or waiver.  Such investigation shall be made by
authorized members of the Fire Department.  At the conclusion of the
investigation, the Fire Marshal shall transmit the application, together with
his recommendation, to the Board of Fire Commissioners.



 



 



SEC. 57.104.18.  AUTHORITY TO REQUIRE FIRE SAFETY OFFICERS.



 



   Whenever the Chief determines it is essential for the safeguarding of
life and property from fire, explosion, panic, or other hazardous conditions
which may arise in the temporary use of an occupancy and/or premises, he may
require one or more Fire Safety Officers to be present during the activity. 
No such use of an occupancy or premises shall proceed without a timely
request to the Chief, as provided in this section, for assignment of a Fire
Safety Officer.



 



 



SEC. 57.104.18.1.  UNIFORMED FIRE SAFETY OFFICER.



 



   Whenever the Chief determines that a Uniformed Fire Safety Officer
shall be present, the Department shall collect a fee established by the
Board.  Said fee shall constitute the total sum payable from any source for
the services of that person.  The Board, with the concurrence of the City
Administrative Officer, shall determine on a regular basis the verifiable
cost of the City for the Fire Safety Officer.  These costs shall be the
actual total cost, as determined by the Board.



 



 



SEC. 57.104.18.2.  CERTIFIED FIRE SAFETY OFFICER.



 



   Whenever the Chief determines that a Certified Fire Safety Officer is
required, payment for the services of said officer shall be paid to the
officer by the person engaging the services of the Certified Fire Safety
Officer.  For each such Certified Fire Safety Officer assigned by the Chief,
the hourly rate shall be the rate established in the existing Los Angeles
Fire Department Memorandum of Understanding for Fire Inspector 1.  Said fee
shall constitute the total sum payable from any source for the services of
that person.  Payment for a Certified Fire Safety Officer shall be based on
the following requirements:



 



   1.   Four-hour minimum workday.



 



   2.   Time and one-half after eight hours.



 



   3.   Time and one-half for Saturdays and Sundays.



 



   4.   Time and one-half for holidays identified by the existing Los
Angeles Fire Department Memorandum of Understanding for Fire Inspector 1.



 



 



SEC. 57.104.18.3.  REQUEST.



 



   Request for the assignment of a Fire Safety Officer shall be made to
the office of the Bureau of Fire Prevention and Public Safety during normal
business hours not less than 24 hours business hours in advance of the
need.  For weekend assignment or when a holiday will intervene, the request
shall be made 48 hours in advance.



 



 



SEC. 57.104.19.  AUTHORITY TO ISSUE PASSES AND CREDENTIALS.



 



   The Board is authorized to issue approved passes entitling the holders
thereof to pass Fire Department barriers at the discretion of the Incident
Commander.  Such passes shall bear a number and a statement of the purpose
of issuance, together with the words “Los Angeles Fire Department.”



 



 



SEC. 57.104.19.1.  AT THE SCENE OF EMERGENCY.



 



   At the scene of an emergency, credentials which clearly establish the
authority of the holder hereof to enter the premises may be honored by the
Department at the discretion of the Incident Commander.



 



 



SEC. 57.104.19.2.  ABUSE OF PASSES.



 



   Every pass presented for admittance beyond a Fire Department barrier by
any person not entitled to the privilege accorded thereby shall be collected
by the Chief or any police officer, and all such passes so collected shall be
immediately returned to the Board.  No unauthorized person shall enter or
refuse to leave the area officially closed off by any Department barrier.



 



 



SEC. 57.104.19.3.  GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS.



 



   The duly authorized official badge or credentials of any government
officer or employee who is required to pass through a Department barrier in
the performance of duty shall entitle such person to pass through such
barrier at the discretion of the Incident Commander.



 



 



SEC. 57.104.20.  AUTHORITY TO ASSIGN APPARATUS, SUPPLIES, AND PERSONNEL.



 



   The Chief is hereby authorized to furnish and use supplies, equipment,
or apparatus, and assign regular members of the Department, for the
protection or preservation of life, property, and public welfare in the City
in any emergency or rescue operation, provided such use or assignment will
not interfere with nor hinder the performance of the Charter functions of the
Department.  The Chief shall have the power to make and enforce rules and
regulations, in accordance with Section 57.104.1.1, for the use of such
supplies, equipment, or apparatus, and for the assignment of members of the
Fire Department in emergencies or rescue operations as are necessary to carry
out the purposes and intent of this article.



 



 



SEC. 57.104.21.  AUTHORITY TO REQUEST POLICE ASSISTANCE.



 



   The Chief of Police and his duly authorized representatives shall have
the power and are hereby directed, upon the request of the Fire Chief or his
representatives, to assist in the enforcement of the provisions of this
article.



 



 



SEC. 57.104.22.  AUTHORITY TO ISSUE COPIES OF EDUCATIONAL FILMS AND TAPES.



 



   Authority to issue copies of educational films and tapes shall comply
with Sections 57.104.22.1 through 57.104.22.4.



 



 



SEC. 57.104.22.1.  TAPES PRODUCED AS A PART OF THE PUBLIC FIRE SAFETY
EDUCATION PROGRAM.



 



   The original negative and sound track of any film or tape produced as a
part of the public fire safety education program by the Fire Department may,
by order of the Board, be filed with the Chief, and copies thereof may be
issued only upon the payment of the fees or pursuant to contract as provided
in this section.



 



 



SEC. 57.104.22.2.  ESTABLISHMENT OF FEES.



 



   The Board may, by resolution or by contract, establish the fees to be
paid to the Fire Department for the obtaining of copies of films, tapes and
sound tracks.  Fees shall be calculated on the basis of actual cost incurred
in the production of such original films, tapes, and sound tracks, including
the pro rata cost of reproduction and distribution of copies thereof, based
upon the estimated number of copies that might be applied for, or upon any
other reasonable formula the Board may determine.



 



 



SEC. 57.104.22.3.  MONEYS DERIVED FROM THE SALE.



 



   Moneys derived from the sale, distribution, or rental of such films,
tapes, and sound tracks shall be paid into the General Fund of the City as
Departmental receipts.



 



 



SEC. 57.104.22.4.  CONTRACTS.



 



   All contracts entered into by the Board pursuant to the provision of
this section shall first be submitted to and approved by the City Attorney.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.  PERMITS.



 



   Section 105 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.1.2.  TYPES OF PERMITS.



 



   There shall be five types of permits as follows:



 



   1.   Operational Permit.  An Operational Permit allows the
applicant to conduct an operation or a business for which a permit is
required by Section 105.6 for either:



 



   1.1   A prescribed period.



 



   1.2   Until renewed or revoked.



 



   2.   Specific Action or Project Permit.  A Specific Action or
Project Permit allows the applicant to use, install or modify systems and
equipment or conduct an operation for which a permit is required by Section
57.105.7.



 



   3.   Special Permit, Section 105.8.



 



   4.   High-Rise Inspection Permit, Section 105.9.



 



   5.   Unified Program Facility Permit, Section 120.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.1.2.1.  ACTING WITHOUT A PERMIT PROHIBITED.



 



   No person shall sell, offer for sale, install, operate, maintain, or
use any appliance, device, equipment, or system which requires a permit, a
Special Permit, or a general approval by provisions of this article, unless
such permit, Special Permit, or general approval is then in effect.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.1.3.1.  SEPARATE PERMITS REQUIRED.



 



   A permit issued under the provisions of Section 57.105.6 shall be valid
only for the person in whose name it is issued, and for the location shown on
the permit. Separate locations require separate permits.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.3.5.1.  OPERATIONAL PERMITS – POSTING AND KEEPING.



 



   Each valid permit issued pursuant to the provisions of Section 57.105.6
shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises for which the same is
issued.  Persons engaged in the business of operating or maintaining any oil
well shall keep the permit available for inspection at the main office or
principal place of business of the permittee.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.3.9.  OPERATIONAL PERMITS.



 



   Operational Permits under the provisions of Section 57.105.6 for
activities listed under Sections 57.105.6.1 through 57.105.6.31 shall comply
with the requirements of Sections 57.105.3.9 through 57.105.3.9.8.6.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.3.9.1.  APPLICATION FOR OPERATIONAL PERMITS.



 



   Applications for Operational Permits under the provisions of Section
57.105.6 for activities listed under Sections 57.105.6.1 through 57.105.6.31
shall comply with the requirements of Sections 57.105.3.9.1.1 through
57.105.3.9.1.2.2.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.3.9.1.1.  FILING.



 



   All applications for permits required by Section 57.105.6 shall be
filed with the Office of Finance and shall be in writing on forms provided by
the Office of Finance.  Such applications shall be accompanied by the permit
fees required by this article.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.3.9.1.2.  CONTENTS OF APPLICATION.



 



   Applications for permits required by this chapter shall, unless
otherwise required by the Department, contain the following information:



 



   1.   The name and address of the applicant.



 



   2.   A description of the property by street and number wherein or
whereon the applicant proposes to engage in the business, operation, or to
occupy the premises for which the permit is required, and if the same has no
street number, then such description as will enable it to be easily located.



 



   3.   A statement signed by the applicant or the applicant’s
authorized representative signifying the applicant is in charge of such
business, operation, occupation, or premises, and agrees to comply with all
regulations, laws, or ordinances pertaining thereto.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.3.9.1.2.1.  PERMIT TO STORE, PROCESS, OR USE HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.



 



   If the application is for a permit to store, process, or use hazardous
materials, above ground of the type and in the amounts exceeding those set
forth in Table 57.105.6.14 of this chapter or exceeding the permit amounts
for hazardous materials in Chapter 50, it shall state thereon the maximum
aggregate quantity of such materials which the applicant intends to store,
process, or use at any time and the business shall comply with all inventory
reporting and business plan requirements in Section 57.121.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.3.9.1.2.2.  PERMIT FOR ASSEMBLY OCCUPANCIES.



 



   If the application is for a permit for assembly occupancies, it shall
be accompanied by three copies of a floor plan which clearly indicates the
maximum capacity for the proposed use.  The plans shall be drawn to scale
and show all seats, cross aisles, and exit doorways in accordance with the
provisions of this article.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.3.9.2.  PERMITS – INVESTIGATION AND PROCEDURE FOR GRANTING –
POWER TO DENY.



 



   Investigation and procedure for granting – power to deny permits
shall be in accordance with Sections 57.105.3.9.2.1 and 57.105.3.9.2.2.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.3.9.2.1.  INVESTIGATION AND PROCEDURE FOR GRANTING.



 



   Investigation and procedure for granting permits shall be as follows:



 



   1.   The Fire Marshal shall investigate an application for a permit,
and such investigation shall be made by authorized members of the Fire
Department.



 



   2.   The Fire Marshal may require such additional information as may
be necessary to carry out the investigation of the application for a permit.



 



   3.   The Chief shall determine the allowable occupant load permitted
for an assembly or institutional occupancy based upon the aisle and exit
provisions of Chapter 10 of this article.  The allowable occupant load shall
not exceed the maximum occupant load designated in the certificate of
occupancy issued by the Department of Building and Safety, or in the absence
of such certificate, the maximum occupant load approved by the Chief.



 



   4.   If, after investigation and consideration of any application,
and any plans or specifications required in connection therewith, the Chief
shall determine that the proposed business, operation, occupation or premises
will not create any undue hazard as a result of fire or panic, and the
applicant will comply with any requirements of this article and all other
applicable laws, the Chief shall approve the application.



 



   5.   The Chief’s approval of the application may be made subject
to terms and conditions necessary for the safeguarding of life and property
from the hazards of fire, explosion or panic.



 



   6.   On approval of the application by the Chief and the payment of
the required fee, the Office of Finance shall issue the permit.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.3.9.2.2.  POWER TO DENY.



 



   The Chief, in his discretion, is hereby empowered to deny or withhold
approval of a permit for which an application has been made if the building,
premises, equipment, apparatus, vehicle, or reasonable facilities for the
establishing, maintaining, conducting operating the business, operation,
occupation, or premises for which the permit is requested is or are
insufficient or are unfit or incapable of being used, maintained,
established, or operated to comply with this article or other applicable laws
and the Rules and Regulations of the Department.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.3.9.3.  PERMITS – FORM.



 



   Each permit issued by the Office of Finance shall be in accordance with
the provisions of this section and shall have set forth upon the face thereof
the following:



 



   1.   The name of the person to whom issued;



 



   2.   The classification or type of business, operation, occupation,
or premises for which such permit is issued;



 



   3.   The address where the business, operation, occupation, or
premises is located; and where the address is different from that of the
applicant, the address designated by the applicant or his or her authority
agent for mailing purposes.  The mailing address so appearing shall be the
address to which all notices required or authorized in this article shall be
sent unless the applicant or permittee shall request the Office of Finance in
writing that another address be used for such purposes;



 



   4.   The signature of the Chief printed thereon; and



 



   5.   The date of expiration of the permit, and the date upon which
the annual permit fee shall be due and payable.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.3.9.4.  PERMITS – TRANSFER.



 



   No permit shall be transferable except when the business, operation,
occupation, or premises for which the permit is issued, is transferred,
whether by sale or otherwise, to another person under such circumstances that
the ownership after the transfer is substantially similar to the ownership
existing before the transfer.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.3.9.4.1.  CHANGE OF LOCATION.



 



   Any change of location for a business, operation, occupation, or
premises shall require filing of a new application and payment of the
applicable fee set forth in Section 57.105.3.9.7 of this article.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.3.9.5.  PERMITS – VALIDITY.



 



   Unless otherwise set forth on the face of the permit, every permit
issued in accordance with the provisions of this chapter shall be valid for
the year stated, or until voided, revoked, or suspended.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.3.9.6.  PERMITS – POWER OF REVOCATION AND SUSPENSION.



 



   Power of revocation and suspension of permits shall be in accordance
with Sections 57.105.3.9.6.1 through 57.105.3.9.6.3.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.3.9.6.1.  BY THE CHIEF.



 



   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this article to the contrary,
the Chief shall have the power to revoke or suspend any permit, at his
discretion, upon proof to the satisfaction of the Chief of violation by the
permittee of the provisions of this article, the Rules and Regulations of
this Department amended under the authority of Section 57.104.1.1, or the
terms and conditions of any permit as may be specified under the authority of
Section 57.105.3.9 of this article.  Such revocation or suspension shall be
in accordance with the provisions of 57.105.5 of this article.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.3.9.6.2.  BY THE OFFICE OF FINANCE.



 



   Whenever any person fails to comply with any provisions of this chapter
pertaining to contractor’s liability insurance or the payment of permit
fees, the Office of Finance upon hearing, after giving such person ten
days’ notice, in writing, specifying the time and place of hearing and
requiring the person to show cause why the permit should not be revoked for
such failure, may revoke or suspend any one or more of the permits held by
such person.  The notice shall be served in the same manner as notices are
served under Section 21.16 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.3.9.6.3.  OPERATION AFTER REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.



 



   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any business,
operation, or occupation, or use any premises, after the permit issued
therefore has been suspended or revoked pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter unless the permit has been reinstated or a new permit issued.  Any
person who engages in any business, operation, or occupation, or uses any
premises, after the permit issued therefore has been suspended or revoked
pursuant to the provisions of this section, and before such suspended permit
has been reinstated or a new permit issued, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.3.9.7.  DELINQUENT FEES – UNCOLLECTIBLE.



 



   If the Office of Finance finds that any permit fee due or believed to
be due under the provisions of this chapter cannot be collected, or that
efforts to collect any such amount would be disproportionately costly with
relation to the probable outcome of the collecting efforts, the Office of
Finance may prepare a report setting forth its findings and the reasons
therefor, and submit it to a Board of Review constituted as provided in
Section 21.16 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.  On unanimous approval of a
finding by the Board of Review, the Office of Finance may remove from his
active accounts receivable any unpaid fee owing or believed to be owing from
one person which amounts to less than $100.00.  If the report relates to a
claim for the fees owing or believed to be owing from one person which
amounts to $100.00 or more, the Board of Review shall make its
recommendations upon the finding and, if the Board of Review unanimously
approves the finding, submit it to the Council with the finding of the Office
of Finance.  If the Board of Review does not unanimously approve the
finding, the matter shall be returned to the Office of Finance.  Upon the
approval of the findings by the Council, the Office of Finance may remove
from his active accounts receivable the amount so approved.  The Office of
Finance may include in a single report its findings and supporting reasons
regarding fees due from more than one person.  The removal from the active
accounts receivable of the Office of Finance of any unpaid fee as provided
herein shall not preclude the City from collecting or attempting to collect
any such fee that later proves to be collectible.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.3.9.8.  BONDS AND IN LIEU DEPOSITS FOR OIL WELLS.



 



   Each application for a permit for the drilling, operation, maintenance
of any oil well shall be accompanied by a bond or bonds in duplicate and
executed by the applicant as principal and by a surety company authorized to
do business in this state as surety, or by the applicant with two responsible
sureties satisfactory to the City Attorney.  All such bonds shall be
approved by the City Attorney as to form and content.  Required bonds shall
comply with Sections 57.105.3.9.8.1 through 57.105.3.9.8.6.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.3.9.8.1.  BONDS.



 



   Unless otherwise provided, a bond in the sum of $10,000 shall be filed
with the Office of Finance for each oil well for which a permit is required;
provided, however, that the applicant, in lieu of filing individual bonds for
each such well, may file a blanket bond in the sum of $50,000 covering all
oil wells for which a permit is required:



 



   1.   Where the $50,000 blanket bond is filed, each additional oil
well not described in said bond shall be covered hereunder by a rider,
submitted in duplicate and attached thereto, specifically describing such
additional property as the bond is to cover, said rider to be executed by the
principal and surety in the same manner as the bond is executed and shall be
approved by the City Attorney as to form and content;



 



   2.   The total aggregate liability under the blanket bond shall be
limited to the sum of $50,000; provided, however, that the maximum liability
for any one oil well shall not exceed the sum of $10,000.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.3.9.8.2.  THE CONDITION OF THE BOND.



 



   The conditions of the bond shall specify that the principal shall
comply with all of the provisions and requirements of this article and any
and all amendments thereto, and that in default thereof the principals shall
upon demand pay to the City of Los Angeles all charges, costs, and expenses
incurred by the City in respect to any abandonment or demolition of any oil
well, in the event of a failure on the part of the principal to abandon or
demolish any oil well as required by this article, and shall upon demand pay
to the City all charges, costs, an expenses incurred by the City in respect
to altering, reconstruction or repairing any oil well so as to cause the same
to comply with the provisions of this article in the event of the failure on
the part of the principal to comply with such provisions.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.3.9.8.3.  THE TERM OF EACH SUCH BOND.



 



   The term of each such bond shall begin upon the date thereof, and shall
terminate upon the filing of a new bond as required by the permittee covering
the same oil well, or upon the abandonment of such, oil well in the manner
required by this article.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.3.9.8.4.  IN LIEU OF A SURETY BOND.



 



   In lieu of a surety bond as herein prescribed, the City Attorney may
accept an agreement of indemnity executed by the applicant or permittee and
accompanied by a deposit of cash in substantially the following form and
manner:



 



   1.   The applicant or permittee shall deposit, and at all times
maintain on deposit with the Treasurer of the City of Los Angeles, an amount
in cash equivalent to the amount of the bond required by the provisions of
this article;



 



   2.   The applicant or permittee, concurrently with the making of
said deposit, shall execute and deliver to the Office of Finance an agreement
in writing, which shall be subject to the approval of the City Attorney as to
form and content, confirming the deposit and agreeing to indemnify the City
against any loss and damage arising out of the failure on the part of the
applicant or permittee faithfully to comply with the provisions of this
article;



 



   3.   The City Treasurer shall have the custody of the cash deposited
hereunder;



 



   4.   The Chief shall determine the fact of a default by the
applicant or permittee in the performance of all of the terms and conditions
of this article and the amount of all charges, costs, and expenses incurred
by the City thereby provided for herein and shall order the payment thereof
from the deposit.  The Chief shall transmit his findings and order to the
Treasurer, who shall make payment to the City for all charges, costs, and
expenses incurred.



 



   5.   The agreement of indemnity herein provided for may set forth
such additional terms and conditions as the City Attorney finds necessary or
convenient to carry out the purposes and intent of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.3.9.8.5.  EXTENSION OF TIME.



 



   Whenever the Chief extends the time in which the permittee may perform
any acts required by this article, such extension of time shall not be deemed
to exonerate or discharge any surety upon any bond filed hereunder.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.3.9.8.6.  POWER TO AUTHORIZE ACTS.



 



   The Chief shall have the power to authorize all necessary acts to be
done to make any such oil well comply with the provisions of this article
relating thereto or to perform the necessary acts to abandon and demolish any
such oil well and to restore the property to its natural condition.  The
City Controller shall approve all warrants held by the City Treasurer for the
necessary expense incurred in correcting the violation of this article
relating thereto and the abandoning and demolition of any such oil well.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.5.  REVOCATION, SUSPENSION, OR DENIAL OF PERMITS, SPECIAL
PERMITS, GENERAL APPROVALS, AND CERTIFICATES OF FITNESS.



 



   The revocation, suspension, or denial of permits, Special Permits,
general approvals, and Certificates of Fitness shall comply with Sections
57.105.5.1 and 57.105.5.3.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.5.1.  POWER TO REVOKE, SUSPEND, OR DENY.



 



   In addition to all other penalties prescribed herein, the Chief shall
have the power to revoke, suspend, or deny the granting of any permit,
Special Permit, general approval, or Certificate of Fitness, required
pursuant to the provisions of this article, for any of the following reasons:



 



   1.   When necessary for the protection of life and property; or



 



   2.   Violation of any provision of this article or any rule or
regulation amended hereunder; or



 



   3.   Violation of applicable law; or



 



   4.   Violation of any of the terms or conditions of such permit,
Special Permit, general approval, or Certificate of Fitness; or



 



   5.   Changing the occupancy, equipment, materials, processes, or
other conditions as permitted on a premises in such a manner as to create a
greater risk of fire or explosion or less protection than was present at the
time of issuance of such permit, Special Permit, general approval, or
Certificate of Fitness; or



 



   6.   Upon a finding by the Chief of any practice constituting a
fraud upon the public; or



 



   7.   Upon a finding by the Chief of evidence of inability, lack of
necessary expertise, or willful or negligent failure to properly and safely
perform the duties for which a Certificate of Fitness is granted; or



 



   8.   Upon a finding by the Chief of evidence of a lack of
cooperation with, or courtesy to, members of the public, the Department, or
other agencies in the conduct of the activity for which the certificate was
issued.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.5.1.1.  AGENT OR REPRESENTATIVE.



 



   No person shall act as an agent or representative for or on behalf of
any person whose permit, Special Permit, general approval, or Certificate of
Fitness has been revoked or suspended by the Chief with respect to any matter
covered by such permit, Special Permit, general approval, or Certificate of
Fitness during the period of such revocation or suspension.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.5.2.  NOTICE AND HEARING.



 



   Generally no permit, Special Permit, general approval, or Certificate
of Fitness shall be suspended or revoked until a hearing is held by the
Chief.  Written notice shall be served not less than five days and not more
than ten days prior to the date of such hearing on the owner or any other
person lawfully in possession of such permit, approval, or certificate. 
Said notice shall state the grounds of the complaint against the owner or
other person together with the time and place the hearing will be held. 
Service of notices and the conduct of the hearing shall be in conformance
with the requirements of Sections 11.00 and 22.02 of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code.  Any permit, Special Permit, general approval, or
Certificate of Fitness may be temporarily suspended by the Chief for
violation of the terms thereof when immediate action is necessary to abate
conditions dangerous to life or property without such notice and hearing.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.5.3.  VOIDANCE OF PERMITS AND SPECIAL PERMITS.



 



   All permits and Special Permits shall become void upon any change of
owner or location shown on the permit.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.6.  REQUIRED OPERATIONAL PERMITS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 185,802, Eff. 12/1/18.)



 



   The Fire Code Official is authorized to issue Operational Permits for
the operations set forth in Sections 57.105.6.1 through 57.105.6.36.  The
provisions of this section apply to permits which constitute authority for a
continuing action by the permittee.  No person or owner shall use any
premises or engage in any activities described herein without having obtained
a permit pursuant to this section.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.6.1.  AIRCRAFT FUELING STATION.



 



   An Operational Permit is required to engage in the business of aircraft
fueling station.  An aircraft fueling station is that portion of a premise
which handles the transfer of flammable or combustible liquids or liquefied
flammable gas into or from an aircraft or fueler.  It includes the pumps,
underground piping and main storage tanks used to store and dispense the
fuels.  Only one permit is required for all buildings, structures or space
owned by the same person at the same location.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.6.2.  AIRCRAFT REFUELER.



 



   An Operational Permit is required to engage in the business of aircraft
refueler.  An aircraft refueler is any cargo tank vehicle used for the
transportation and transferring of flammable or combustible liquids or
liquefied flammable gas to or from fuel tanks or compartments of aircraft.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.6.3.  AIRPORT FUELING SYSTEM.



 



   An Operational Permit is required to engage in the business of
operating an airport fueling system.  An airport fueling system is an
arrangement of aviation fuel storage tanks, pumps, piping, and associated
equipment, or aircraft fuel servicing vehicles, installed at an airport and
designed to service aircraft at fixed positions.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.6.4.  AIRPORT, PRIVATE.



 



   An Operational Permit is required to engage in the business of
operating a private airport.  An airport is an area of land or structural
surface that is used, or intended for use, for the landing and taking off of
aircraft with an overall length greater than 39 feet and an overall exterior
fuselage width greater than 6.6 feet, and any appurtenant areas that are used
or intended for use for airport buildings and other airport facilities.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.6.5.  ASSEMBLY OCCUPANCY.



 



   An Operational Permit is required to engage in the business of
operating a place of public assemblage.  A place of public assemblage is any
building or premises having assemblage capacity greater than 49 persons
designed for entertainment, instruction, worship, meetings, display, or
consumption of food or drinks.  It includes the showing of motion pictures
when an admission is charged, the premise is open to the public and has a
capacity of ten or more persons.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.6.6.  ATMOSPHERIC ABOVE GROUND TANK.



 



   An Operational Permit is required to engage in the operation of an
atmospheric above ground tank exceeding 60 gallons capacity containing
hazardous material or hazardous waste.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.6.7.  BULK DISTRIBUTING STATION.



 



   An Operational Permit is required to engage in the business of a bulk
distributing station.  A bulk distributing station is any distributing
station where flammable or combustible liquids with a loading rack are
received by tank vessel, pipeline, tank car, or tank vehicle, and are stored
or blended in bulk for the purpose of distributing such liquids by tank
vessel, pipeline, tank car, tank vehicle, or container.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.6.8.  CENTRAL STATION SIGNALING SYSTEM, SUPERVISING STATION.



 



   An Operational Permit is required to engage in the business of
operating a central station signaling system, supervising station.  A
central station signaling system is a system consisting of electrically
operated circuits and equipment, which transmits alarms from buildings and
structures equipped with a fire protection system to a central station which
is controlled and operated by a Fire Department-approved person or firm whose
business is the furnishing and maintaining of such a system and where
qualified personnel are in attendance at all times to notify the Fire
Department of any alarm received.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.6.9.  CHURCH.



 



   An Operational Permit is required to engage in the business of a
church.  A church is any building or premises used as a place of assemblage
for public worship or meditation.  Original fee only.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.6.10.  COMMUNITY CARE FACILITY (SERVING MORE THAN 6 PERSONS).



 



   An Operational Permit is required to engage in the business of
community care facility.  A community care facility is any facility, place,
or building that is maintained and operated to provide non-medical day
treatment, adult day care, including, but not limited to, the physically
handicapped, mentally impaired, incompetent persons, and includes the
following (greater than six persons; 18 years old and over):



 



   Adult Day Program



 



   Therapeutic Day Services Facility



 



   Social Rehabilitation Facility



 



   Community Treatment Facility



 



   Transitional Shelter Care Facility



 



   Transitional Housing Placement Facility



 



 



SEC. 57.105.6.11.  CYLINDER FILLING PLANT.



 



   An Operational Permit is required to engage in the business of a
cylinder filling plant.  A cylinder filling plant is any lot or parcel of
land or portion thereof used for the purpose of filling portable pressure
vessels with liquefied flammable gas, flammable gas or other gas which is
defined as a toxic material, oxidizing material or unstable material.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.6.12.  DAY CARE.



 



   An Operational Permit is required to engage in the business of day care
in non-residential buildings for more than six children or any residential
building for more than eight children.  (Large Family Day Care).



 



 



SEC. 57.105.6.13.  DRY CLEANING PLANT.



 



   An Operational Permit is required to engage in the business of dry
cleaning or to change to a more hazardous cleaning solvent used in existing
dry cleaning equipment.  A dry cleaning plant is any building, premises or
room in which the actions of dry cleaning or dyeing are performed frequently
or regularly, whether as a primary business or as an accessory operation
useful or necessary to some other business.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.6.14.  HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.



 



   An Operational Permit is required to store, process, or use materials
above ground of the type and in the amounts exceeding those set forth in
Table 57.105.6.14 of this chapter or exceeding the permit amounts for
hazardous materials in Chapter 50.



 



TABLE 57.105.6.14
AMOUNTS OF MATERIALS EXEMPT FROM SECTION PERMIT REQUIREMENTS



 



 




TYPE

 
QUANTITY



1.   Air-Reactive Materials

 
No exemption



2.   Water-Reactive Materials

 
No exemption



3.   Unstable Materials

 
No exemption



4.   Explosive Materials

 
 



   Class A

 
No exemption



   Class B

 
10 Lbs.



5.   Fireworks

 
No exemption



6.   Smokeless Powder

 
20 Lbs.



7.   Black Sporting Powder

 
5 Lbs.



8.   Small Arms Ammunition

 
1,000 Lbs. (Net Weight)



9.   Flammable Gases

 
3,000 Cu. Ft.



10.   Liquified Flammable Gases

 
60 Gal.



11.   Flammable Liquids

 
 



   Class IA

 
60 Gal.



   Class IB

 
120 Gal.



   Class IC

 
180 Gal.



   Combination of Flammable Liquids with not more than the exempt amount
of Class IA, IB, or IC Liquids

 
240 Gal.



12.   Combustible Liquids

 
 



   Class II

 
240 Gal.



   Class III

 
500 Gal.



13.   Combustible Metals

 
500 Lbs.



14.   Flammable Fibers

 
 



   Loose

 
100 Cu. Ft.



   Baled

 
1,000 Cu. Ft.



15.   Flammable Solids

 
500 Lbs.



16.   Toxic Materials

 
 



   Class 3, 4

 
No exemption



   Class 1, 2 Gases

 
400 Cu. Ft.



   Solids or Liquids

 
100 Lbs.



   Etiologic Agent

 
No exemption



17.   Oxidizing Materials

 
 



   Gases

 
504 Cu. Ft.



   Liquids

 
50 Gal.



   Solids

 
500 Lbs.



18.   Organic Peroxides

 
 



   Class I, II, III

 
No exemption



   Class IV

 
10 Lbs.



19.   Corrosive Materials

 
 



   Liquids

 
200 Gal.



Solids

 
2,000 Lbs.



20.   Ammonium Nitrate Compound Mixtures Containing More Than 60% Nitrate
Weight

 
1,000 Lbs.




 



 



SEC. 57.105.6.15.  HELIPORT.



 



   An Operational Permit is required to engage in the business of
operating a heliport. A heliport is an area of land, water, or structure used
or intended to be used for the landing and takeoff of helicopters (excluding
“emergency use only” heliports).



 



   EXCEPTION:  Heliports used only as emergency helicopter landing
facilities on high-rise buildings, as required by the Fire Department.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.6.16.  HOSPITAL.



 



   An Operational Permit is required to engage in the business of a
hospital.  This occupancy shall include buildings and structures used for
medical, surgical, psychiatric, or custodial care on a 24-hour basis for more
than six persons who are classified as non-ambulatory or bedridden:



 



   Hospitals



 



   Mental Hospitals



 



   Also included are nursing or custodial care nursing homes.  This
occupancy shall include nursing or custodial care nursing homes (both
intermediate care facilities and skilled nursing facilities) on a 24-hour
basis for more than six persons who are classified as non-ambulatory or
bedridden and detoxification facilities.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.6.17.  HOTEL.



 



   An Operational Permit is required to engage in the business of a
hotel.  A hotel is any residential building designed or used for or
containing six or more guest rooms or suites of rooms, but not including any
institution in which human beings are housed or detained under legal
restraint.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.6.18.  LABORATORY USING HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.



 



   An Operational Permit is required to engage in the business of
operating a laboratory.  Only one laboratory permit shall be required for
all buildings or structures operated by same permittee at the same
location.  A laboratory is an occupancy devoted to experimental study in
science, or to testing, analysis, inspection, research or process control and
development.  Laboratories may contain one or more separate laboratory work
areas that involve the use of hazardous materials.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.6.19.  MARINE OIL TERMINAL.



 



   An Operational Permit is required to engage in the business of a marine
oil terminal.  A marine oil terminal is any plant, station, premises, or
equipment used in connection therewith, located on the harbor or ocean front,
which is designed and intended to deliver to or receive from oceangoing
vessels liquefied or gaseous hazardous materials or flammable or combustible
liquids.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.6.20.  MARINE SERVICE STATION.



 



   An Operational Permit is required to engage in the business of a marine
service station.  A marine service station is any station, plant, premises
or equipment used in connection therewith, where flammable or combustible
liquids used as motor fuels are dispensed from equipment, on shore, piers or
wharves to floating craft for fuel, except bunkering facilities for
oceangoing vessels.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.6.21.  NATURAL GASOLINE PLANT.



 



   An Operational Permit is required to engage in the operation of a
natural gasoline plant.  A natural gasoline plant is any facility in which
gasoline is extracted from petroleum vapors produced at the well.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.6.22.  OIL WELL.



 



   An Operational Permit is required to engage in the operation of an oil
well.  An oil well is any well or hole already drilled, being drilled or to
be drilled for, prospecting for, or producing petroleum, natural gas, or
other hydrocarbon substances; or is used or intended to be used for the
subsurface injection of oil field waste, gases, water or liquid substances,
including any such existing hole, well or casing which has not been abandoned.



 



   The notices for application and/or cancellation for a permit under this
classification are handled by the Fire Inspector in the Harbor Industrial
Unit.  Except that “oil well” shall not include “temporary geological
exploratory core hole.”



 



 



SEC. 57.105.6.23.  REFINERY.



 



   An Operational Permit is required to engage in the business of
operating a refinery.  A refinery is any plant, premises or facility used
for the process or production of petroleum, chemicals, or petro-chemicals
from raw or basic materials to marketable products in amounts exceeding 100
barrels per day capacity.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.6.24.  RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITY.



 



   An Operational Permit is required to engage in the business of
residential care facility.  This occupancy shall include buildings,
structures or parts thereof housing more than six clients, on a 24-hour
basis, who because of age, mental disability or other reasons, live in a
supervised residential environment that provides personal care services. 
This category may contain clients that are ambulatory, non-ambulatory and/or
bedridden.  This group shall include, but not be limited to, the following:



 



   Assisted living facilities, such as:



 



   Residential Care Facilities



 



   Residential Care Facilities for the Elderly (RCFE’s)



 



   Adult Residential Facilities



 



   Congregate Living Health Facilities



 



   Group Homes



 



   Residential Care Facilities for the Chronically Ill



 



   Congregate Living Health Facilities for the Terminally Ill



 



   Social Rehabilitation Facilities such as:



 



   Halfway Houses



 



   Community Correctional Centers



 



   Community Correction Reentry Centers



 



   Community Treatment Programs



 



   Work Furlough Programs



 



   Alcoholism or Drug Abuse Recovery or Treatment Facilities



 



 



SEC. 57.105.6.25.  SCHOOL.



 



   An Operational Permit is required to engage in the business of a
school.  A school is every building or portion thereof used for education,
training, or instruction through the twelfth grade for more than six persons
for more than 12 hours per week or four hours in any one day.



 



   EXCEPTION:  Rooms accessory to a church and used for religious
education for not more than two days per week are exempt.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.6.26.  SERVICE CENTER FOR ARMED FORCES PERSONNEL.  (ORIGINAL
FEE ONLY)



 



   An Operational Permit is required to engage in the operation of a
service center for armed forces personnel.  A service center for armed
forces personnel is any building or premises having assemblage capacity
greater than 49 persons designed for entertainment, display, or consumption
of food or drinks.  Military personnel and family will holdover at this
facility awaiting flights to other military destinations.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.6.27.  SPECIAL SCHOOL.



 



   An Operational Permit is required to engage in the business of special
school.  A special school is any building, premises, or portion thereof used
for education, training, or instruction of more than six students, 16 years
of age or under, for more than eight hours per week.  Examples include
dance, ballet schools, etc.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.6.28.  SURGICAL CENTER.



 



   An Operational Permit is required to engage in the operation of a
surgical center.  A surgical center is any healthcare facility that receives
persons for outpatient medical care that may render the patient incapable of
unassisted self-preservation and where each tenant space accommodates more
than five such patients.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.6.29.  THEATER.



 



   An Operational Permit is required to engage in the business of a
theater.  A theater is any room, hall, auditorium or premises having a stage
or platform designed or used for entertainment and adapted to the
presentation of plays, musicals, operas, pageants, or similar forms of
entertainment.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.6.30.  THEATER, LITTLE.



 



   An Operational Permit is required to engage in the business of a little
theater.  A little theater is any room, hall, auditorium or premises having
a stage not requiring a fire resistive curtain or auto sprinklers.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.6.31.  THEATER, MOTION PICTURE.



 



   An Operational Permit is required to engage in the business of a motion
picture theater.  A motion picture theater is any building or premises or
portion thereof designed or used for the showing of motion pictures, when an
admission fee is charged and when such building or premises is open to the
public and has a capacity of ten or more persons.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.6.32.  CARBON DIOXIDE ENRICHMENT SYSTEMS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   An Operational Permit is required for carbon dioxide enrichment systems
having more than 874 cu. ft. scf (100 pounds) of carbon dioxide.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.6.33.  FLAMMABLE AND COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS VEHICLE.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   An Operational Permit is required to engage in the dispensing of liquid
fuels into the fuel tanks of motor vehicles at commercial, industrial,
governmental or manufacturing establishments in accordance with Section
57.5706.5.4 or to engage in on-demand mobile fueling operations in accordance
with Section 57.5707.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.6.34.  FLAMMABLE AND COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS LOCATION.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   An Operational Permit is required to utilize a site for the dispensing
of liquid fuels from tank vehicles into the fuel tanks of motor vehicles,
marine craft and other special equipment at commercial, industrial,
governmental or manufacturing establishments in accordance with Section
57.5706.5.4 or, where required by the Fire Code Official, to utilize a site
for on-demand mobile fueling operations in accordance with Section 57.5707.



 



   EXCEPTION:  Film-related equipment in support of actual production
filming not to include personal vehicles.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.6.35.  PLANT EXTRACTION SYSTEMS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   An Operational Permit is required to use a plant extraction system.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.6.36.  HIGH-PILED COMBUSTIBLE STORAGE.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,802, Eff. 12/1/18.)



 



   An Operational Permit is required to use a building or portion thereof
as a high-piled combustible storage area exceeding 500 square feet (46m 2 ).



 



 



SEC. 57.105.7.  REQUIRED SPECIFIC ACTION OR PROJECT PERMITS.



 



   No person, firm, or corporation shall engage in any specific action or
project for which a permit is required by this section without first having
obtained a valid permit from the Department.  The Fire Code Official is
authorized to issue Specific Action or Project Permits for work as set forth
in Chapter 1, Section 57.105.7.1.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.7.1.  SPECIFIC ACTION OR PROJECT PERMITS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 186,026, Eff. 4/11/19.))



 



   Specific Action or Project Permits shall be required for the following
specific action or project, as set forth in Sections 57.105.7.1 through
57.105.7.1.12.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.7.1.1.  EQUIPMENT TO BE USED IN CONNECTION WITH HAZARDOUS
MATERIALS, HAZARDOUS WASTE, OR HAZARDOUS PLASTICS.



 



   A Specific Action or Project Permit is required to erect, install or
relocate any appliance, device, or system listed in this subsection when such
equipment is to be used in connection with hazardous materials, hazardous
waste, or hazardous plastics.



 



   1.   Atmospheric tank exceeding 60 gallons capacity.



 



   2.   Low pressure tank exceeding 60 gallons water capacity.



 



   3.   Pressure vessel exceeding 60 gallons water capacity.



 



   4.   Special vessel.



 



   5.   Spray booth or spray tunnel with any dimension greater than 3
feet.



 



   6.   Dip tank more than 150 gallons capacity or more than 5 square
feet of surface area.



 



   7.   Flow coat machine.



 



   8.   Drying oven.



 



   9.   Industrial oven or furnace, not otherwise specified.



 



   10.   Industrial proceeding equipment, not otherwise specified.



 



   11.   Fumigation chamber.



 



   12.   Automatic fire extinguishing system except automatic sprinkler
system.



 



   13.   Compressed or liquefied gas manifold (stationary).



 



   14.   Dust collecting systems.



 



   15.   Dry cleaning equipment, not otherwise specified.



 



   16.   Drill or redrill any oil well.



 



   17.   Asbestos Abatement.



 



   18.   Gas Detection System.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.7.1.2.  ADD TO OR ALTER.



 



   A Specific Action or Project Permit is required to add to or alter any
item, including ducting or piping connected thereto, as set forth in Section
57.105.7.1.1 of this section.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.7.1.3.  PERMIT REQUIRED TO CONDUCT AN OPERATION.



 



   A Specific Action or Project Permit is required to conduct any of the
following operations:



 



   1.   Fireworks display.



 



   2.   Blasting operation.



 



   3.   Exhibit, show, circus, or carnival on any parcel of land or
premises other than those for which a permit is required by Sections
57.105.6.1 through 57.105.6.31 of this article.  When such exhibit, show,
circus, or carnival is conducted within a tent, the fees required by Section
57.105.7.8 through 57.105.7.8.5 of this article shall be deemed to include
the use of such tent as a place of assemblage.



 



   4.   Transfer flammable gas, liquefied flammable gas, flammable
liquids or combustible liquids as provided for in exception to Section
57.5706.5.4.6, or in any other manner not specifically regulated by this
article.



 



   5.   Abandon oil well or underground tank.



 



   6.   Burn any hazardous refuse in an open outdoor fire.



 



   7.   Temporarily store explosives in a manner not otherwise
specifically regulated by this article.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.7.1.4.  TENT OR MEMBRANE STRUCTURE.



 



   A Specific Action or Project Permit is required to use any tent or
membrane structure (temporary only) as a place of assemblage.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.7.1.5.  FIRE HYDRANT ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.



 



   A Specific Action or Project Permit is required to install, alter or
relocate any part of any fire hydrant on private property.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.7.1.6.  CENTRAL STATION SIGNALING SYSTEM.



 



   A Specific Action or Project Permit is required to install any central
station signaling system.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.7.1.7.  LANDING AIRCRAFT INCLUDING HELICOPTERS.



 



   A Specific Action or Project Permit is required to land any aircraft
including helicopters, except in an emergency, any place other than an
airport or heliport which is regulated under the provisions of Chapter 20 of
this article.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.7.1.8.  LIVE THEATER PRODUCTION.



 



   A Specific Action or Project Permit is required to operate or maintain
a live theater production.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.7.1.9.  PLANT EXTRACTION SYSTEMS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   A Specific Action or Project Permit is required for installation of or
modification to a plant extraction system.  Maintenance performed in
accordance with this Code is not considered to be a modification and does not
require a construction permit.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.7.1.10.  BATTERY SYSTEMS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 186,026, Eff. 4/11/19.)



 



   A Specific Action or Project Permit is required to install stationary
storage battery systems regulated by Section 57.608.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.7.1.11.  EMERGENCY RESPONDER RADIO COVERAGE SYSTEM.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 186,026, Eff. 4/11/19.)



 



   A Specific Action or Project Permit is required for the installation of
or modification to emergency responder radio coverage systems and related
equipment.  Maintenance performed in accordance with this Code is not
considered to be a modification and does not require a Specific Action or
Project Permit.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.7.1.12.  GATES AND BARRICADES ACROSS FIRE APPARATUS ACCESS ROADS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 186,026, Eff. 4/11/19.)



 



   A Specific Action or Project Permit is required for the installation of
or modification to a gate or barricade installed across a fire apparatus
access road.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.7.2.  ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.



 



   If, after investigation and consideration of the application and any
plans and specifications in connection therewith, the Chief shall determine
that the proposed work or operation will not create any undue fire hazard and
that it will conform to the provisions of this article and of other relevant
laws.  Then the Chief shall approve the application.  The issuance of the
permit may be subject to conditions as may be necessary for the safeguarding
of life and property from the hazards of fire, explosion, or panic.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.7.2.1.  APPLICATIONS.



 



   Every application for a permit in accordance with Section 57.105.7
shall be filed at the office of the Bureau of Fire Prevention and Public
Safety upon forms provided by the Fire Department.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.7.2.2.  APPLICATION FEES.



 



   Every application for a permit in accordance with Section 57.105.7
shall be accompanied by the required fees set forth in this chapter.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.7.2.3.  APPLICATION TO CONDUCT A FIREWORKS DISPLAY.



 



   Every application for a permit to conduct a fireworks display shall be
filed no later than ten days prior to the date of the display.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.7.3.  PERMITS – EXPIRATION.



 



   Every permit required by Section 57.105.7.1.1 of this article shall
become void if the work authorized by such permit has not commenced within
six months of the date of issuance, or, if the work authorized by such permit
has not been completed within one year of the date of issuance.  Thereafter,
a new permit may be issued only upon filing a new application and payment of
the required fees.  The Chief may grant extensions of time upon presentation
by the permittee of satisfactory reasons for failure to start or complete the
work within the required time period.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.7.3.1.  VALID FOR THE PERIOD.



 



   Except as provided in Section 57.105.7.3, every permit issued under
authority of this section shall be valid for the period of time set forth
upon the face of the permit.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.7.4.  INSPECTION.



 



   Inspections shall be in accordance with Sections 57.105.7.4.1 through
57.105.7.4.1.1.2.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.7.4.1.  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.



 



   Every operation or activity for which a permit is required by Section
57.105.7.1 shall be subject to inspection by an authorized inspector of the
Fire Department.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.7.4.1.1.  SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS.



 



   In addition to the general requirements of Section 57.105.7.4.1, every
permit required by 57.105.7 of this article shall be subject to the specific
requirements of Sections 57.105.7.4.1.1.1 and 57.105.7.4.1.1.2.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.7.4.1.1.1.  CALLED INSPECTION.



 



   No portion of any equipment intended to be covered by earth or by
enclosure within permanent portions of a building or structure shall be
enclosed until inspected and approved by the Fire Department.  An inspection
shall be requested prior to covering or enclosure of any such equipment. 
Such request shall be made not less than two working days prior to the
estimated time of inspection.  Such installation shall not be covered until
after it has been inspected by an authorized member of the Fire Department.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.7.4.1.1.2.  FINAL INSPECTION.



 



   When the construction or installation work is completed and the
appliance, device, equipment, or system is ready for operation or use, but
before being operated or used, a final inspection shall be requested.  Such
request shall be made in the same manner as set forth in Section
57.105.7.4.1.1.  No such appliance, device, or equipment shall be used or
operated until the installation has been approved by the authorized inspector
making the final inspection.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.7.5.  COMPLETION OF WORK – FINAL INSPECTION TAG OF APPROVAL.



 



   When the Department has found, by survey or inspection, or both, that
the work authorized by a permit granted in accordance with the requirements
of Section 57.105.7.1.1 has been completed in accordance with the
requirements of the permit issued therefor and all of the provisions of this
article, the Department shall issue a final inspection tag of approval.  No
such appliance, device, equipment, or system shall be used until the final
inspection tag of approval has been issued by the Fire Department.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.7.6.  AUTHORITY TO REQUIRE EXPOSURE OF WORK.



 



   Whenever any installation on which a called inspection is required, as
specified in Section 57.105.7.5, is covered or concealed by additional work
without first having been inspected, the Chief may require, by written
notice, that such work be exposed for inspection.  The work of exposing and
recovering shall not entail any expense to the City.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.7.7.  FEE EXEMPT PERMITS.



 



   Fee Exempt Permits, without the payment of the fees prescribed by
Section 57.105.7.8.1 shall be issued those listed in Sections 57.105.7.7.1
and 57.105.7.7.2.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.7.7.1.  MUNICIPAL ENTITIES.



 



   Upon application, Fee Exempt Permits shall be issued without the
payment of the fees as prescribed by Section 11.08 of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.7.7.2.  NONPROFIT.



 



   Any religious, charitable, educational, or other nonprofit benevolent
institution operating or conducting a carnival or similar activity when the
net proceeds of the carnival or similar activity are to be used exclusively
for religious, charitable, benevolent, educational, or civic purposes, and
the institution has applied for and obtained a tax exempt registration
certificate pursuant to the provisions of Section 21.75 of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.7.8.  FEES.



 



   Before accepting an application for any permit required by this
chapter, the Fire Department shall collect the fees required therefor
established by the most current cost recovery schedule published as provided
by Section 115 and applicable thereto.  Upon payment of said fees the Fire
Department shall cause them to be deposited with the City Treasurer.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.7.8.1.  FEES SHALL APPLY TO.



 



   Fees established by the procedure set forth in Section 57.115 of this
article shall apply to permits for the following:



 



   1.   Atmospheric tank or low pressure tank:



 



   (a)   Shop built tank.



 



   (b)   Field erected tank not more than 3,000 barrels.



 



   (c)   Field erected tank, more than 3,000 barrels.



 



      No fee shall be charged for the issuance of a permit for the
installation, closure, addition to or alteration of an atmospheric
underground tank or tank system.



 



   2.   Pressure Vessel:



 



   (a)   Shop built vessel.



 



   (b)   Field erected vessel.



 



   3.   Special Vessel:



 



   (a)   Shop built vessel.



 



   (b)   Field erected vessel.



 



   4.   Spray Booth or Spray Tunnel.



 



   5.   Dip Tank:



 



   (a)   Not more than 500 gallons capacity.



 



   (b)   More than 500 gallons capacity.



 



   6.   Flow Coat Machine.



 



   7.   Drying Oven.



 



   8.   Industrial Oven or Furnace not otherwise specified.



 



   9.   Industrial Proceeding Equipment not otherwise specified.



 



   10.   Fumigation Chamber.



 



   11.   Automatic Fire Extinguishing System other than automatic
sprinkler system.



 



   12.   Compressed or Liquefied – Gas Manifold.



 



   13.   Install, alter or relocate Fire Hydrants on private property:



 



   (a)   For the first hydrant.



 



   (b)   For each additional hydrant.



 



   14.   Central Station Signaling System.



 



   15.   Dust Collecting System.



 



   16.   Dry Cleaning Equipment not otherwise specified.



 



   17.   Drill oil well or redrill oil well.



 



   18.   Asbestos Abatement.



 



   19.   Gas Detection System.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.7.8.2.  ADDITIONAL PLAN CHECK TIME.



 



   When the length of time spent in plan checking with regard to a
particular permit is such that the charge for hours spent, as computed in
accordance with the cost recovery schedule established under Section
57.113.6.3, exceeds the schedule fee for issuing a permit for that category
of activity, the charge as computed pursuant to Section 57.113.6.3 shall be
paid to the Fire Department before any permit is issued.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.7.8.3.  ALTERING.



 



   Every application for a permit required by Section 57.105.7.1.2 of this
article adding to or altering any item set forth in Section 57.105.7.1.1 of
this article shall be accompanied by a fee established by the procedure set
forth in Section 57.113.6.3 of this chapter.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.7.8.4.  ADDITIONAL SECTION FEES.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 185,802, Eff. 12/1/18.)



 



      Every application for a permit required by Sections 57.105.7.1.1
through 57.105.7.1.12 shall be accompanied by a fee or fees established by
the procedure set forth in Section 57.113.6.3 of this chapter for any of the
following:  (Amended by Ord. No. 186,026, Eff. 4/11/19.)



 



   1.   Conduct any fireworks display:



 



   (a)   Ground displays only; fee per day or portion thereof.



 



   (b)   Aerial burst with mortars not over 6 inches in diameter; fee
per day or portion thereof.



 



   (c)   Aerial burst with mortars over 6 inches in diameter; fee per
day or portion thereof.



 



   2.   Conduct any blasting operation; fee per four-hour period or
portion thereof.



 



   3.   Conduct any exhibit, show, circus, or carnival; fee per day or
portion thereof.



 



   4.   Use any tent or membrane structure as a place of assemblage:



 



   (a)   400 to 3,500 square feet.



 



   (b)   3,500 to 25,000 square feet.



 



   (c)   Over 25,000 square feet.



 



   5.   Drill not more than six temporary geological exploratory core
holes located within the perimeter of a circle having a radius of 1,000 yards
or less:



 



   (a)   Not over 1,500 feet in depth nor over 5 inches in diameter;
fee for each permit plus fee for each four- hour period or fraction thereof;



 



      Such permit to be in effect for the duration of drilling
operations and until core holes are abandoned in a manner approved by the
Chief.



 



   (b)   Over 1,500 feet in depth or greater than 5 inches in diameter;
fee for each 30 days of drilling operations, which shall include time for
abandoning core hole in a manner approved by the Chief.



 



   6.   Land any aircraft, including helicopters, any place other than
an approved airport or heliport.



 



   7.   Transfer flammable gas, liquefied flammable gas, flammable
liquids or combustible liquids in a manner not otherwise regulated by this
article.



 



   8.   Abandon any oil well.



 



   9.   Abandon any underground tank:



 



   (a)   For the first tank.



 



   (b)   For each additional tank.



 



   10.   Burn any hazardous refuse in an open outdoor fire.



 



   11.   Temporarily store explosives in a manner not otherwise
specifically revealed by this article.



 



   12.   Operate or maintain a live theatrical production, other than a
live production in a theater with a seating capacity of 99 persons or less.



 



   13.   For the installation of or modification to a plant extraction
system.  (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   14.   Installation of stationary storage battery systems regulated
by Section 57.608.  (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   15.   Install and/or modify emergency responder radio coverage
systems.  (Amended by Ord. No. 186,026, Eff. 4/11/19.)



 



   16.   Install and/or modify gates and barricades across fire
apparatus access roads.  (Amended by Ord. No. 186,026, Eff. 4/11/19.)



 



 



SEC. 57.105.7.8.5.  BLASTING OPERATION.



 



   Whenever any blasting operation is to be conducted in conjunction with
the drilling of a temporary geological exploratory core hole, the permits
shall be combined into a single permit.  The fee for any such combined
permit shall be either that specified in Subsections 2 or 5 of Section
57.105.7.8.4, whichever is greater.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.7.8.6.  TWO OR MORE ITEMS OF THE SAME CLASSIFICATION.



 



   When two or more items of the same classification are installed on the
same premises by authority of the same permit, the inspection fee required by
this section shall be computed on the basis of 100% of the fee required for
the first item, plus 50% of the fee for each additional item.  The
inspection fee for such multiple installations shall be equal to the greatest
fee required by this section for a single installation of any item thereon.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.7.9.  EMERGENCY INSPECTIONS.



 



   The Department may, at its discretion, make emergency inspections at
other than normal working hours when requested to do so by the permittee. 
The Board, with the concurrence of the City Administrative Officer, shall
determine from the cost of such inspection the fee therefor for every four
hours, or fraction thereof, of inspection time pursuant to the provisions of
Section 57.114 of this chapter.  For the purpose of this section, normal
working hours shall be construed to mean the hours between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00
p.m. of any day except Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.7.9.1.  INSPECTIONS NOT DEEMED TO BE EMERGENCY INSPECTIONS.



 



   Inspections of business operations that normally function after 5:00
p.m. and on Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall not be deemed to be
emergency inspections and shall not be charged the fee specified by this
section.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.7.10.  BLASTING PERMITS – INSURANCE REQUIRED.



 



   Every applicant for a blasting permit shall file with the Department
evidence of general liability insurance having such dollar limits and
coverage inclusions as the Department may from time to time require.  All
such insurance shall conform to the conditions stated on the City’s general
liability special endorsement form and must be approved by the Office of the
City Attorney, Insurance and Bonds Section, prior to the issuance of a permit.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.7.11.  BONDS AND IN-LIEU DEPOSITS FOR OIL WELLS.



 



   Each application for a permit for the drilling or redrilling of any oil
well shall be accompanied by a bond or deposit in accordance with Section
57.105.3.8.9 of this article.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.8.  AUTHORITY TO ISSUE, SUSPEND OR REVOKE SPECIAL PERMITS.



 



   Whenever the Chief determines that for the safeguarding of life and
property from fire, explosion, panic, or other hazardous conditions which may
arise in temporary operations or occupancies which are not otherwise
specified in this article, the Chief may require and issue a Special Permit
stating the conditions for such operation or occupancy.  The Special Permit
may be made subject to such terms and conditions as are necessary for the
preservation of life and property.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.8.1.  POWER TO REVOKE.



 



   The Chief shall have the power to revoke or suspend any Special Permit,
at his discretion, upon proof to the satisfaction of the Chief of violation
by the permittee of the provisions of this article, the Rules and Regulations
of this Department amended under the authority of Section 57.104.1.1, or the
terms and conditions of any Special Permit as may be specified under the
authority of this section.  Such revocation or suspension may be made in
accordance with the provisions of Chapter 1 of this article.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.9.  HIGH-RISE PERMIT GENERAL.



 



   It is the intent of this section to establish an annual fee and permit
process for inspection of high-rise buildings in the City of Los Angeles.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.9.1.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   The following terms are defined in Chapter 2:



 



   Floor Area



 



   Common Area



 



   Partially Vacant Building



 



 



SEC. 57.105.9.2.  PERMIT REQUIRED.



 



   No person or owner shall operate or maintain a new or existing
high-rise building without having obtained an annually renewable permit
pursuant to this section.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.9.2.1.  APPLICATIONS FOR PERMIT.



 



   As to buildings constructed prior to January 1 of the year, including
buildings constructed prior to the effective date of these regulations,
application for permit shall be filed on or before January 1 following the
date of construction or the effective date of these regulations.  Renewal
applications shall be filed on or before January of each year.  In the event
no application or renewal application is filed by January 1, the building
will be deemed to be operating without a permit.  The date of construction
shall be the date of issuance of a temporary certificate of occupancy by the
Department of Building and Safety.  All applications for permit shall be
filed with the Fire Department, and shall be in writing on forms provided by
the Fire Department.  The initial or renewal application for permit shall
contain the following information:



 



   1.   The name and address of the applicant.



 



   2.   A description of the property by street and number, as well as
the County Assessor map, book, page and parcel number.



 



   3.   Name and address of the owner of the building.



 



   4.   A statement signed by the applicant or the applicant’s
authorized representative stating that the applicant exercises charge and
control over the operation and maintenance of the high-rise building and
agrees to comply with all regulations, laws or ordinances pertaining thereto.



 



   The application for permit shall be accompanied by a signed statement
by the owner that the owner understands he, she or it is responsible for the
payment of the fee imposed by the Fire Department pursuant to this chapter.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.9.2.2.  INVESTIGATION.



 



   The Fire Marshal shall investigate the application for an initial or
renewal permit through authorized members of the Fire Department.  The
application may be approved subject to terms and conditions necessary to the
safeguarding of life or property from hazards of fire, explosion or panic. 
Issuance of the initial permit will be based on inspections made pursuant to
California Code of Regulations Title 19 during the previous year. 
Subsequent permit issuance will be based on inspections made during each
following calendar year.  The application may be denied or revoked by the
Fire Department if the building is unfit or incapable of being used,
maintained or operated in compliance with this article, other applicable laws
and rules and regulations of the Fire Department.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.9.2.3.  FORM.



 



   Each permit shall be issued in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter and shall set forth upon the face thereof the following:



 



   1.   The name of the person to whom issued.



 



   2.   The address where the premises are located and where the
address is different from that of the applicant, the address designated by
the applicant or his or her authorized agent for mailing purposes.  The
mailing address so appearing shall be the address to which all notices
required or authorized by this article shall be sent unless the applicant or
permittee shall request in writing that another address be used for such
purposes.



 



   3.   The signature of the Chief printed thereon.



 



   4.   The date of expiration of the permit and the date upon which
the annual permit fee shall be due and payable.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.9.3.  AUTHORITY TO REVOKE OR SUSPEND.



 



   Notwithstanding any other provision of this article to the contrary,
the Chief shall have the power to revoke or suspend any permit upon proof to
the satisfaction of the Chief of a violation by the permittee of the
provisions of this article, the Rules and Regulations of this Fire Department
amended under the authority of Section 57.104.1.1, applicable law or the
terms and conditions of any permit.  Such revocation or suspension shall be
in accordance with the provisions of Section 57.105.5 of this article. 
Whenever any person fails to pay the permit fee as provided for in Section
57.105.9.4, prior to its becoming delinquent, the Chief, upon hearing, after
giving such person ten days’ notice in writing specifying the time and
place of hearing, and requiring the person to show cause why the permit shall
not be revoked for such failure, may revoke or suspend the permit issued
herein.  Notice shall be served in the same manner as notices are served
under Section 21.16 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.9.3.1.  OPERATION AFTER REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.



 



   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or maintain any
high-rise building after the permit issued therefor has been suspended or
revoked pursuant to the provisions of this chapter unless the permit has been
reinstated or a new permit issued.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.9.4.  HIGH-RISE PERMIT FEE.



 



   The permit due dates, manor of determining cost, manor of approving
schedule and manor of accessing fees shall comply with Sections 57.105.9.4.1
through 57.105.9.4.4.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.9.4.1.  DUE DATES.



 



   1.   Initial Payment.  The permit fee shall initially be due, and
shall accompany the filing of an initial permit application, on the 1st of
January following the date of construction, as that term is defined in
Section 57.105.9.2 of this Code, or for buildings constructed prior to the
effective date of these provisions, on the 1st of January following that
effective date.



 



   2.   Annual Renewal.  Annual renewal permit fees for existing
permits shall become due and payable each year on the 1st day of January of
the calendar year and shall be submitted with the renewal application.



 



   3.   Delinquency.  Fees, whether initial or renewal, which are not
paid within 60 days after the due date shall be deemed delinquent and subject
to a 50% penalty.  However that the Department shall waive the penalty, with
the approval of the City Attorney, to the extent it exceeds any extra costs
caused by said delinquency.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.9.4.2.  MANNER OF DETERMINING COST.



 



   The cost of permits issued as required by Section 57.105.9 shall be
determined as provided in Section 57.114.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.9.4.3.  MANNER OF APPROVAL OF SCHEDULE.



 



   The Board shall collect charges in accordance with new schedules
approved as provided in Section 57.114.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.9.4.4.  MANNER OF ASSESSING FEES.



 



   The cost recovery schedule amended herein shall impose a charge per
square foot for each square foot of floor area in each building inspected,
and the fee per building shall be the aggregate of such charges per square
foot, subject to the following:



 



   1.   No fee shall be charged for inspection of high-rise buildings
used primarily for residential purposes (Group R Occupancies), except for
hotels, dormitories, residential apartments, and condominiums.



 



   2.   As to hotels, dormitories, residential apartments, and
condominiums, the charge per square foot shall apply only to the common areas
of the building.



 



   3.   The charge per square foot of garage area in any building shall
be less than the charge per square foot for the other areas of the building,
as set forth in the schedule or charges.



 



   4.   Where a high-rise building is connected to another building(s)
by a permanent above-ground structure or structures designed to permit
pedestrian and/or vehicular passage from one building to another, and the
buildings so connected are under common ownership, the charge per square foot
shall apply to each chargeable square foot of the buildings so connected,
including the connecting structure or structures, even though one or more of
the buildings so connected is not itself a high-rise building.



 



   5.   Where there exists beneath a high-rise building a garage
serving both that building and another building(s), all of which are under
common ownership, and the garage provides an exit(s) through which any
vehicle exiting the garage may pass, the charge per square foot shall apply
to all buildings and to the garage for the purposes of computing the fee
charged herein, even though one or more of the buildings served by the garage
is not itself a high-rise building.



 



   6.   A minimal charge per building shall be imposed irrespective of
the area of said building, as set forth in the schedule.



 



   7.   A partially vacant building as defined herein shall be subject
to a minimum charge.



 



 



SEC. 57.105.9.5.  NON-COMPLIANCE CHARGE.



 



   If any owner or operator of a high-rise building does not comply with
notices to correct violations cited in the annual inspection, and more than
one reinspection is necessary, a charge based on an inspector’s hourly rate
(two-hour minimum) for each subsequent reinspection shall be added to the
annual inspection fee in the event such reinspection costs have not been
charged and collected during the preceding calendar year.



 



 



SEC. 57.106.  INSPECTIONS.



 



   Section 106 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.106.5.  AUTHORITY TO MAKE INSPECTIONS.



 



   The Chief shall have the authority to inspect all buildings,
structures, premises, ships, boats, vessels, aircraft, tanks, vehicles, or
the appurtenances and equipment thereof, as often as may be necessary for the
purpose of ascertaining and causing to be corrected any conditions liable to
cause fire or explosion or any violation of the provisions or intent of this
article and of any other law affecting the fire hazard not exclusively
enforced by another governmental agency, and to insure compliance with all
laws, regulations, and orders dealing with overcrowding, use of decorative
materials, maintenance of exit ways, and maintenance of private fire alarm
and fire detecting systems and fire extinguishing systems and appliances.



 



 



SEC. 57.106.5.1.  AUTHORITY TO INSPECT.



 



   The Chief shall have the authority to inspect any contract, policy,
agreement, proof of loss, correspondence, or other written matter pertaining
to or in connection with specific adjustments made or carried on by any
person licensed as an insurance adjuster or private investigator in the State
of California.



 



 



SEC. 57.106.5.2.  AUTHORITY TO REQUIRE PLANS.



 



   The Chief shall have the authority to require such drawings, plans, or
sketches as may be necessary to identify the location of all the following:



 



   1.   Occupancy access points.



 



   2.   Devices and systems within the scope of Chief’s Regulation
No. 4.



 



   3.   Utility controls.



 



   4.   Stairwells.



 



   5.   Hazardous materials/waste.



 



 



SEC. 57.106.6.  AUTHORITY TO INSPECT.



 



   Whenever it is necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of, or perform any duty imposed by, this article or other
applicable law, or whenever the Chief or his authorized representative has
reasonable cause to believe that there exists in any building, structure,
ship, boat, vessel, aircraft, tank or vehicle, or the appurtenances and
equipment thereof or upon any premises any violation of the provisions of
this article or other applicable law, or any condition which makes such
building, structure, ship, boat, vessel, aircraft, tank, vehicle, or premises
hazardous, unsafe, or dangerous, the Chief is hereby authorized to enter such
building, structure, ship, boat, vessel, aircraft, tank, vehicle, or premises
at any reasonable time and to inspect the same and perform any duty imposed
upon the Chief by this article or other applicable law, subject to Sections
57.106.6.1 through 57.106.6.3.



 



 



SEC. 57.106.6.1.  OCCUPIED PROPERTY.



 



   If such property be occupied, the Chief shall first present proper
credentials to the occupant and request entry explaining the reasons therefor.



 



 



SEC. 57.106.6.2.  UNOCCUPIED PROPERTY.



 



   If such property be unoccupied, the Chief shall first make a reasonable
effort to locate the owner or other persons having charge or control of the
property and request entry, explaining his reasons therefor.  If such entry
is refused or cannot be obtained because the owner or other persons having
charge or control of the property cannot be found after due diligence, the
Chief shall have recourse to every remedy provided by law to secure lawful
entry and inspect the property.



 



 



SEC. 57.106.6.3.  REASONABLE CAUSE.



 



   Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Chief has reasonable cause to
believe that the building or premises is so hazardous, unsafe or dangerous as
to require immediate inspection to safeguard the public health or safety, the
Chief shall have the right to immediately enter and inspect such property,
and may use any reasonable means required to effect such entry and make such
inspection, whether such property be occupied or unoccupied and whether or
not permission to inspect has been obtained.  If the property be occupied,
the Chief shall first present proper credentials to the occupant and demand
entry, explaining the reasons therefor and the purpose of the inspection.



 



 



SEC. 57.107.  MAINTENANCE.



 



   Section 102 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.107.6.  OVERCROWDING.



 



   Overcrowding or admittance of any person beyond the approved capacity
of a building or a portion thereof shall not be allowed.  The Fire Code
Official, upon finding any overcrowding conditions or obstructions in aisles,
passageways or other means of egress, or upon finding any condition which
constitutes an immediate life safety hazard, shall be authorized to cause the
event to be stopped and the operating permit to be suspended for the
remainder of the business day.



 



 



SEC. 57.107.7.  AUTHORITY TO INSTALL, TEST, AND REQUIRE MAINTENANCE OF FIRE
PROTECTION SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT.



 



   Installation, alteration, and major repair of the items listed in this
subsection shall be performed under permit of the Department of Building and
Safety when a permit is required by that Department for such work.



 



   1.   Fire Department communication systems.



 



   2.   Building communication systems.



 



   3.   Automatic elevators.



 



   4.   Heliports and emergency helicopter landing facilities.



 



   5.   Emergency power systems.



 



   6.   Fire escapes.



 



   7.   Private fire hydrants.



 



   8.   Fire assemblies.



 



   9.   Fire protective signaling systems.



 



   10.   Pilot lights and warning lights for heat-producing equipment.



 



   11.   Refrigerant discharge systems.



 



   12.   Smoke detectors.



 



   13.   Emergency smoke control systems.



 



   14.   Automatic sprinkler systems.



 



   15.   Standpipe systems.



 



   16.   Gas detection systems.



 



 



SEC. 57.107.7.1.  INSTALLATION, ALTERATION, MAINTENANCE, AND REPAIR.



 



   Installation, alteration, maintenance, and repair of the items listed
in this subsection shall be performed under the provisions of this article
and the supervision and control of the Chief.



 



   1.   Central station signaling systems.



 



   2.   Fire protective signaling systems.



 



   3.   Appliances, equipment, and devices used for storing, handling,
processing, producing, transporting, or dispensing of hazardous materials.



 



   4.   Liquefied flammable gas cylinders, hose, vaporizers, heat
exchangers, pumps, and pertinent equipment.



 



   5.   Portable fire extinguishers.



 



   6.   Automatic fire extinguishing systems except automatic sprinkler
systems as set forth in Section 57.107.7.



 



   7.   Spray booths, spray tunnels, dip tanks, drying ovens, flow
coaters, powder coating apparatus and electrostatic painting equipment.



 



 



SEC. 57.107.7.2.  NON OPERATIONAL.



 



   If at any time the items listed in Sections 57.107.7 and 57.107.7.1 of
this section are not operational, the Chief shall have the authority to issue
notices to the owner of the building or premises where said items are
located, or such other person having control of said building or premises, to
make said items operational.



 



 



SEC. 57.107.7.2.1.  PERIODIC INSPECTIONS AND TESTS.



 



   The Chief has the authority to require that periodic inspections and
tests be made to determine whether the items listed in Sections 57.107.7 and
57.107.7.1 of this section, including any water supply, are operational. 
All such inspections and tests shall be made at intervals to be determined by
the Chief.  Tests at shorter intervals may be required when an inspection by
the Chief indicates there is a substantial reason to believe that the system
or device would fail to operate properly in an emergency.  The inspections
and test shall be made in accordance with the rules and regulations
established by the Board.



 



 



SEC. 57.107.7.3.  DEFECTIVE CONDITION.



 



   No person owning or having charge or control of any items listed in
Sections 57.107.7 and 57.107.7.1 of this section shall maintain said items in
defective condition or in a state of disrepair, or install or maintain such
in a manner that endangers life or creates a fire or explosion hazard.  No
person shall violate an order of the Chief to require periodic inspections as
required by Section 57.107.7.2.1.



 



 



SEC. 57.107.7.4.  PENALTIES AND MINIMUM FINES.



 



   Violation of Sections 57.107.7 through 57.107.7.3 shall be subject to
penalties and minimum fines as prescribed in Section 57.109.4.2 and Table
57.109.4.



 



 



SEC. 57.108.  BOARD OF APPEALS.



   (Repealed by Ord. No. 186,309, Eff. 10/21/19.)



 



 



SEC. 57.109.  VIOLATIONS.



 



   Section 109 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.109.3.1.1.  SERVICE OF NOTICES.



 



   Any notice authorized or required by this article shall be served in
the manner set forth in Section 11.00 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code,
except as provided in LosAngeles Administrative Code Sections 7.35.1 through
7.35.8.



 



 



SEC. 57.109.3.1.2.  POSTING OF ORDERS.



 



   All Orders to Correct issued pursuant to this chapter shall be posted
in a visible location in the residential rental building cited.



 



 



SEC. 57.109.4.2.  VIOLATION PENALTIES.



 



   Persons who shall violate a provision of this Code or shall fail to
comply with any of the requirements thereof, or who shall erect, install,
alter, repair, or do work in violation of the approved construction documents
or directive of the fire code official, or of a permit or certificate used
under provisions of this Code, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of this Code
in accordance with the mandatory minimums fines identified in Table 57.109.4
of this Code, punishable by a fine of not more than $1,000 or by imprisonment
not exceeding six months, or both such fine and imprisonment.  Each person
shall be guilty of a separate offense for each and every day, or portion
thereof, during which a violation of any provision of this section is
committed, continued, or permitted by such person and shall be punishable
accordingly.



 



TABLE 57.109.4
MISDEMEANOR MANDATORY MINIMUM TABLE



 



 

Minimum Fine
 
Offense
 
Sections Referenced
 
Fine Reference





$500.00

 

Authority to Install, Test, and Require Maintenance of Fire Protection
Systems and Equipment

 

57.107.7 through 57.107.7.3

 

57.107.7.4




$300.00

 

Vacant Premises

 

57.311.1 through 57.311.1.2



57.311.2 through 57.311.2.3



57.311.3



57.311.4

 

57.311.1.3



57.311.2.4



57.311.3.1



57.311.4.1




$500.00

 

Fire Due to Carelessness or Negligence

 

57.305.5.1.1 through 57.305.5.1.3

 

57.305.5.4




$100.00

 

Emergency planning and evacuation requirements for High-rise buildings

 

57.408

 

57.408.11.1




$200.00

 

Fire Protection Water Supplies

 

57.507.5.4.1 through 57.507.5.4.2

 

57.507.5.4.3




$200.00

 

Obstructions to roofs and openings

 

57.316.4.2

 

57.316.4.2.1




$150.00

 

Electrical Extension Cords

 

57.605.5 through 57.605.5.4

 

57.605.5.5




$150.00

 

Fire Assemblies

 

57.703.2.4 through 57.703.2.6



57.1031.3.1 through 57.1031.3.4

 

57.703.2.7



57.1031.3.5




$500.00

 

Fire Protection Systems Maintenance, Testing and Tampering

 

57.901.6, 57.901.8, 57.901.8.3

 

57.901.6.3



57.901.8.4




$100.00

 

Spare Sprinkler Heads

 

57.903.1.2

 

57.903.1.2.1




$100.00

 

Automatic Sprinkler Systems



Access Aisles and Operating Clearance

 

57.903.3.9

 

57.903.3.9.1




$100.00

 

Signs (Sprinkler & Standpipe)

 

57.903.3.11



57.903.3.12

 

57.903.3.11.1



57.903.3.12.1




$100.00

 

Security, Automatic sprinklers and standpipes

 

57.903.4.4

 

57.903.4.4.1




$100.00

 

Maintenance of Sprinkler Heads

 

57.903.5 through 57.903.5.4

 

57.903.5.5




$200.00

 

Portable Fire Extinguisher General Requirements Service



Installation and Use 

 

57.906.2 through 57.906.2.6

 

57.906.2.8




$100.00

 

Portable Fire Extinguisher General Requirements Service Required

 

57.906.2.7

 

57.906.2.7




$200.00

 

Smoke Alarms Requirement R Occupancies

 

57.907.2.8 through 57.907.2.11.4

 

57.907.2.8.4



57.907.2.9.5



57.907.2.10.4



57.907.2.11.9




$300.00

 

Maintenance of Fire Alarm Equipment

 

57.907.8.6

 

57.907.8.6.1




$500.00

 

Fire Watch

 

57.916.2 through 57.916.2.2

 

57.916.2.3




$200.00

 

Means of Egress Illumination

 

57.1006.1 through 57.1006.3

 

57.1006.4




$500.00

 

Exit Doors

 

57.1010.1.1, 57.1010.1.2, 57.1010.1.2.1, 57.1010.1.9, 57.1010.1.9.3, 57.1031.2

 

57.1010.1.11



57.1010.1.12



57.1031.2.1.1




$300.00

 

Locks on Penthouse Doors

 

57.1010.1.9.11.1

 

57.1010.1.12




$100.00

 

Exit Signs

 

57.1013.1.1

 

57.1013.1.1.1




$200.00

 

Floor Identification Signs

 

57.1023.9 through 57.1023.9.2

 

57.1023.9.3




$100.00

 

Fire Escapes Stairs

 

57.1104.17

 

57.1104.17.9




$200.00

 

Responsible Resident Required

 

57.4704.3

 

57.4704.3.4




$200.00

 

Posting Fire Safety Information

 

57.4704.4

 

57.4704.4.8




$100.00

 

Smoke Detector Maintenance

 

57.4704.5

 

57.4704.5.6




$100.00

 

Unvented Portable Heaters

 

57.4704.8

 

57.4704.8.1




$50.00

 

Portable Fire Extinguisher Required
(High-rise residential)

 

57.4705.5

 

57.4705.5.1





 



 



SEC. 57.109.5.  AUTHORITY TO CONDEMN.



 



   The Chief shall have the authority to condemn the use of any appliance,
device, equipment, system, or material regulated by this article which
creates a hazard to life or property, or which fails to provide the
protection for which it was intended.



 



 



SEC. 57.109.5.1.  AUTHORITY TO PROHIBIT.



 



   The Chief shall have the authority to prohibit the manufacture, sale,
or offering for sale, of any appliance, device, equipment, system or material
regulated by this article which may create a hazard to life or property, or
which fails to provide the protection for which it is intended.  No person
shall remove, alter, destroy, mutilate, or deface any condemnation tag
affixed to any appliance, device, equipment, system or material, pursuant to
the authority of the Chief, until such time as the hazardous condition is
corrected to the satisfaction of the Chief.



 



 



SEC. 57.110.  UNSAFE BUILDING.



 



   Section 110 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.111.  STOP WORK ORDER.



 



   Section 111 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.112.  SERVICE UTILITIES.



 



   Section 112 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.113.  FEES.



 



   Section 113 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.113.6.  PERMIT FEES.



 



   For permits required by Section 57.105.6 the fees shall be renewed and
collected in accordance with Sections 57.113.6.1 through 57.113.6.10.



 



 



SEC. 57.113.6.1.  DUE DATES – NEW AND RENEWAL.



 



   Due dates shall be established per Section 57.113.6.1.



 



   1.   Newly Established Business.  The annual permit fees required
by this chapter for any newly established business, operation, occupation, or
premises shall be due and payable on or before the close of business on the
first day such business, operation, occupation, or use of premises begins.



 



   2.   Renewal – Existing Permits. The annual permit renewal fees
required by this chapter for existing permits shall become due and payable
each year during the two months next preceding the 1st day of January of the
calendar year for which a permit is to be renewed.  Fees for churches and
service centers for armed forces personnel shall be paid upon original
application only and shall not be paid thereafter.



 



 



SEC. 57.113.6.2.  COLLECTION.



 



   All permit fees required by Section 57.105.6 shall be paid to and shall
be collected by the Office of Finance.  Upon receipt, the Office of Finance
shall deposit the fees with the City Treasurer.



 



 



SEC. 57.113.6.3.  MANNER OF DETERMINING COST FOR PERMITS.



 



   The cost of permits issued as required by Sections 57.105.6,
57.105.7.8, 57.105.9, 57.120.6 and 57.320.4.6 shall be determined as provided
in Section 57.115.



 



 



SEC. 57.113.6.3.1.  NEW SCHEDULE.



 



   The Board shall approve the collection of charges in accordance with
new schedules approved as provided in Section 57.115.



 



 



SEC. 57.113.6.3.2.  PROCEDURE FOR FEE CALCULATION.



 



   Those items to which the procedure for fee calculation applies include:



 



   1.   Aircraft Fueling Station, Section 57.105.6.1.



 



   2.   Aircraft Refueller, Section 57.105.6.2.



 



   3.   Airport Fueling System, Section 57.105.6.3.



 



   4.   Airport, Private, Section 57.105.6.4.



 



   5.   Assembly Occupancy, Section 57.105.6.5.



 



   6.   Atmospheric Above ground Tank, Section 57.105.6.6, exceeding
10,000 gallons capacity containing hazardous materials or hazardous waste.



 



   EXCEPTION:  Atmospheric above ground tanks that are associated with an
oil well.



 



   7.   Bulk Distributing Station, Section 57.105.6.7.



 



   8.   Central Station Signaling System, Section 57.105.6.8 to engage
in the business of providing an alarm service for fire protective signaling
systems.



 



   9.   Church (original fee only), Section 57.105.6.9.



 



   10.   Community Care Facility, Section 57.105.6.10.



 



   11.   Cylinder Filling Plant, Section 57.105.6.11.



 



   12.   Day Care, Section 57.105.6.12.



 



   13.   Dry Cleaning Plant, Section 57.105.6.13.



 



   14.   Hazardous Materials:  To store, process, or use materials
above ground of the type and in the amounts exceeding those set forth in
Table 57.105.6.14 or exceeding the permit amounts for hazardous materials in
Chapter 50.



 



   15.   Heliport, Section 57.105.6.15.



 



   16.   Hospital, Section 57.105.6.16.



 



   17.   Hotel, Section 57.105.6.17.



 



   (a)   Without place of assemblage.



 



   (b)   With one place of assemblage.



 



   (c)   With more than one place of assemblage.



 



   18.   Laboratory, Section 57.105.6.18.



 



   (a)   Class A - Any laboratory which used or processes hazardous
materials over the exempt amount allowed in Table 57.105.6.14.



 



   (b)   Class B - Any laboratory which used or processes hazardous
materials within the exempt amount allowed in Table 57.105.6.14.



 



   19.   Marine Oil Terminal, Section 57.105.6.19.



 



   20.   Marine Service Station, Section 57.105.6.20.



 



   21.   Natural Gasoline Plant, Section 57.105.6.21.



 



   22.   Oil Well, Section 57.105.6.22.



 



   23.   Refinery, Section 57.105.6.23.



 



   24.   Residential Care Facility, Section 57.105.6.24.



 



   25.   School, Section 57.105.6.25.



 



   26.   Service Center for Armed Forces Personnel (original fee only),
Section 57.105.6.26.



 



   27.   Special School, Section 57.105.6.27.



 



   28.   Surgical Center, Section 57.105.6.28.



 



   29.   Theater, Section 57.105.6.29.



 



   30.   Theater (Little), Section 57.105.6.30.



 



   31.   Theater (Motion Picture), Section 57.105.6.31.



 



   32.   Applications for permits as provided by Sections 57.105.7.8
and 57.320.4.6.



 



   33.   High-Rise permits issued as required by Section 57.105.9.



 



   34.   Unified Program Facility Permit Schedule as provided by
Section 57.120.6.



 



   35.   Carbon dioxide enrichment systems, Section 57.105.6.32. 
(Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   36.   Flammable and combustible liquids vehicle, Section
57.105.6.33.  (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   37.   Flammable and combustible liquids location, Section
57.105.6.34.  (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   38.   Plant extraction systems, Section 57.105.6.35.  (Added by
Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   39.   High-piled combustible storage, Section 57.105.6.36.  (Added
by Ord. No. 185,802, Eff. 12/1/18.)



 



 



SEC. 57.113.6.4.  PENALTY.



 



   1.   New Application Fee.  Whenever under the provisions of this
section an annual permit fee is required to be paid for any business
operation, occupation, or premises, and such fee is not paid on or before the
last day of the month following the month in which business, operation,
occupation, or premises was established and the fee became due, such fee
shall be delinquent and an additional sum equal to 50% of the fee so required
shall be imposed for delinquency.  Such additional sum shall become a part
of the fee required by this chapter.



 



   2.   Renewal Application Fee.  Whenever an annual permit renewal
fee is required to be paid and such fee is not paid during the two months
next preceding the 1st day of January of the calendar year for which the
permit is to be renewed, such fee shall be delinquent and an additional sum
equal to 50% of the fee so required shall be imposed for such delinquency. 
Such additional sum shall become a part of the fee required by this chapter.



 



   3.   The penalty or any part thereof may be waived by the Office of
Finance with the approval of the City Attorney.



 



 



SEC. 57.113.6.5.  MINOR ERRORS IN PAYMENT.



 



   In the event a discrepancy exists between the amount of the fee paid
and the amount of the fee due under this chapter resulting in an underpayment
or an overpayment of the fee in the amount of $2.00 or less, the Office of
Finance may accept and recommend such underpayment or overpayment without
other notification to the permittee.



 



 



SEC. 57.113.6.6.  PAYMENT OR OTHER COMMUNICATION MADE BY MAIL.



 



   Whenever any payment, statement, report, or other communication
received by the Office of Finance is received after the time prescribed by
this chapter for the receipt thereof, but is in an envelope bearing the
postmark showing that it was mailed prior to the time prescribed in this
chapter for the receipt thereof, or whenever the Office of Finance is
furnished substantial proof that the payment, statement, report, request, or
other communication was, in fact, deposited in the United States mail prior
to the time prescribed for receipt thereof, the Office of Finance shall
regard such payment, statement, report, request, or other communication as
having been received on time.



 



 



SEC. 57.113.6.7.  FEE EXEMPT PERMITS.



 



   Upon application, Fee Exempt Permits shall be issued without the
payment of the fees as prescribed by Section 11.08 of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code.



 



 



SEC. 57.113.6.8.  CHARGE FOR DUPLICATE PERMITS.



 



   Duplicate permits may be issued by the Office of Finance to replace any
previously issued permit which has been lost or destroyed upon filing an
affidavit by the holder of the permit or authorized representative attesting
to such fact and upon paying to the Office of Finance of a fee of $10.00
therefor.



 



 



SEC. 57.113.6.9.  REFUNDS.



 



   Investigation Fees, Overpayments, Duplicate Payment.  Any refunds of
fees collected under the provisions of this section shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Sections 22.12 and 22.13 of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code.



 



 



SEC. 57.113.6.10.  INSPECTION RIGHT. OFFICE OF FINANCE.



 



   The Office of Finance shall have the power and authority to enter, free
of charge, during business hours, any premises or place of business which
requires a permit under the provisions of this chapter, and to demand
exhibition of a permit and evidence of amount of fee paid.  Any person
having any permit issued in his or her possession or under his or her control
who fails to exhibit the same and evidence of amounts of fees paid on demand,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.



 



 



SEC. 57.114.  FEES FOR SERVICES NOT REQUIRING A PERMIT.



 



 



SEC. 57.114.1.  MANNER OF DETERMINING COST FOR NON-PERMIT SERVICES.



 



   The cost of services as required by this article not requiring permits
shall be determined as provided in Section 57.115.



 



 



SEC. 57.114.1.1.  PROCEDURE FOR FEE CALCULATION.



 



   Those items to which this procedure applies include:



 



   1.   Hazardous vegetation fees, as provided by Sections 57.322.2 and
57.322.2.1.



 



   2.   Certificates of Fitness, as provided by Section 57.117.10 of
this article.



 



   3.   Variances, as provided by Section 57.104.17 of this article.



 



   4.   Rate for four hours, or fraction of four hours, investigations
and tests required, as provided in Section 57.104.9.2 of this article.



 



   5.   Assignment of a fire safety officer, as provided by Section
57.104.18 of this article.



 



   6.   Applications for general approval, as provided by Section
57.119.8 of this Article.



 



   7.   Emergency inspections, as provided by Section 57.105.7.9.



 



   8.   Pre-inspection fees, as provided by Sections 57.4702.5 and
57.4703.7.1.



 



   9.   Final Inspection of a residential care facility, as provided in
Section 57.4703.7.2.



 



   10.   Fees for hydrant and access review and plan check, as provided
in Section 57.116.1.



 



 



SEC. 57.114.1.2.  NEW SCHEDULE.



 



   The Board shall collect charges in accordance with new schedules
approved as provided in Section 57.115.



 



 



SEC. 57.114.1.3.  REFUNDS.



 



   Investigation Fees, Overpayments, Duplicate Payment.  Any refunds of
fees collected under the provisions of this section shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Sections 22.12 and 22.13 of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code.



 



 



SEC. 57.114.2.  COLLECTION OF FEES.



 



   The Department shall collect the fees required by this section therefor
established by the most current cost recovery schedule published, as provided
by Section 57.115 and applicable thereto.  Upon payment of said fees the
Department shall cause them to be deposited with the City Treasurer.



 



 



SEC. 57.115.  MANNER OF DETERMINING COST.



 



 



SEC. 57.115.1.  DETERMINING COST.



 



   The Board, with the concurrence of the City Administrative Officer,
shall determine on a regular basis the verifiable costs of the City for the
items set forth in this article.  These costs shall be the actual total
costs incurred, including all applicable indirect costs, as determined by the
Board.  The Board shall use those costs to develop a cost recovery schedule
of applicable charges necessary to recover City costs.  The Board shall
adopt these costs as fees at any time during each fiscal year.  The cost
recovery schedule shall be based upon verifiable costs for an activity or
issuing a permit in connection with any activity.  The cost calculation
shall include inspection costs, labor, retirement costs on direct labor and
departmental and general City overhead applicable to the issuance of a permit
or activity.  It shall take into consideration the number of permits issued
and affected by the permit charges within the period of time used for
reference in development of the charges.  Upon adoption of a schedule of
verified costs by the Board as provided in this section, the Board shall
transmit the Board order to the Mayor and to the City Council.  Fee
calculation shall include Sections 57.113.6.3.2 and 57.114.1.1.



 



 



SEC. 57.115.1.1.  MANNER OF APPROVAL OF SCHEDULE.



 



   Upon Council approval of the proposed fee schedule, the Board order and
the Board’s proposed fee schedule shall be published in a daily newspaper
in the same manner as ordinances of the City are published pursuant to
Charter Section 251.  If the Council recommends that the proposed schedule
be amended to increase or decrease any of the fees, those items shall not
become operative.  The fees as to those items on the proposed schedule,
which have been disapproved or recommended for change, shall not change
during the ensuing fiscal year under the Board order. However, those
remaining fees not disapproved or recommended for amendment, which are
amended by the Council, shall become effective.



 



 



SEC. 57.115.1.2.  NEW SCHEDULE.



 



   The Board shall approve the collection of charges in accordance with
new schedules approved as provided in this article.



 



 



SEC. 57.116.  FEES FOR HYDRANT AND ACCESS REVIEW AND INSPECTION.



 



 



SEC. 57.116.1.  COLLECTION OF FEES.



 



   Before performing any services required by Sections 57.116.1.1 through
57.116.1.7, the Fire Department shall collect fees established by the most
current cost recovery schedule published by the Fire Department and
applicable thereto.



 



 



SEC. 57.116.1.1.  FIRE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT RESEARCH AND REVIEW FEE.



 



   The Fire Environmental Impact Report Research and Review Fee is for
research and review within the scope of Section 57.501.1.1.  The fee
includes plan research and review of a minimum of one hour of an
inspector’s research and review.  The fee shall be based on the
inspector’s hourly rate, with a one-hour minimum.



 



 



SEC. 57.116.1.2.  FIRE DEPARTMENT ACCESS PLAN REVIEW FEE.



 



   The Fire Department Access Plan Review Fee is for reviews within the
scope of Sections 57.503.1 through 57.503.1.6.  The fee shall be based on
the inspector’s hourly rate, with a one-hour minimum.



 



 



SEC. 57.116.1.3.  FIRE DEPARTMENT ACCESS FIELD INSPECTION FEE.



 



   The Fire Department Access Field Inspection Fee is for inspections
within the scope of Sections 57.503.1 through 57.503.1.6.  The fee shall be
based on the inspector’s hourly rate, with a two-hour minimum.



 



 



SEC. 57.116.1.4.  HYDRANT PLAN REVIEW FEE.



 



   The Hydrant Plan Review Fee is for reviews within the scope of Section
57.507.3.  The fee shall be based on the inspector’s hourly rate, with a
one-hour minimum.



 



 



SEC. 57.116.1.5.  FIRE HYDRANT FIELD INSPECTION AND/OR TEST FEE.



 



   The Fire Hydrant Field Inspection and/or Test Fee are for inspections
and/or tests within the scope of Section 57.507.3.  The fee shall be based
on the inspector’s hourly rate, with a two-hour minimum.



 



 



SEC. 57.116.1.6.  ADDITIONAL PLAN REVIEW, INSPECTION OR RE-INSPECTION FEE.



 



   The Additional Plan Review, Inspection or Re-Inspection Fee is for
additional inspections beyond the initial inspection minimum time
increments.  These additional fees will be based on minimum one-hour
increments.



 



 



SEC. 57.116.1.7.  EXPEDITE OR OFF-HOUR FEES.



 



   The Expedite or Off-Hour Activities Fee applies to fire services
related to access, fire hydrants, and fire flow project where the plan review
and/or inspection is to be expedited to occur at the earliest possible time,
which may include off-hour time.  Off-hour time is any time outside of
normal business hours of the City.  The fee shall be based on the
inspector’s expedite/off-hour rate, with a four-hour minimum.  Such fee
shall be paid to the Fire Department prior to final clearance approval by the
Department.



 



 



SEC. 57.117.  CERTIFICATES OF FITNESS.



 



 



SEC. 57.117.1.  CERTIFICATES OF FITNESS REQUIRED.



 



   No person shall, without a valid Certificate of Fitness as required by
this article, conduct any of the operations stated in Sections 57.117.1.1
through 57.117.1.6.



 



 



SEC. 57.117.1.1.  CERTIFICATE REQUIRED TO CONDUCT ANY BLASTING OPERATION.



 



   No person shall, without a valid Certificate of Fitness as required by
this article, conduct any blasting operation.



 



 



SEC. 57.117.1.2.  CERTIFICATE REQUIRED TO CONDUCT TESTING.



 



   No person shall, without a valid Certificate of Fitness as required by
this article, conduct any test or certify the following fire protection
equipment or systems:



 



   1.   Automatic sprinkler systems.



 



   2.   Class I standpipe systems.



 



   3.   Class II standpipe systems.



 



   4.   Class III standpipe systems.



 



   5.   Combined standpipe systems.



 



   6.   Automatic elevators.



 



   7.   Automatic fire assemblies.



 



   8.   Emergency power systems (generators and battery systems).



 



   9.   Fire escapes.



 



   10.   Fire protective signaling systems (alarm, notification, and
communication systems).



 



   11.   Fire pumps.



 



   12.   Smoke control systems.



 



   EXCEPTIONS:



 



   1.   The Chief may allow persons who are employees of the firm or
corporation where the fire protection equipment or systems are to be tested
to perform required tests provided such tests are performed in accordance
with Regulation No. 4, “Testing of Fire Protection Equipment.”



 



   2.   Members of the Department of Building and Safety.



 



   3.   Uniformed members of the Fire Department.



 



 



SEC. 57.117.1.3.  CERTIFICATE REQUIRED TO PERFORM AS A FIRE SAFETY OFFICER.



 



   No person other than a uniformed member of the Fire Department assigned
to the Bureau of Fire Prevention and Public Safety shall, without a valid
Certificate of Fitness as required by this article, perform as a Fire Safety
Officer.



 



 



SEC. 57.117.1.4.  CERTIFICATE REQUIRED TO PERFORM AS A HEALTH CARE FACILITY
INSTRUCTOR.



 



   No person shall, without a valid Certificate of Fitness as required by
this article, perform as a health care facility instructor.



 



 



SEC. 57.117.1.5.  CERTIFICATE REQUIRED TO PERFORM AS A HIGH-RISE LIFE/SAFETY
SERVICE.



 



   No person shall, without a valid certificate of fitness as required by
this article, perform as a high-rise life/safety service.



 



 



SEC. 57.117.1.6.  CERTIFICATE REQUIRED TO CONDUCT TESTING OF GAS DETECTION
SYSTEM.



 



   No person shall, without a valid certificate of fitness as required by
this article, conduct any test or certify any gas detection system.



 



 



SEC. 57.117.2.  CERTIFICATES OF FITNESS – APPLICATIONS.



 



   All applications for Certificates of Fitness shall be filed in the
office of the Bureau of Fire Prevention and Public Safety upon forms provided
by the Fire Department.



 



 



SEC. 57.117.2.1.  INFORMATION REQUIRED.



 



   Information required for Certificates of Fitness shall include the
specific information required in Sections 57.117.2.1.1 through 57.117.2.1.5.



 



 



SEC. 57.117.2.1.1.  BLASTING OPERATIONS.



 



   Applicants for a Certificate of Fitness to conduct blasting operations
shall furnish such information as may be required by the Chief to establish
competency with and adequate knowledge of explosive materials, equipment,
techniques, and safety precautions necessary to conduct safe blasting
operations.



 



 



SEC. 57.117.2.1.2.  REGULATION NO. 4.



 



   Applicants for a Certificate of Fitness to conduct any test as
specified in Regulation No. 4 shall furnish such information as may be
required by the Chief to establish competency with and knowledge of the
materials, formulas, equipment, techniques, standards, ordinances, and
recognized good practices pertaining to the Certificate of Fitness for which
they are applying.



 



 



SEC. 57.117.2.1.3.  FIRE SAFETY OFFICER.



 



   Applicants for a Certificate of Fitness to perform as a Fire Safety
Officer shall furnish such information as may be required by the Chief to
establish familiarity with, and possession of a thorough knowledge of
applicable fire prevention procedures, the Los Angeles Fire Code, State Fire
Marshal’s Rules and Regulations as contained in Title 19 of the California
Code of Regulations, and other applicable regulations dealing with fire,
explosion, and life safety.



 



 



SEC. 57.117.2.1.4.  HEALTH CARE FACILITY INSTRUCTOR.



 



   Applicants for a Certificate of Fitness to perform as a health care
facility instructor shall furnish such information as may be required by the
Chief to establish the possession of a thorough knowledge of the health care
facility requirements contained in the Los Angeles Fire Code, the California
Code of Regulations, and the California Health and Safety Code, and the
necessary qualifications to instruct others in health care facility
requirements.



 



 



SEC. 57.117.2.1.5.  HIGH-RISE LIFE/SAFETY SERVICE.



 



   Applicants for a Certificate of Fitness to perform as a high-rise
life/safety service shall furnish such information as may be required by the
Chief to establish qualification to instruct and possession of a thorough
knowledge of the Los Angeles Fire Code and other applicable regulations with
regard to developing and/or conducting training in emergency planning,
evacuation procedures, and the use of first-aid fire equipment in high-rise
buildings in the City of Los Angeles.



 



 



SEC. 57.117.3.  CERTIFICATES OF FITNESS – VALIDITY.



 



   Certificates of Fitness shall be valid only for the person designated
on the certificate.



 



 



SEC. 57.117.3.1.  CERTIFICATES OF FITNESS – VALID.



 



   Every Certificate of Fitness issued in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter shall be valid for a period of three years from the date of
issuance, and may be renewed for additional three-year periods at the
discretion of the Chief as set forth below.



 



 



SEC. 57.117.3.2.  CERTIFICATES OF FITNESS – RENEWAL.



 



   Applications for renewal of a Certificate of Fitness shall be filed in
the same manner as for an original certificate of fitness.



 



 



SEC. 57.117.3.2.1.  RENEWAL FEE.



 



   Applications shall be accompanied by a renewal fee.  Whenever the
application for renewal is filed prior to the expiration date of the
Certificate of Fitness, the renewal fee shall be 50% of the fee for a new
Certificate of Fitness.  Whenever the application for renewal is filed after
the expiration date of the Certificate of Fitness, the renewal fee shall be
the same as for a new Certificate of Fitness.



 



 



SEC. 57.117.3.2.2.  GRANTING OF A RENEWAL.



 



   The granting of a renewal of a Certificate of Fitness shall be
processed in the same manner as for an original Certificate of Fitness.



 



 



SEC. 57.117.4.  CERTIFICATES OF FITNESS – INVESTIGATION AND EXAMINATION.



 



   The Chief shall examine each applicant for competence to perform the
duties required for the particular Certificate of Fitness for which they have
applied.  The applicant shall:



 



   1.   Submit a written resume stating experience and training
qualifications.



 



   2.   When required, appear before the Chief for a personal interview.



 



   3.   When required, satisfactorily complete a written and/or
practical test pertaining to the Certificate of Fitness.



 



 



SEC. 57.117.4.1.  ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.



 



   The Chief may require additional information as necessary to process
any application for a Certificate of Fitness.



 



 



SEC. 57.117.4.2.  ISSUANCE.



 



   When the Chief determines the applicant for a Certificate of Fitness
conforms to all the requirements of this article, the Chief shall issue the
Certificate of Fitness.



 



 



SEC. 57.117.5.  CERTIFICATES OF FITNESS – REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.



 



   The Chief shall have the power to suspend or revoke any Certificate of
Fitness in accordance with the provisions of Section 57.105.5 of this article.



 



 



SEC. 57.117.6.  CERTIFICATES OF FITNESS – CHANGE OF ADDRESS.



 



   Each person holding a Certificate of Fitness shall notify the
Department in writing of any change of his business, residential, or
notification address within ten days after such change.  Failure on the part
of said person to give such notification shall constitute grounds for
revocation of said certificate.



 



 



SEC. 57.117.7.  CERTIFICATES OF FITNESS – FORM.



 



   The Certificate of Fitness issued by the Chief shall be in the form of
an identification card which shall:



 



   1.   State the purpose for which it has been issued;



 



   2.   State the date it is issued and the date of expiration;



 



   3.   Contain such information as may be necessary to identify the
person to whom it is issued;



 



   4.   Have affixed one print of a photograph of the person to whom it
is issued;



 



   5.   Have the signature of the person to whom it is issued;



 



   6.   Have the signature of the Fire Marshal;



 



   7.   Have printed thereon in bold type the following:  “THIS
CERTIFICATE IDENTIFIES, BUT DOES NOT RECOMMEND THE BEARER:”; and



 



   8.   Contain additional information which the Chief considers
necessary and proper to effect the purpose of this article.



 



 



SEC. 57.117.8.  CERTIFICATES OF FITNESS – DUTY TO DISPLAY.



 



   Any person having been certified as required by this article shall,
upon request, display their identification and Certificate of Fitness to any
person to whom they may seek to render service or to the Chief.



 



 



SEC. 57.117.9.  CERTIFICATES OF FITNESS – FAILURE OF THE EXAMINATION.



 



   Any applicant who takes the examination and fails may not re-apply
within 30 days, and in no event shall the examination be given to the same
person more than twice in any one-year period.



 



 



SEC. 57.117.10.  FEES.



 



   Before accepting an application for a Certificate of Fitness required
by this chapter, the Department shall collect the fees required therefor as
set forth in the most current cost recovery schedule published, as provided
by Section 57.114 and applicable thereto.



 



   1.   Conduct blasting operations.



 



   2.   Conduct any test or certify the following categories of fire
protection equipment, systems, or devices:



 



   (a)   Automatic sprinkler systems.



 



   (b)   Class I standpipe systems.



 



   (c)   Class II standpipe systems.



 



   (d)   Class III standpipe systems.



 



   (e)   Combined standpipe systems.



 



   (f)   Automatic elevators.



 



   (g)   Automatic fire assemblies.



 



   (h)   Emergency power systems (generators and battery systems).



 



   (i)   Fire escapes.



 



   (j)   Fire protective signaling systems (alarm, notification, and
communication systems).



 



   (k)   Fire pumps.



 



   (l)   Smoke control systems.



 



   (m)   Methane Gas Detection.



 



   (n)   Fire Safety Officer.



 



   (o)   Health Care Facility Instructor.



 



   (p)   High-Rise Life/Safety Service.



 



 



SEC. 57.117.10.1.  SECOND EXAMINATION.



 



   Whenever an applicant fails an examination and takes a second
examination within 90 days of such failure, the fee for the second
examination shall be 50% of the fees set forth in Section 57.117.10 of this
section.



 



 



SEC. 57.118.  NEW CONSTRUCTION PLAN REVIEW AND INSPECTION.



 



 



SEC. 57.118.1.  GENERAL.



 



   This section sets forth the services of the Los Angeles Fire Department
(“Fire Department”) to perform fire/life safety plan review and fire/life
safety inspection for certain projects as specified below in the definitions,
and to collect the fees for those services, including fees for expediting the
services.  The goal of these fees is to recover the Fire Department’s
costs in performing the fire/life safety plan review and fire/life safety
inspection services.  The Department of Building and Safety (“Building and
Safety”) is given the authority to collect the fees for the Fire Department.



 



 



SEC. 57.118.1.1.  FIRE/LIFE SAFETY REVIEW.



 



   Review plans for new construction, addition, tenant improvement, and
change of use to the following construction projects as determined by the
Department of Building and Safety and Fire Department:



 



   (a)   R-1, with three or more stories, or 20 or more guest rooms.



 



   (b)   R-2 occupancies, with three or more stories, or 16 or more
dwelling units.



 



   (c)   High-rise buildings with human occupancy at 75 feet or higher,
as measured from occupied floor or occupied roof elevation above the lowest
level of Fire Department vehicle access.



 



   (d)   Covered malls.



 



   (e)   Buildings housing “A,” “E,” “I” and “H” with
highly toxic materials occupancies according to the Building Code, R-2.1.



 



   (f)   Airport buildings.



 



   (g)   Fire alarms.



 



   (h)   High-piled combustible storage.  (Added by Ord. No. 185,802,
Eff. 12/1/18.)



 



 



SEC. 57.118.1.2.  ADDITIONAL INSPECTION AND RE-INSPECTION.



 



   Additional fire/life safety inspection and re-inspection for projects
defined in Section 57.118.1.1 by the Fire Department, beyond the initial
field inspection covered under fire/life safety plan review.  The additional
inspection or re-inspection may be required by the Fire Department or
requested by the client, as referenced in Section 57.118.1.



 



 



SEC. 57.118.1.3.  EXPEDITE.



 



   A request by an applicant to the Fire Department to complete the
fire/life safety plan review and/or inspection for projects defined in
Section 57.118.1.1 at the earliest possible time.  It may include a request
for Fire Department personnel to work overtime to complete a field inspection.



 



 



SEC. 57.118.1.4.  OFF-HOUR, FIRE/LIFE SAFETY PLAN REVIEW AND/OR INSPECTION.



 



   A request by a client to the Fire Department to complete a fire/life
safety plan review and/or an inspection during off- hours for projects
defined in Section 57.118.1.1.



 



 



SEC. 57.118.2.  FEES.



 



   Before accepting an application for any services or any permit required
by Sections 57.118.2.1 through 57.118.2.3, the Fire Department shall collect
the fees established by the most current cost recovery schedule published, as
provided by Section 57.113.6.3 and applicable thereto.



 



 



SEC. 57.118.2.1.  FIRE/LIFE SAFETY PLAN REVIEW FEE.



 



   The Fire/Life Safety Plan Review Fee is for projects described in
Section 57.118.1.1.  The fee includes plan review and up to two hours of
initial field inspection.  The fee shall be computed at the inspector’s
hourly rate, for a minimum of three hours, or 0.111% of the project
valuation, whichever is higher.  The project valuation is to be determined
by Building and Safety.  No additional fee shall be charged for verification
of the corrections required by the Fire Department.  However, when plans are
revised by the applicant for reasons other than plan review correction and
require additional time to review the plan revisions, the Fire Department
shall collect an additional fee.



 



 



SEC. 57.118.2.2.  INSPECTION AND RE-INSPECTION FEE.



 



   The Additional Field Inspection and Re-Inspection Fee is for fire/life
safety review projects described in Section 118.1.1.  The fee shall be based
on the inspector’s hourly rate, with a one-hour minimum.  The additional
inspection and re-inspection fees are incurred beyond the initial field
inspection covered under the fire/life safety plan review fee.  Additional
fees are applicable for any additional inspections beyond the initial field
inspection or when the length of the initial inspection exceeds two hours.



 



 



SEC. 57.118.2.3.  EXPEDITE OR OFF-HOUR FIRE/LIFE SAFETY PLAN REVIEW AND/OR
INSPECTION FEE.



 



   The Expedite or Off-Hour Fire/Life Safety Plan Review and Inspection
Fee applies to projects described in Section 57.118.1.1, where the plan
review and/or inspection is to be expedited to occur at the earliest possible
time, which may include off-hour time. Off-hour time is any time outside of
normal business hours of the City. The fee shall be based on the inspector
expedite/off-hour rate, with a minimum of four hours, and per hour thereafter.



 



 



SEC. 57.118.3.  ANNUAL REVIEW.



 



   The Board, with the concurrence of the City Administrative Officer,
shall review the fees on an annual basis and determine the verifiable costs
to the City for the issuance of construction plan check and inspection
permits in connection with the activities of this chapter.  The costs shall
be the actual total costs incurred, including all applicable indirect costs,
as determined by the Board.  The Board shall use said costs to develop or to
amend the most current cost recovery fee schedule, so as to recover City
costs associated with the permit issuance activities of this section.  The
Board may adopt or amend the most current recovery fee schedule at any time
during the fiscal year.



 



   Upon adoption of the fee schedule or any amendment thereto, the Board
shall transmit the Board order to the Mayor and City Council for
consideration and approval.



 



 



SEC. 57.118.3.1.  REVIEW OF FEES.



 



   The Board of Fire Commissioners, with the concurrence of the City
Administrative Officer, shall review the fees on an annual basis and
determine the verifiable costs of the City as set forth in this section.



 



 



SEC. 57.118.4.  SURCHARGE FOR DEVELOPMENT SERVICES CENTERS.



 



   There shall be added to each fee imposed for any permit, license or
application provided for in Sections 57.118.4 through 57.118.4.3 of this
article, a surcharge in an amount equal to the greater of 3% of the fee or $1.



 



 



SEC. 57.118.4.1.  DEVELOPMENT SERVICES CENTERS.



 



   The revenue from two-thirds of the surcharge shall be used to provide
for the cost of establishing and operation of the development services
centers.



 



 



SEC. 57.118.4.2.  BUILDLA SURCHARGE.



 



   The revenue from one-third of the surcharge shall be used solely to pay
for the $21.76 million cost of developing and implementing BuildLA, a
comprehensive enterprise-wide development services system, and shall not be
used to pay for ongoing BuildLA costs such as maintenance or system hosting
services.



 



 



SEC. 57.118.4.3.  STOPPAGE OF BUILDLA SURCHARGE.



 



   The surcharge shall be returned to the greater of 2% or $1, revenue
allocation to BuildLA shall stop, and all surcharge revenue shall be
allocated to the Development Services Centers when the City Administrative
Officer determines that the BuildLA allocation has recovered the $21.76
million cost of BuildLA.



 



 



SEC. 57.119.  GENERAL APPROVALS.



 



 



SEC. 57.119.1.  GENERAL.



 



   The provisions of this section shall apply to general approvals which
constitute approval of the type, design, and construction of any appliance,
device, equipment, or system listed in Sections 57.119.3 and 57.119.3.2 of
this chapter.



 



 



SEC. 57.119.2.  APPLICATIONS.



 



   Every application for a general approval shall be filed at the office
of the Bureau of Fire Prevention and Public Safety upon forms provided by the
Fire Department.



 



 



SEC. 57.119.2.1.  APPLICATION FEES.



 



   Every application for a general approval shall be accompanied by the
required fees, as set forth in this chapter.



 



 



SEC. 57.119.2.2.  PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.



 



   Plans and specifications for a general approval required by this Code
shall be made in compliance with Sections 57.105.2 through 57.105.4 the same
as stated for permits.



 



 



SEC. 57.119.3.  GENERAL APPROVALS WHERE REQUIRED.



 



   No person shall construct, sell, offer for sale, or advertise for use
in the City or install, operate, maintain, or use any appliance, device,
equipment, system, or material listed in this section unless a general
approval for the type, design, construction, formulation, and/or method of
application has been granted by the Chief:



 



   1.   Fire hydrant.



 



   2.   Candle device for a place of assemblage other than the
sanctuary of a church.



 



   3.   Roofing kettle over 15 gallon capacity.



 



   4.   Automatic or self-closing shutoff valves or internal valves
hazardous materials.



 



   5.   Automatic or self-closing dispensing nozzles for hazardous
materials.



 



   6.   Vaporizers or mixers for liquefied gases.



 



   7.   Portable tank or portable shipping tank.



 



   8.   Cargo tank of a tank vehicle.



 



   9.   Internal valve or dome cover for cargo tank if approved
separately from tank vehicle.



 



   10.   Hydrant cart for aircraft refueling.



 



   11.   Paint coating, or other surface finish, which purports to
reduce or eliminate combustible characteristics of furnishings or structures
unless regulated by Title 19 of the California Code of Regulations or by
Chapter 9 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code (Building Code).



 



 



SEC. 57.119.3.1.  EXEMPTIONS.



 



   The Chief may exempt from the requirements of Section 57.119.3 of this
section any appliance, device, equipment, material or system which is
approved, listed, or labeled by an approved testing laboratory, provided that
such appliance, device, equipment, material or system is applied, installed,
operated, used, and maintained in conformance with the requirements of this
article.  Exemptions hereby granted do not include exemption from the fee
requirements as set for in Section 57.119.8 of this article.



 



 



SEC. 57.119.3.2.  OPTIONAL.



 



   The Department may grant a general approval for the type, design, and
construction of any appliance, device, equipment, or system which is listed
in this subsection.  This does not waive the requirements for a permit for
each individual installation:



 



   1.   Atmospheric tank.



 



   2.   Low pressure tank.



 



   3.   Special vessel.



 



   4.   Spray booth or spray tunnel with any dimension greater than 3
feet.



 



   5.   Dip tank, more than 150 gallon capacity or more than 5 square
feet of surface area.



 



   6.   Flow coat machine.



 



   7.   Drying oven.



 



   8.   Industrial oven or furnace not otherwise specified.



 



   9.   Industrial processing equipment not otherwise specified.



 



   10.   Automatic fire extinguishing system except automatic sprinkler
system.



 



 



SEC. 57.119.3.3.  RECORD.



 



   A record of general approvals and exceptions which may be granted in
accordance with the provisions of this section shall be maintained by the
Chief.  Such record shall be available for public inspection at the office
of the Bureau of Fire Prevention and Public Safety.



 



 



SEC. 57.119.4.  GRANTING OF GENERAL APPROVALS.



 



   The Chief shall investigate every application for a general approval. 
Such investigation shall be made by authorized members of the Fire
Department.  The Fire Department approval of the application may be made
subject to such terms and conditions as may be necessary for the safeguarding
of life and property from the hazards of fire, explosion, or panic.



 



 



SEC. 57.119.4.1.  ADDITIONAL INFORMATION OR TESTS.



 



   The Chief may require such additional information or tests as may be
necessary to carry out the investigation of the application for a general
approval.  Any test that may be required shall be made at the applicant’s
own expense.



 



 



SEC. 57.119.4.2.  APPROVAL OF THE APPLICATION.



 



   If, after investigation and consideration of any application and the
plans and specifications in connection therewith, it shall be determined that
the type, design, and construction of the appliance, device, equipment, or
system will not create any undue fire hazard and that it will conform to the
provisions of this article and of other relevant laws, the Chief shall
approve the application.  The Fire Department shall thereupon grant the
general approval.



 



 



SEC. 57.119.5.  L.A.F.D. LABEL.



 



   Every appliance, device, equipment, or system for which a general
approval has been granted shall have attached thereto a metal label, or other
approved means of identification, containing the following information:



 



   1.   The name of the manufacturer thereof.



 



   2.   The letters “L.A.F.D.” together with the general approval
number.



 



   3.   If a tank or container, the gauge of thickness of metal of
which it is constructed and the capacity thereof in gallons.



 



   4.   Such other information as may be required as a condition of the
general approval.



 



 



SEC. 57.119.6.  GENERAL APPROVALS – EXPIRATION.



 



   Every general approval granted in accordance with the provisions of
this section shall be valid for a period of three years after the date of
granting, and may be renewed for additional three-year periods.



 



 



SEC. 57.119.6.1.  CONTINUED OPERATION OR USE.



 



   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed as prohibiting the
continued operation or use of any appliance, device, equipment or system for
which a valid L.A.F.D. label has been issued under the authority of Section
57.119.5 of this section.



 



 



SEC. 57.119.7.  GENERAL APPROVALS – RENEWAL.



 



   Applications for renewal of a general approval shall be filed in the
same manner as for an original general approval, except that plans and
specifications are not required.



 



 



SEC. 57.119.7.1.  RENEWAL FEE.



 



   Each application shall be accompanied by a renewal fee.  Whenever the
application for renewal is filed prior to the expiration date of the general
approval, the renewal fee shall be 50% of the fee set forth in Section
57.119.8 of this article. Whenever the application for renewal is filed after
the expiration date of the general approval, the renewal fee shall be the fee
set forth in Section 57.119.8 of this article.



 



 



SEC. 57.119.7.2.  GRANTING OF A RENEWAL.



 



   The granting of a renewal of a general approval shall be handled in the
same manner as for an original general approval.



 



 



SEC. 57.119.8.  FEES.



 



   Before accepting an application for any of the following general
approvals required by this chapter, the Department shall collect the fees
required therefor established by the most current cost recovery schedule
published, as provided by Section 57.114 and applicable thereto.



 



 



SEC. 57.119.8.1.  GENERAL APPROVAL REQUIRED.



 



   A general approval shall be required for the following devices:



 



   1.   Fire hydrant.



 



   2.   Candle device for place of assemblage.



 



   3.   Roofing kettle, over 15 gallon capacity.



 



   4.   Automatic or self-closing shutoff valve for hazardous materials.



 



   5.   Automatic or self-closing nozzle for hazardous materials.



 



   6.   Vaporizer or mixer for liquefied gases.



 



   7.   Portable tank or portable shipping tank.



 



   8.   Cargo tank of a tank vehicle.



 



   9.   Internal valve, vent, or dome cover for cargo tank.



 



   10.   Hydrant cart for aircraft refueling.



 



   11.   Paint, coating, or other surface finish.



 



 



SEC. 57.119.8.2.  GENERAL APPROVAL OPTIONAL.



 



   A general approval shall be optional for the following devices:



 



   1.   Atmospheric tank.



 



   2.   Low pressure tank.



 



   3.   Special vessel.



 



   4.   Gas holder.



 



   5.   Spray booth or spray tunnel with any dimension greater than 3
feet.



 



   6.   Dip tank with more than 150 gallon capacity or more than 5
square feet of surface area.



 



   7.   Flow coat machine.



 



   8.   Drying oven.



 



   9.   Industrial oven or furnace not otherwise specified.



 



   10.   Industrial proceeding equipment not otherwise specified.



 



   11.   Automatic fire extinguishing system except automatic sprinkler
system.



 



 



SEC. 57.119.8.3.  CHARGES FOR ADDITIONAL HOURS.



 



   When the length of time spent in investigating an application for a
general approval is such that the charge for hours spent, as computed in
accordance with the cost recovery schedule established under Section 57.114,
exceeds the schedule fee established for that particular type of approval,
the charge as computed pursuant to Section 57.114 shall be paid to the Fire
Department before any general approval is issued.



 



 



SEC. 57.119.8.4.  FEE EXEMPT GENERAL APPROVALS.



 



   Fee exempt general approvals without the payment of the fees prescribed
pursuant to Section 57.114 shall be issued to the following: City of Los
Angeles, County of Los Angeles, Los Angeles City School Districts, Los
Angeles Community College District or any municipal corporation, department,
or office thereof.



 



 



SEC. 57.119.9.  GENERAL APPROVALS – REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.



 



   The Chief may suspend or revoke any general approval if it is found
that the material or method of construction is not in compliance with any of
the conditions upon which it is based, or is not a quality or workmanship
equivalent to that required by the Municipal Code, or for any of the reasons
set forth in Section 57.105.5 of this chapter.



 



 



SEC. 57.120.  UNIFIED PROGRAM FACILITY PERMIT.



 



 



SEC. 57.120.1.  GENERAL.



 



   This section sets forth the requirements concerning the “Unified
Hazardous Waste and Hazardous Materials Regulatory Management Program
Consolidated Permit” (Unified Program Facility Permit), issued pursuant to
Chapter 6.11 of Division 20 of the California Health and Safety Code, for
businesses located in the City of Los Angeles.  Businesses subject to any
one or more of the hazardous waste and hazardous materials programs defined
in Sections 57.120.1.1 through 57.120.1.5 shall receive a single consolidated
permit and fee invoice.



 



 



SEC. 57.120.1.1.  HAZARDOUS WASTE GENERATORS AND HAZARDOUS WASTE ON-SITE
TREATMENT PROGRAMS.



 



   Hazardous waste generator and on-site tiered permitting activities
authorized under the permit-by-rule, conditionally authorized, and
conditionally exempt tiers pursuant to Health and Safety Code, Division 20,
Chapter 6.5 (generally supplemented by Division 4.5, Title 22 of the
California Code of Regulations).



 



 



SEC. 57.120.1.2.  ABOVE GROUND PETROLEUM STORAGE ACT.



 



   The requirements of the Health and Safety Code, Division 20, Chapter
6.67, Sections 25270 - 25270.13, concerning above ground storage of petroleum.



 



 



SEC. 57.120.1.3.  UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANK PROGRAM.



 



   The requirements of the Health and Safety Code, Division 20, Chapter
6.7 (commencing with Section 25280), concerning underground storage tanks,
except for the responsibilities assigned to the State Water Resources Control
Board pursuant to Section 25297.1, and any requirements of Chapter 50 of this
Code pertaining to underground storage tanks.



 



 



SEC. 57.120.1.4.  HAZARDOUS MATERIALS RELEASE RESPONSE PLAN AND INVENTORY
PROGRAM.



 



   The requirements of Article 1 (commencing with Section 25501) of the
Health and Safety Code, Division 20, Chapter 6.95, concerning hazardous
material release response plans and inventories and any requirements of
Section 121 of this Code.



 



 



SEC. 57.120.1.5.  CALIFORNIA ACCIDENTAL RELEASE PREVENTION PROGRAM.



 



   The requirements of Article 2 (commencing with Section 25531) of the
Health and Safety Code, Division 20, Chapter 6.95, concerning hazardous
materials management and the requirements of Chapter 4.5 of Division 2 of
Title 19 of the California Code of Regulations.



 



 



SEC. 57.120.2.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   The following terms are defined in Chapter 2:



 



   Above Ground Storage Tanks Spill Prevention, Control, and
Countermeasure (SPCC) Plan



 



   Authorization



 



   Business



 



   California Accidental Release Prevention Program (CalARP)



 



   Certified Unified Program Agency or CUPA



 



   Hazardous Materials Release Response Plan (HMRRP) and Inventory Program



 



   Hazardous Waste Generators and Hazardous Waste Onsite Treatment Programs



 



   Participating Agency or PA



 



   Underground Storage Tank (UST) Program



 



   Unified Program Facility



 



   Unified Program Facility Permit



 



   Uniform Fire Code Hazardous Materials Management Plan (HMMP)



 



 



SEC. 57.120.3.  PERMIT REQUIRED.



 



   No person shall operate or maintain a new or existing Unified Program
Facility without having obtained an annually renewable Unified Program
Facility Permit with the appropriate authorization for each applicable
Unified Program element pursuant to this chapter, or other authorized permit.



 



 



SEC. 57.120.4.  APPLICATION FOR PERMITS.



 



   Application for permits shall comply with Sections 57.120.4.1 and
57.120.4.2.



 



 



SEC. 57.120.4.1.  FILING.



 



   All applications for a permit shall be filed with the Fire Department,
and shall be in writing on forms provided by the Fire Department.  At the
time an application for a permit is filed, the Fire Department shall collect
the established fees pursuant to this chapter.  All applications shall be
reviewed for completeness and acceptability for the purposes of this chapter.



 



 



SEC. 57.120.4.2.  CONTENTS OF APPLICATION.



 



   Applications for permits required by this section shall, unless
otherwise required by the Fire Department, contain a completed Los Angeles
Fire Department Unified Program application packet, provided by the Fire
Department.



 



 



SEC. 57.120.5.  PERMITS.



 



   Permits shall conform with Sections 57.120.5.1.1 through 57.120.5.1.2.



 



 



SEC. 57.120.5.1.  INVESTIGATION AND PROCEDURES FOR GRANTING, POWER TO DENY.



 



   Investigation and procedures for granting and power to deny shall
comply with Sections 57.120.5.1 and 57.120.5.2.



 



 



SEC. 57.120.5.1.1.  INVESTIGATION AND PROCEDURE FOR GRANTING.



 



   Investigation and procedure for granting permits shall be as follows:



 



   1.   The Fire Marshal shall investigate application for a permit,
and such investigation shall be made by authorized members of the Fire
Department.



 



   2.   The Fire Marshal may require such additional information as may
be necessary to carry out the investigation of the application for a permit.



 



   3.   If, after investigation and consideration of any application,
and any plans or specifications required in connection therewith, the Chief
shall determine that the proposed business, operation, occupation or premises
will not create any undue hazard as a result of fire or panic, and the
applicant is in compliance with all applicable Unified Program elements, the
Chief shall approve the application.



 



   4.   The Chief’s approval of the application may be made subject
to terms and conditions necessary for the safeguarding of life and property
from the hazards of fire, explosion or panic.



 



   5.   On approval of the application by the Chief and the payment of
the required fee the Fire Department shall issue the permit.



 



 



SEC. 57.120.5.1.2.  POWER TO DENY.



 



   The Chief, in his or her discretion, is hereby empowered to deny or
withhold approval of a permit for which an application has been made if the
building, premises, equipment, apparatus, or the facilities for the
establishing, maintaining, conducting or operating the business, operation,
occupation, or premises for which the permit is requested is or are
insufficient or are unfit or incapable of being used, maintained,
established, or operated to comply with this article or other applicable laws
and the Rules and Regulations of the Department.



 



 



SEC. 57.120.5.2.  PERMITS – FORM.



 



   Each permit shall be issued in accordance with the provisions of this
section and shall set forth upon the face thereof the following:



 



   1.   The name of the person to whom issued.



 



   2.   The name of said business.



 



   3.   The address where the premises are located and where the
address is different from that of the applicant, the address designated by
the applicant or his or her authorized agent for mailing purposes.  The
mailing address so appearing shall be the address to which all notices
required or authorized by this article shall be sent unless the applicant or
permittee shall request in writing that another address be used for such
purposes.



 



   4.   The signature of the Chief printed thereon.



 



   5.   The date of expiration of the permit and the date upon which
the annual permit fee shall be due and payable.



 



   6.   A list of the Unified Program elements authorized at the
facility.



 



 



SEC. 57.120.5.3.  POSTING AND KEEPING.



 



   Each permit issued pursuant to the provisions of this section shall be
posted in a conspicuous place on the premises for which the same is issued.



 



 



SEC. 57.120.5.4.  PERMITS – TRANSFER.



 



   No permit shall be transferable except when the business, operation,
occupation, or premises for which the permit is issued is transferred,
whether by sale or otherwise, to another person under such circumstances that
the ownership after the transfer is substantially similar to the ownership
existing before the transfer.



 



 



SEC. 57.120.5.4.1.  CHANGE OF LOCATION.



 



   Any change of location for a business, operation, occupation, or
premises shall require filing of a new application and payment of the
applicable fee(s) set forth in Sections 57.120.6 through 57.120.6.4.5.



 



 



SEC. 57.120.5.5.  VALIDITY.



 



   Unless otherwise set forth on the face of the permit, every permit
issued in accordance with the provisions of this section shall be valid until
expired, voided, revoked, or suspended.



 



 



SEC. 57.120.6.  UNIFIED PROGRAM FACILITY PERMIT SCHEDULE OF FEES.



 



   Any business subject to the provisions of this section, or any chapter
of this Code related to the inspection, enforcement, or administration of a
Unified Program element, shall pay a fee at the time of application, and
annually thereafter, for the issuance of the Unified Program Facility Permit,
computed pursuant to the schedule set forth in this section, to recover the
costs to the City for the inspection, enforcement, and for the administration
of those provisions by the City of Los Angeles Fire Department, and any other
charges required by law.



 



 



SEC. 57.120.6.1.  FEES AMENDED.



 



   The fees amended by the Board pursuant to this section shall be imposed
upon each Unified Program Facility which is subject to the State and local
provisions referred to hereinabove, according to the most current records of
the Fire Department.



 



 



SEC. 57.120.6.2.  SCHEDULE OF FEES.



 



   The procedure to establish and amend the Schedule of Fees shall comply
with Sections 57.120.6.2.1 through 57.120.6.2.2.



 



 



SEC. 57.120.6.2.1.  VERIFIABLE COSTS.



 



   The Board, with the concurrence of the City Administrative Officer,
shall determine on a regular basis the verifiable costs to the City for the
inspection and enforcement activities, and the administration of the Unified
Program elements, associated with the businesses plus the applicable State
service charges.  The Board shall use said costs to develop or to amend a
Schedule of Fees, hereinafter referred to as “Schedule,” so as to recover
City costs in connection with the administration of this section and any
other section of this Code for inspection and enforcement activities, and the
administration of the Unified Program or any of the elements, associated with
the businesses, and to collect any State mandated fees.  Said Schedule shall
be no higher than necessary to recover such costs.  The Board may amend the
Schedule based upon changes in City costs at any time during the fiscal year.



 



 



SEC. 57.120.6.2.2.  UPON ADOPTION OF THE SCHEDULE.



 



   Upon adoption of the Schedule, or any amendment thereto, the Board
shall transmit the Board order to the Mayor and the City Council for
consideration.  The review and approval or disapproval of the Schedule or
any amendment thereto shall be accomplished in the same manner as the review
and approval of fees by Mayor and Council under the provisions of Los Angeles
Municipal Code Section 57.113.6.3, provided, however, that approval shall
require a majority vote of the City Council and such Schedule or any
amendment thereto shall not be deemed approved by the passage of 60 days from
the date of delivery to the Council without disapproval thereof, and provided
further that such Schedule or any amendment thereto shall be deemed
disapproved if disapproved in writing by the Mayor within 60 days from date
of delivery and prior to any vote of approval by the Council.



 



 



SEC. 57.120.6.3.  FAILURE TO PAY.



 



   The failure to pay any fee as required by this section shall cause that
fee to become delinquent and an additional sum equal to 50% of the fee so
required shall be imposed for such delinquency and become a part of the fee
required, provided however that the Department, with the approval of the City
Attorney, shall waive any or all of said 50% to the extent such exceeds any
extra costs caused by said delinquency.  The City Attorney may approve
waiver of penalty for good cause, based upon information supplied by the
business and by the Fire Department.  Good cause shall include any
adequately documented circumstance of extreme financial hardship arising from
the requirement that the 50% penalty be paid.  Minor discrepancies in
payments, charges for duplicates of permits, and refunds of fees paid shall
be administered for purposes of this section in the same manner as provided
for permits under Sections 57.113.6.7, 57.113.6.10 and 57.113.6.11.



 



 



SEC. 57.120.6.4.  THE FEES CHARGED TO RECOVER CITY COSTS.



 



   The fees charged to recover City costs in connection with the
inspection and enforcement activities, and the administration of the
provisions of this section associated with the businesses, shall be computed
as established in Sections 57.120.6.4.1 through 57.120.6.4.5.



 



 



SEC. 57.120.6.4.1.  HAZARDOUS WASTE GENERATORS AND HAZARDOUS WASTE ON-SITE
TREATMENT ACTIVITIES.



 



   The fees for the hazardous waste generators and hazardous waste on-site
treatment activities program element will be established by the Los Angeles
County Fire Department Health Hazardous Materials Division, and reviewed and
approved by the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors, for the inspection
and enforcement activities associated with this program element.  The Los
Angeles County Fire Department is a Participating Agency to the City of Los
Angeles Fire Department for the inspection and enforcement activities
associated with this program element.  An additional administrative charge
may be applied by the Fire Department for oversight activities relative to
this program element.



 



 



SEC. 57.120.6.4.2.  UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANKS.



 



   In addition to the establishment of an annual permit fee for each
underground storage tank and the administration of Chapter 50, an hourly rate
shall be established for the plan check and inspection activities associated
with the installation, modification, abandonment, and site mitigation of
underground storage tanks and facilities.



 



 



SEC. 57.120.6.4.3.  HAZARDOUS MATERIALS RELEASE RESPONSE PLAN AND INVENTORY
PROGRAM.



 



   The fees charged to recover City costs in connection with the
administration of the Hazardous Materials Release Response and Inventory
Program, and the provisions of Section 57.120 of the Code, shall be computed
based on verifiable costs to the City and specified in the “Schedule”
amended under Section 57.120.6.2 of this Code.



 



 



SEC. 57.120.6.4.3.1.  TOTAL VOLUME.



 



   If the total volume of each type of lubricating oil handled at a single
business facility is below 55 gallons, but the total volume of all types of
lubricating oil handled at that facility exceeds 275 gallons at any one time,
each type of lubricating oil shall be subject to disclosure and business plan
requirements.  For the purposes of this paragraph, “lubricating oil”
means any oil intended for the use in an internal combustion crankcase, or
the transmission, gearbox, differential, or hydraulic system of an
automobile, bus, truck, vessel, plane, heavy equipment, or other machinery
powered by an internal combustion or electric powered engine.  The term
“lubricating oil” does not include used oil, as defined in Subdivision
(a) of Section 25250.1 of the Health and Safety Code of the State of
California.



 



 



SEC. 57.120.6.4.3.1.  PHYSICIANS, DENTISTS, PODIATRISTS, VETERINARIANS OR
PHARMACISTS.



 



   Physicians, dentists, podiatrists, veterinarians or pharmacists who
maintain oxygen or nitrous oxide at their offices or places of business in
quantities of not more than 1,000 cubic feet of each substance at any one
time shall be exempt from fee calculations with respect to such substances.



 



 



SEC. 57.120.6.4.4.  CALIFORNIA ACCIDENTAL RELEASE PREVENTION PROGRAM.



 



   The fees charged to recover City costs in connection with the
administration of the California Accidental Release Prevention Program, shall
include an annual administrative fee, a risk factor fee, and an hourly
inspection and review fee to be charged as the service is provided.



 



 



SEC. 57.120.6.4.5.  ABOVE GROUND PETROLEUM STORAGE PROGRAM.



 



   In addition to the establishment of an annual permit fee for each above
ground storage tank and the administration of Chapter 50 and other applicable
sections of this Code commencing with Section 57.120.7, an hourly rate shall
be established for the plan check and inspection activities associated with
the installation, modification, abandonment and site mitigation of above
ground storage tanks and facilities.



 



 



SEC. 57.120.6.4.6.  SERVICE CHARGES.



 



   Additional State service charges for individual program elements as
established by the Secretary of the California Environmental Protection
Agency shall be collected from Unified Program Facilities and forwarded to
the State.



 



 



SEC. 57.120.7.  IMPLEMENTATION OF TITLE 23.



 



   Pursuant to Chapter 6.11, and Chapter 6.7, Section 25299.1, of the
California Health and Safety Code (CHSC), the City of Los Angeles assumes
enforcement responsibility for the implementation of Title 23, Division 3,
Chapter 16 of the California Code of Regulations (CCR) and Chapter 6.7 of the
CHSC.  Chapter 16 CCR and 6.7 CHSC relate to the underground storage of
hazardous materials.



 



   Pursuant to Chapter 6.7, Section 25299.2 of the CHSC the Los Angeles
Fire Department executes its right to adopt and enforce underground tank
regulations, requirements, or standards of performance that are more
stringent than regulations requirements, or standards of performance in
effect under Chapter 6.7 with respect to underground storage tanks, if the
regulation, requirement, or standard of performance is consistent with
Chapter 6.7 CHSC.



 



   EXCEPTION:  The provisions of these sections shall not include
structures such as clarifiers, sumps, separators, storm drains, catch basins,
oil field gathering lines, refinery pipelines, intrastate pipelines, lagoons,
evaporation ponds, well cellars, separation sumps, lined or unlined pits,
aboveground storage tank spill containment areas, or final interceptors in
industrial waste pretreatment systems.



 



 



SEC. 57.121.  DISCLOSURE OF HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES.



 



 



SEC. 57.121.1.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   The following terms are defined in Chapter 2:



 



   Act - Chapter 6.95, Article 1,



 



   Business Plan



 



   Certification Statement



 



   Common Name



 



   Extremely Hazardous Substance (EHS)



 



   Handle



 



   Handler



 



   Owner of Business



 



   On-Site Manager



 



   Property Owner



 



   Release



 



   SIC Code



 



   Threatened Release



 



   Trade Secret



 



 



SEC. 57.121.2.  DUTY OF EACH ON-SITE MANAGER AND THE OWNER OF A BUSINESS.



 



   It shall be the duty of each on-site manager and the owner of a
business, as well as the property owner, to assure compliance with the
provisions set forth in Sections 57.121.1 through 57.121.9.



 



 



SEC. 57.121.2.1.  UNIFIED PROGRAM FACILITY PERMIT.



 



   Each business that handles or intends to handle a hazardous material or
a mixture containing a hazardous material in the City which has a quantity at
any one time during the reporting year equal to, or greater than, a total
weight of 500 pounds, or a total volume of 55 gallons, or 200 cubic feet at
standard temperature and pressure for a compressed gas; or exceeds the
applicable federal threshold planning quantity for an Extremely Hazardous
Substance specified in Title 40, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 355,
Appendix A; or exceeds the permit amounts for hazardous materials in Table
57.121.2.1, shall file an application for, and obtain a Section 57.120
Unified Program Facility Permit with the proper authorization listed for the
Hazardous Materials Release Response Plan (HMRRP) and inventory program
element as required by this section.  Existing Unified Program Facilities
with existing authorizations for other Unified Program elements, shall file
an application to amend their existing Section 57.120 Unified Program
Facility Permit to include the HMRRP authorization.  Section 57.120 Unified
Program Facility Permits with HMRRP authorizations shall be obtained on or
before the first day the business starts handling such substance and shall be
renewed annually.



 



TABLE 57.121.2.1
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS CLASSIFICATION AND PERMIT AMOUNTS



 



 

Hazardous Materials Categories
 
CUPA Permit Amount




PHYSICAL
HAZARDS
 
1.   Explosives and Blasting Agents:

   i.   High Explosives

   ii.   Low Explosives

   iii.   Blasting Agents
 
Any amount


2.   Compressed Gases

   i.   Flammable

   ii.   Oxidizing

   iii.   Corrosive

   iv.   Highly Toxic

   v.   Toxic

   vi.   Inert  (Chemically Unreactive)

   vii.   Pyrophoric

   viii.   Unstable (Reactive)
 
 

200 Cu Feet

200 Cu Feet

Any Amount

Any Amount

Any Amount

200 Cu Feet

Any Amount

Any Amount


3.   Flammable and combustible liquids

   i.   Flammable liquids

      Class I-A, Class I-B, Class I-C

   ii.   Combustible Liquids

      Class II, Class III-A, Class III-B
 
 

*5/10 Gallons

 

*25/55 Gallons

 


4.   Flammable Solids

   i.   Organic solids

   ii.   Inorganic solids

   iii.   Combustible metals (except dusts and powders)

   iv.   Combustibles dusts and powders (including metals)
 
100 Pounds


5.   Oxidizers

   ii. Liquids (Gal), iii. Solids (Lbs)

      Class 4

      Class 3

      Class 2

      Class 1
 
 

 

Any Amount

1 Gallon/50 Pounds

10 Gallons/100 Pounds

55 Gallons/500 Pounds


6.   Organic Peroxides

   i. Liquids (Gal), ii. Pastes, iii. Solids (Lbs)

      Unclassified

      Class I

      Class II

      Class III

      Class IV

      Class V
 
 

 

Any Amount

Any Amount

Any Amount

1 Gallon/10 Pounds

2 Gallons/20 Pounds

55 Gallons/500 Pounds


7.   Pyrophoric Materials:

   i. Liquids, ii. Solids
 
Any Amount


8.   Unstable (Reactive)  Liquids (Gal); Solids (Lbs)

   i.   Class 4

   ii.   Class 3

   iii.   Class 2

   iv.   Class 1
 
 

Any

Any

10 Gallons/100 Pounds

55 Gallons/500 Pounds


9.   Water-reactive Liquids (Gal); Solids (Lbs)

   i.   Class 3

   ii.   Class 2

   iii.   Class 1
 
 

Any

10 Gallons/100 Pounds

55 Gallons/500 Pounds


10.   Cryogenic Fluids

   i.   Flammable

   ii.   Oxidizing

   iii.   Corrosive

   iv.   Inert

   v.   Highly toxic
 
 

*1/55 Gallons

*55/55 Gallons

*1/1 Gallon

*55 /500 Gallons

*1/1 Gallon


HEALTH
HAZARDS
 
1.   Highly toxic and Toxic Materials

   i.   Highly toxic

      Liquids (Gal), Solids (Lbs)

   ii.   Toxic

      Liquids (Gal), Solids (Lbs)
 
Any Amount


2.   Radioactive Materials

   i.   Common radiation source materials

   ii.   Fissile Materials
 
Any Amount


3.   Corrosive Liquids (Gal); Solids (Lbs)

   i.   Acids

   ii.   Bases (alkalis)

   iii.   Other corrosives
 
55 Gallons/500 Pounds


4.   Other Health Hazards Liquids (Gal); Solids (Lbs)

   i.   Carcinogens or Suspect carcinogens

   ii.   Target organ toxins

   iii.   Irritants, iv. Sensitizers
 
55 Gallons/55 Pounds




 



*/: indoor/outdoor



 



 



SEC. 57.121.2.2.  AUTHORIZATION.



 



   A Section 57.120 Unified Program Facility Permit with the HMRRP
authorization shall be valid only for the business designated on the permit
by the City.  A separate permit shall be required for each business location
having a separate street address.



 



 



SEC. 57.121.2.3.  AFFECT ON OTHER LAWS.



 



   The issuance of a Section 57.120 Unified Program Facility Permit with
the HMRRP authorization required by this chapter does not authorize or permit
the handling of hazardous substances, nor does it except or exempt the holder
from compliance with, or affect in any way the applicability of, any other
Federal, State, or local law, rule, or regulation governing hazardous
substances.



 



 



SEC. 57.121.3.  REQUIREMENTS FOR BUSINESS PLANS AND INVENTORIES.



 



   In addition to the requirements of Section 57.120.4 of this Code, each
business shall prepare and submit a business plan as required by Section
57.121 or the Act.



 



 



SEC. 57.121.3.1.  BUSINESS PLANS SHALL INCLUDE.



 



   Business plans shall include, but not be limited to, the information
listed in Sections 57.121.3.1.1 through 57.121.3.1.3.



 



 



SEC. 57.121.3.1.1.  INVENTORY.



 



   The Annual Inventory Form shall include, but shall not be limited to,
information on all of the following which are handled in quantities equal to
or greater than the quantities specified in this section or the Act:



 



   1.   A listing of the chemical name and common names of every
hazardous substance or chemical product handled by the business.



 



   2.   The category of waste, including the general chemical and
mineral composition of the waste listed by probable maximum and minimum
concentrations, of every hazardous waste handled by the business.



 



   3.   A listing of the chemical name and common names of every other
hazardous material or mixture containing a hazardous material handled by the
business which is not otherwise listed pursuant to Paragraph (1) or (2).



 



   4.   The maximum amount of each hazardous material or mixture
containing a hazardous material disclosed in Paragraphs (1), (2) and (3)
which is handled at any one time by the business over the course of the year.



 



   5.   Sufficient information on how and where the hazardous materials
disclosed  in Paragraphs (1), (2) and (3) are handled by the business to
allow fire, safety, health, and other appropriate personnel to prepare
adequate emergency responses to potential releases of the hazardous materials.



 



   6.   The SIC Code number of the business if applicable.



 



   7.   The name and phone number of the person representing the
business and able to assist emergency personnel in the event of an emergency
involving the business during nonbusiness hours.



 



 



SEC. 57.121.3.1.2.  EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLANS AND PROCEDURES.



 



   The business plan shall include the following emergency response
procedures for a release or threatened release of hazardous materials, which
shall be reasonable and appropriate for the size and nature of the business,
the nature of the damage potential of the hazardous materials handled, and
the proximity of the business to residential areas and other populations:



 



   1.   Immediate notification to:



 



   a.   Local emergency response personnel;



 



   b.   The Fire Department and the State OES;



 



   c.   Persons within the facility who are necessary to respond to an
incident;



 



   2.   Identification of local emergency medical assistance
appropriate for potential accident scenarios;



 



   3.   Mitigation, prevention, or abatement of hazards to persons,
property, or the environment;



 



   4.   Immediate notification and evacuation of the facility; and



 



   5.   Identification of areas of the facility and mechanical or other
systems that require immediate inspection or isolation because of their
vulnerability to earthquake related ground motion.



 



 



SEC. 57.121.3.1.3.  TRAINING.



 



   The business plan shall include a training program which shall be
reasonable and appropriate for the size of the business and the nature of the
hazardous materials handled.  The training program shall take into
consideration the responsibilities of the employees to be trained.  The
training program shall, at a minimum, include:



 



   1.   Methods for safe handling of hazardous materials;



 



   2.   Procedures for coordination with local emergency response
organizations;



 



   3.   Use of emergency response equipment and supplies under the
control of the handler, and



 



   4.   The business plan shall include provisions for ensuring that
appropriate personnel receive initial and refresher training.



 



 



SEC. 57.121.3.2.  REQUIREMENT TO SUBMIT A HAZARDOUS MATERIALS INVENTORY.



 



   Businesses which are required to comply with the permit requirements
set forth in Section 57.121.2.1 shall be required to submit a Hazardous
Materials Inventory Form as indicated in Section 57.121.3.1.1.



 



 



SEC. 57.121.3.2.1.  REQUIREMENT TO SUBMIT A HAZARDOUS MATERIALS INVENTORY.



 



   Businesses which are required to comply with the permit requirements
set forth in Section 57.121.2.1 may be required to submit a business plan as
indicated in Section 57.121.3.1.2.



 



 



SEC. 57.121.3.3.  NOTIFICATION.



 



   Initial submission of the business plan shall be within 30 days of
notification by the Fire Department or within 30 days of the establishment of
the business, whichever is sooner.



 



 



SEC. 57.121.3.4.  SUBMISSION OF BUSINESS PLAN.



 



   When it is determined by the Fire Department that a business is subject
to requirements of this section or the provisions of the Act, the business
shall be so notified by the Fire Department.  Upon notification, the
business shall transmit to the Fire Department a complete business plan and
any other documentation required under the Act, as directed by the Fire
Department, in a format prescribed by the Fire Department, for review and
approval by the Fire Department.  The handler shall review the business plan
as required by the Act and shall certify to the Fire Department that the
review was made and that any necessary changes were made to the plan. 
Whenever a substantial change in the handler’s operations occurs which
requires a modification of its business plan, the handler shall submit a copy
of the plan revisions to the Fire Department within 30 days of the
operational change.



 



 



SEC. 57.121.3.5.  HAZARDOUS MATERIALS BUSINESS PLAN LATE SUBMISSION PENALTY.



   (Added by Ord. No. 186,067, Eff. 5/27/2019.)



 



   Compliance Required By Due Date.  Each business that is required to
submit a hazardous materials business plan in accordance with Section 57.121,
et seq., and Chapter 6.95, Article 1 of the California Health and Safety Code
shall submit its business plan by the due date established by the Department.



 



   Late Submission Penalty and Amount.  A business that fails to submit a
business plan in accordance with this section by the established due date
shall be assessed a late submission penalty of $500.



 



   Delinquency Notice.  A business that fails timely to submit a business
plan in accordance with this section shall be notified by mail of its
delinquency and the late submission penalty.  The notification shall be sent
to the address on file with the Department.  The business shall have 30 days
from the delinquency notification to submit a business plan and remit payment
of the late submission penalty.



 



   Failure to Comply After Notice.  A business that fails to submit a
business plan and/or pay the late submission penalty within 30 days after
notification may be subject to administrative, civil, and criminal penalties
for failure to comply with the requirements of this Code and Chapter 6.95,
Article 1 of the California Health and Safety Code.



 



   Penalty Assessment Disputes and Appeals.  If a business disputes the
late submission penalty assessed under this section, the business shall pay
the assessed penalty by the due date and request an appeal, in writing, to
the Board or its designee upon forms provided by the Department within 30
days after the Department sent the delinquency notification.



 



   The Board or its designee shall conduct a hearing to consider the
appeal and shall determine, based on the evidence presented at the hearing,
whether to deny the appeal and uphold the penalty assessed, or whether to
grant the appeal and refund the  late submission penalty.  Written notice
of the decision shall be given to the appellant within 20 days of the
conclusion of the hearing.  The determination by the Board or its designee
shall be final.



 



 



SEC. 57.121.4.  AMENDMENTS TO THE HAZARDOUS MATERIALS INVENTORY FORM.



 



   A business which has filed a Hazardous Materials Inventory Form shall
file an amendment to the form with the Fire Department before:



 



   1.   The business handles a hazardous substance not previously
listed on the form on file with the Fire Department;



 



   2.   The business handles quantities of a hazardous substance which
exceed the maximum quantities previously indicated on the form on file with
the Fire Department; or



 



   3.   There is a change in the mode or place of storage of hazardous
substances from that indicated on the form on file with the Fire Department
such that continued reliance on the information already contained in the form
on file could pose a threat to the environment or to the health or safety of
individuals.



 



   In addition to the above requirement, all businesses which are required
to submit a Hazardous Materials Inventory Form shall submit an annual
inventory or a certification statement.  An amendment submitted during the
year to report changes in inventory fulfills the annual submittal requirement
provided that the amendment contains the entire inventory, including those
items which have not changed.



 



 



SEC. 57.121.5.  SPECIAL INSPECTION.



 



   In the event of an emergency, or if a business refuses or fails to
disclose in a timely manner all information required by Section 57.120.4, and
by Section 57.121.3 or Section 57.121.4, the Chief may conduct a special
inspection at a business site to obtain information deemed necessary by the
Chief with respect to the existence and handling of hazardous substances as
permitted by law.



 



 



SEC. 57.121.6.  RECOVERY OF COSTS FOR SPECIAL INSPECTIONS.



 



   A nuisance exists when a business handles a hazardous substance that
has not been disclosed on a Hazardous Materials and Hazardous Waste Inventory
Form or as otherwise required by Section 57.121.  If a business is not in
compliance and a special inspection is needed to obtain information required
by Section 57.121 concerning hazardous substances handled by the business,
the City, after due notice, may conduct a special inspection and may
thereafter recover the costs of the inspection, together with any
administrative costs and the fee for issuance of a permit.  All costs
incurred pursuant to this section shall be a personal obligation against the
owner of the business and the owner of the property, jointly and severally,
and shall be recoverable by the City in an action before any court of
competent jurisdiction.  In addition to this personal obligation and all
other remedies provided by law, the City may collect any judgment, fee, cost,
or charge, including any permit fees, fines, late charges, or interest,
incurred in relation to the provisions of this section as provided in Los
Angeles Administrative Code Sections 7.35.1 through 7.35.8.



 



 



SEC. 57.121.7.  INSPECTION BY THE DEPARTMENT.



 



   At the discretion of the Chief, inspections may be conducted for the
purpose of determining compliance with this section and to cause to be
corrected any information which is discovered to be either different from
information in the application for a permit or HMRRP authorization or any
amendment to the Hazardous Materials and Hazardous Waste Inventory Form filed
with the City, or inaccurate, concerning the handling of hazardous substances
at a business site.



 



 



SEC. 57.121.8.  PERMIT AND FORM REQUIREMENTS.



 



   Copies of all Hazardous Materials Inventory Forms shall be maintained
at the business site for a period of not less than three years and shall be
made available to the Chief upon request.



 



 



SEC. 57.121.9.  PUBLIC DISCLOSURE.



 



   Information provided in an application for HMRRP authorizations shall
be deemed a public record subject to public inspection and copying pursuant
to the California Public Records Act, Section 6250, et seq., of the
Government Code of the State of California, and Division 12 of the Los
Angeles Administrative Code, except where the information involved is a trade
secret or is otherwise excepted under law from requirement of public
disclosure.



 



 



SEC. 57.201.  GENERAL.



 



   Chapter 2 of the CFC is hereby adopted by reference with the following
exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.202.  GENERAL DEFINITIONS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Above Ground Storage Tanks Spill Prevention, Control, and
Countermeasure (SPCC) Plan.  Includes the requirements of Health and Safety
Code Division 20, Chapter 6.67, Section 25270.5(c).



 



   Access Driveway“Outdoor storage reference.”  An all-weather
hard-surface roadway of not less than 20 feet in width and capable of
supporting Fire Department apparatus.



 



   Act - Chapter 6.95, Article 1.  Commencing with Sections 25500 through
25520 of Division 20 of the California Health and Safety Code, setting forth
the State provisions enacting business plans.



 



   Aircraft Fueling Station.  That portion of a premises where flammable
or combustible liquids are dispensed into the fuel tanks of aircraft.



 



   Airport Fueling System.  An arrangement of aviation fuel storage
tanks, pumps, piping, and associated equipment installed at an airport and
designed to service aircraft at fixed positions.



 



   Aircraft Loading Walkway.  An above ground device which is essentially
mobile in nature and which folds, telescopes or pivots from a fixed point at
the finger of the airport terminal building and is used to provide a means of
ingress and/or egress between a point in a finger of an airport terminal
building and an aircraft.



 



   Aircraft Fuel Servicing Tank Vehicle.  Any tank vehicle used for the
transferring of flammable or combustible liquids to or from fuel tanks or
compartments of aircraft.



 



   Alter or Alteration.  Any change, addition, or modification of any
approved appliance, device, system, equipment, process, occupancy, or
building.  “Alter” shall not be deemed to include replacement of
existing approved parts.



 



   Alternate Floor Warden.  A responsible person, holding a valid Floor
Warden Certificate, designated on each floor of every high-rise building,
prepared to assume the Floor Warden’s duties when necessary.



 



   Approved Testing Agency.  An established and recognized agency or
laboratory regularly conducting tests or furnishing inspection services when
such agency has been approved by the Department.  Agencies shall include,
but not be limited to Underwriter’s Laboratories, Factory Mutual
Laboratories, National Bureau of Standards, and the American Gas Association
Laboratory.



 



   Assembly Occupancy – also see Place of Assemblage.  A building,
portion of a building, or premises used or intended to be used for the
following the gathering together of 50 or more persons for amusement,
entertainment, education, instruction, deliberation, worship, drinking or
dining, awaiting transportation, or activities of a similar nature or the
showing of motion pictures when an admission fee is charged and when such
building or premises is open to the public and has a capacity of ten or more
persons.  Any tent or membrane structure with a capacity of ten or more
persons.



 



   Assistant Fire Safety Director.  A responsible person, who is an
employee of the building owner or manager or a resident designated by the
building owner, holding a valid Fire Safety Director Certificate, prepared to
assume the Fire Safety Director’s duties when necessary.



 



   Atmospheric Tank.  Any tank designed to operate at or above
atmospheric pressure, but not more than 0.5 psig.



 



   Authorization.  An acknowledgment of compliance for an individual
Unified Program element.



 



   Battery System, Stationary Storage.  A rechargeable energy storage
system consisting of electrochemical storage batteries, battery chargers,
controls, and associated electrical equipment designed to provide electrical
power to a building.  The system is typically used to provide standby or
emergency power, an uninterruptable power supply, load shedding, load sharing
or similar capabilities.  (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Battery Types.  (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Flow battery.  A type of storage battery which includes chemical
components dissolved in two different liquids.  Ion exchange, which provides
the flow of electrical current, occurs through the membrane while both
liquids circulate in their own respective space.



 



   Lead acid battery.  A storage battery that is comprised of lead
electrodes immersed in sulphuric acid electrolyte.



 



   Lithium-ion battery.  A storage battery with lithium ions serving as
the charge carriers of the battery.  The electrolyte is a polymer mixture of
carbonates with an inorganic salt and can be in a liquid or a gelled polymer
form.  Lithiated metal oxide is typically a cathode and forms of carbon or
graphite typically from the anode.



 



   Lithium metal polymer battery.  A storage battery that is similar to
the lithium-ion battery except that it has a lithium metal anode in the place
of the traditional carbon or graphite anode.



 



   Nickel cadmium (Ni-Cd) battery.  An alkaline storage battery in which
the positive active material is nickel oxide, the negative contains cadmium
and the electrolyte is potassium hydroxide.



 



   Pre-engineered stationary storage battery system.  An energy storage
system consisting of batteries, a battery management system, components and
modules that are produced in a factory, designed to comprise the system when
assembled and shipped to the job site for assembly.



 



   Prepackaged stationary storage battery system.  An energy storage
system consisting of batteries, a battery management system, components and
modules that is factory assembled and shipped as a complete unit for
installation at the job site.



 



   Sodium-beta storage battery.  A storage battery is also referred to as
Na-beta batteries or NBBs, which uses a solid beta-alumina electrolyte
membrane that selectively allows sodium ion transport between a positive
electrode such as metal halide and a negative sodium electrode.



 



   Stationary storage battery.  A group of electrochemical cells
interconnected to supply a nominal voltage of DC power to a suitably
connected electrical load, designed for service in a permanent location.



 



   Blasting.  The use of explosives for the purpose of removing or
demolishing buildings or structures, or portions thereof, rock or earth
dislocations, object fragmentation, tree or stump removal or other authorized
uses but excepting tunneling operations where the face of the tunnel is 25
feet or more from the tunnel mouth, and mining operations where the foot of
the shaft is 25 feet or more below ground level.



 



   Blasting Agent.  Any material or mixture consisting of a fuel and
oxidizer, intended for blasting, not otherwise classified as an explosive, in
which none of the ingredients are classified as an explosive, provided that
the finished product, as mixed and packaged for use or shipment, cannot be
detonated by means of a No. 8 blasting cap when unconfined.



 



   Board.  The Board of Fire Commissioners of the City of Los Angeles.



 



   Building Department.  The City of Los Angeles Department of Building
and Safety.



 



   Building Inventory Form.  A form, provided by the Fire Department and
completed by the Fire Safety Director, that contains information about a
building’s features, contents, systems, or any other pertinent facts that
could be used by emergency responders in mitigating an emergency incident in
the building.



 



   Bulk Distributing Station.  Any distributing station for hazardous
materials with a loading rack which is not an integral part of a refined
natural gasoline plant, marine oil terminal, or crude petroleum producing or
pipeline operation.



 



   Business.  Any employer, self-employed individual, trust, firm, joint
stock company, corporation, partnership, association, institution or public
agency.  The term “business” shall include both for profit and nonprofit
enterprises.



 



   Business Plan.  A separate Hazardous Materials Release Response Plan
(HMRRP) and Inventory for each facility, site, or branch of a business which
meets the requirements of Section 25504 of the Act.



 



   California Accidental Release Prevention Program (CalARP).  Includes
the requirements of Health and Safety Code Division 20, Chapter 6.95, Article
2.



 



   Carbon Dioxide Enrichment System.  A system where carbon dioxide gas
is intentionally introduced into an indoor environment, typically for the
purpose of stimulating plant growth.  (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff.
10/24/18.)



 



   Cellulose Nitrate Film.  Motion picture, X-ray, and sound recording
film coated on a base consisting essentially of cellulose nitrate.  The
terms “Cellulose Nitrate Film,” “Nitrate Film,” or “Nitro-Cellulose
Film” shall be synonymous.  This film may be in the form of unexposed film
positives, negatives, leaders, scrap or used film.



 



   Central Station Signaling System.  A system consisting of electrically
operated circuits and equipment, which transmits alarms from buildings and
structures equipped with a fire protection system to a central station which
is controlled and operated by a Fire Department-approved person or firm whose
business is the furnishing and maintaining of such a system and where
qualified personnel are in attendance at all times to notify the Fire
Department of any alarm received.



 



   Certificate of Fitness.  A written document issued by authority of the
Chief to any person for the purpose of granting permission to such person to
conduct or engage in any operation or act for which approval of the Fire
Department is required by Chapter 1 of this article.



 



   Certification Statement.  A statement signed by the business owner,
operator, or officially designated representative that attests to all of the
following:



 



   1.   The information contained in the Annual Inventory Form most
recently submitted to the administering agency is complete, accurate, and up
to date.



 



   2.   There has been no change in the quantity of any hazardous
material as reported in the most recently submitted Annual Inventory Form.



 



   3.   No hazardous materials subject to the inventory requirements of
this chapter are being handled that are not listed on the most recently
submitted Annual Inventory Form.



 



   4.   The most recently submitted Annual Inventory Form contains the
information required by Section 11022 of Title 42 of the United States Code.



 



   Certified Unified Program Agency or CUPA. The agency certified by the
Secretary to implement the Unified Program specified in the Health and Safety
Code, Division 20, Chapter 6.11 within a jurisdiction.



 



   Chief.  The Fire Chief of the Los Angeles Fire Department or his or
her authorized representative.  The Fire Code Official.



 



   Christmas Tree Area.  Any premises where Christmas trees are sold,
offered for sale, displayed for sale, or stored pending sale or disposal of
such trees.



 



   Church.  Any building or premises used as a place of assemblage for
public worship or meditation.



 



   Combustible Metal.  A metal, including, but not limited to, magnesium,
titanium, sodium, potassium, calcium, lithium, hafnium, zirconium, zinc,
thorium, uranium, plutonium or other similar metals, which ignite easily when
in the form of fine particles or molten metal.



 



   Common Area.  Shall mean that portion of the floor area which is
shared by and open to all residents of a residential occupancy, including
hallways, lobby areas, meeting rooms, recreation areas, garage and parking
areas, the basement and shafts of the building.  The term “Common Area”
shall also include all machinery rooms, equipment rooms and office rooms
whether or not such rooms are open to all occupants or guests of the building.



 



   Common Name.  The designation or identification commonly used to
identify a substance other than by its chemical name, including, but not
limited to, a code name, code number, trade name, or brand name.



 



   Cylinder Filling Plant.  Any lot or parcel of land or portion thereof
used for the purpose of filling portable pressure vessels with liquefied
flammable gas, flammable gas or other gas which is defined as a toxic
material, oxidizing material or unstable material.



 



   Department.  The Los Angeles Fire Department.



 



   Desolventizing. The act of removing a solvent from a material.  (Added
by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Display.  A fabrication forming a screen, a backdrop, a flat, a
curtain, a wall covering, a hanging, or other decorative effect, placed to
advertise, attract attention, instruct, give direction to, entertain, or to
cover or hide unsightly background; but which is not an architectural part of
a room or building, nor a permanent part of a premises, vehicle or marine
vessel.



 



   Drying Oven.  Any heated enclosure operating at atmospheric pressure
and at a temperature of over 125° F which is used for drying or processing
flammable or combustible materials.



 



   Emergency.  An unexpected situation requiring immediate action or the
response of public safety resources to preserve life, health, or property or
any condition which constitutes an immediate threat to public safety.



 



   Emergency Assistance Center.  A location (Fire Control Room/Fire
Command Center, main lobby, or a similar location) designated by the Fire
Safety Director or Assistant Fire Safety Director where they and other
selected personnel report during an emergency incident to manage the
emergency evacuation or fire drill.



 



   Emergency Helicopter Landing Facility.  A heliport on high-rise
buildings or elsewhere for Fire Department emergency use only.



 



   Energy Management System.  An electronic system protects stationary
storage batteries from operating outside its safe operating parameters, and
generates alarm and trouble for off-normal conditions.  (Added by Ord. No.
185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Essential Building Personnel.  Personnel employed by the building who
possess special knowledge of the building and its systems such as, but not
limited to:



 



   •   Building Manager



 



   •   Building Engineer



 



   •   Security Personnel



 



   Etiologic Agent.  A toxic material that is a viable microorganism
which causes or may cause human disease as defined in the Code of Federal
Regulations, Chapter 49, Section 173,386.



 



   Exhibit.  An item or presentation to attract notice of the public to
what is interesting, instructive, entertaining or of value; a show of talent
in the arts; the displaying and demonstrating of merchandise to attract
buyers; a show of comparison for competitive reasons in order to judge
competition among persons, pets, horses, livestock, poultry and birds, but
not including motion pictures, legitimate theater, opera or such other
presentations or productions held in occupancies constructed and equipped for
such use.



 



   Extremely Hazardous Substance (EHS).  Any chemical designated an
extremely hazardous substance as listed in Appendix A of Part 355 of
Subchapter J of Chapter I of Title 40 of the Code of Federal Regulations.



 



   Field Test.  See Section 806.1.4.4.



 



   Fire Code Official.  The Fire Chief of the Los Angeles Fire Department
or one of his/her representatives as provided in this Code.



 



   Fire-flow.  The quantity of water available or needed for fire
protection in a given area. Fire-flow is normally measured both in gallons
per minute (G.P.M.) at a specified pressure and durational flow.



 



   Fire Hazard.  Any condition, arrangement, or act which increases the
likelihood of fire to a greater degree than is recognized as acceptable
practice by the Department or which may provide a ready fuel supply to
augment the spread or intensity of a fire, or which may obstruct, delay,
hinder, or interfere with the operations of the Department or the egress of
occupants in the event of fire.



 



   Fire Protection Equipment.  Any appliance, device, or system provided
or installed for use on a premises in the event of fire.  It may include,
but is not limited to, fire assemblies, fire hydrants, Fire Department
connections and fire protection systems.



 



   Fire Protective Signaling Systems.  A system of electrical devices and
circuits, or mechanical devices, installed, arranged, and maintained to form,
transmit, or emit signals indicating an emergency requiring immediate action
to safeguard life and property from fire.



 



   Fire Safety Director.  An employee of the owner or manager or resident
of the building and designated as the Fire Safety Director by the owner,
administrator, or manager of a high-rise building, health care facility,
institution or other occupancy.  The Fire Safety Director must have a valid
Fire Safety Director Certificate and be responsible for the establishment,
implementation, and maintenance of a Department approved Emergency Plan for
that occupancy, and provide training in the use of first aid, fire equipment
and building evacuation procedures which are approved by the Fire Code
Official.



 



   Fire Safety Director Certificate.  A written document approved by the
Fire Code Official authorizing an employee/resident of a high-rise building,
health care facility or institution, to be the Fire Safety Director.  The
certificate is site-specific and shall only apply to that high-rise building,
health care facility, institution or other occupancy.



 



   Fire Safety Officer.  A Uniformed or a Certified Fire Safety Officer
as stated below:



 



   A.   Uniformed Fire Safety Officer.  A uniformed member of the
Department assigned to the Bureau of Fire Prevention and Public Safety.



 



   B.   Certified Fire Safety Officer.  A person approved and assigned
by the Chief to perform the duties of a Fire Safety Officer.



 



   Firebreak.  Any area which is cleared of combustible vegetation to
control the spread of fire.



 



   Flame Thrower.  Any portable device which is designed to throw, toss,
fling, project, or propel flammable material, ignited with an igniter,
intended to be ignited or otherwise toward or to an aiming point or auxiliary
aiming point.



 



   Flame Retardant/Flame Resistant.  A characteristic of certain fabrics
or materials which renders them resistant to flame or fire to the extent that
it will successfully withstand standard flame resistance tests amended by the
State Fire Marshal.



 



   Floor Area.  Shall mean the entire area of each floor, mezzanine,
basement, or shaft, or a building included within the surrounding exterior
walls of a building, plus any portion not included within the surrounding
exterior walls which is under the horizontal projection of the roof or floor
of the building.  The term “floor area” shall also include any garage
attached to or part of such building.



 



   Floor Warden.  A responsible person, holding a valid Floor Warden
Certificate, designated on each floor of every high- rise building, and
charged with the responsibility



of overseeing and ensuring the safe and complete evacuation or relocation of
occupants during an emergency or fire drill.



 



   Floor Warden Certificate.  A written document approved by the Fire
Code Official authorizing an employee/resident of a high-rise building to be
the Floor Warden. The certificate is site-specific and shall only apply to
that high-rise building.



 



   Gas Detection System.  A system or portion of a combination system
that utilizes one or more stationary sensors to detect the presence of a
specified gas at a specified concentration and initiate one or more responses
required by this code, such as notifying a responsible person, activating an
alarm signal, or activating or deactivating equipment.  A self-contained gas
detection and alarm device is not classified as a gas detection system. 
(Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   General Approval.  A written document issued by authority of the Chief
which constitutes Department approval of the type, design, and construction
of any appliance, device, equipment, or system.



 



   Guest Room.  Any room or rooms used or intended to be used by a guest
for sleeping purposes only.  Every 100 square feet of gross floor area in a
dormitory shall be considered to be a guest room.



 



   Handle. Includes to generate, sell, possess, process, store, discharge,
dispose or use.



 



   Handler. Includes any business which handles a hazardous material.



 



   Hazardous Materials Cabinet.  A cabinet constructed in accordance with
the provisions of L.A.F.D. Standard No. 40.



 



   Hazardous Materials Release Response Plan (HMRRP) and Inventory
Program.  Includes the requirements of Health and Safety Code Division 20,
Chapter 6.95, Article 1 (generally supplemented by Title 19 of the California
Code of Regulations, Sections 2620 - 2732), and any requirements of Section
57.121 of this Code.



 



   Hazardous Waste Generators and Hazardous Waste Onsite Treatment
Programs.  Includes the Hazardous Waste Generator (GEN) Program, and the
Onsite Tiered Permitting activities authorized under the permit-by-rule
(PBR), conditionally authorized (CA), and conditionally exempt (CE) tiers -
Health and Safety Code Division 20, Chapter 6.5 (generally supplemented by
Division 4.5, Title 22 of the California Code of Regulations).



 



   Hazardous Refuse.  Any combustible material, including, but not
limited to, rubbish, trash, debris, litter, scrap lumber, or sweepings that
could provide a ready fuel supply to augment the spread or intensity of a
fire.



 



   Health Care Facility Instructor.  A person who conducts training
classes as approved by the Department, for hospitals and/or sanitariums, and
who issues, on behalf of the Department, certificates for completion of
“fire/life safety” training in the City of Los Angeles.



 



   High-Rise Life Safety Service.  A person or firm in the business of
developing and/or conducting training in emergency planning, evacuation
procedures, and the use of first-aid fire equipment in high-rise buildings in
the City of Los Angeles which has obtained a Certificate of Fitness or
otherwise been approved by the Department.



 



   Hotel.  Any building containing six or more guest rooms intended or
designed to be used, rented, or occupied for sleeping purposes by guests.



 



   Hydrant Cart.  A portable system of pipes, hoses, valves, meters
filters and other appurtenances for controlling the transfer of fuel from
fixed piping systems into the fuel tanks of aircraft.



 



   Laboratory.  A building, room, or other designated area, either inside
or outside a building, devoted to experimental studies in science, or to
testing, analysis, inspection, research, or process control and
development.  Laboratories may contain one or more separate laboratory work
areas which involve the use of hazardous materials. Laboratories shall be
divided into two classes:



 



   Laboratory Class A.  Any laboratory which uses or processes any
hazardous material on the premises in a quantity over the exempt amount as
set forth in Table 57.105.6.1.4 of this article.



 



   Laboratory Class B.  Any laboratory which uses or processes hazardous
materials on the premises within the quantities which are within the exempt
amounts as set forth in Table 57.105.6.1.4 of this article.



 



   Little Theater.  Any room, hall, auditorium or premises having a
stage, platform or area designed or used for entertainment and adapted to the
presentation of plays, musicals, operas, pageants, or similar forms of
entertainment, such stage, platform or area not requiring a fire resistive
curtain, automatic sprinkler system, or automatic vents.



 



   Live Theatrical Production.  Any live theatrical performance in any
motion picture theater, theater, or little theater, including, but not
limited to, plays, dramas, pageants, musicals, operas, circuses,
performances, and similar presentations utilizing scenery and/or settings,
lighting, or other stage dressing or paraphernalia.



 



   Loading Rack.  Any system, piping, or other appurtenances maintained
and used for transferring hazardous materials between pipe lines or tanks and
tank vehicles, tank cars, tank vessels, or containers on vehicles.



 



   Marine Oil Terminal.  Any plant, station, premises, or equipment used
in connection therewith, located on the harbor or ocean front, which is
designed and intended to deliver to or receive from oceangoing vessels
liquefied or gaseous hazardous materials or flammable or combustible liquids.



 



   Marine Service Station.  Any station, plant, premises or equipment
used in connection therewith, where flammable or combustible liquids used as
motor fuels are dispensed from equipment, on shore, piers or wharves to
floating craft for fuel, except bunkering facilities for oceangoing vessels.



 



   Main Aisle “Indoor storage reference.”  An unobstructed way of
egress at least 8 feet in width.



 



   Main Aisle“Outdoor storage reference.”  An unobstructed way of
egress not less than 10 feet in width.



 



   Miscella. A mixture, in any proportion, of the extracted oil or fat and
the extracting solvent.  (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Motel.  Shall mean Hotel as defined in this article.



 



   Motion Picture Theater.  Any building or premises or portion thereof
designed or used for the showing of motion pictures, when an admission fee is
charged and when such building or premises is open to the public and has a
capacity of ten or more persons.



 



   Municipal Code.  The Los Angeles Municipal Code (LAMC).



 



   Native Brush or Shrub.  All vegetation which is indigenous to and
found within the City of Los Angeles.



 



   Natural Gasoline Plant.  Any facility in which gasoline is extracted
from petroleum vapors produced at the well.



 



   Net Acre.  An area of ground surface consisting of 43,560 square feet
exclusive of any public street, alley, parkway, sidewalk, easement or other
public right-of-way.



 



   Non-storage Area “Outdoor storage reference.”  An area separated
from storage areas by a distance of at least 10 feet and used for the
servicing, repair, and storing of material-handling equipment, the repairing
of crates, boxes, and other containers, and for repacking operations.



 



   Normal working hours.  The hours between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. of
any day, except Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.



 



   Occupant Load.  The total number of persons that may occupy a
building, portion of a building or premises at any one time.



 



   Oil Drilling District. A district described in Section 13.01 of the Los
Angeles Municipal Code.



 



   Oil Well.  Any well or hole already drilled, being drilled or to be
drilled into the surface of the earth which is used or intended to be used in
connection with coring, or the drilling for, prospecting for, or producing
petroleum, natural gas, or other hydrocarbon substances; or is used or
intended to be used for the subsurface injection into the earth of oil field
waste, gases, water or liquid substances; including any such existing hole,
well or casing which has not been abandoned in accordance with the
requirements of this article, except that “oil well” shall not include
“temporary geological exploratory core hole.”



 



   Operating Unit.  See Section 57.5706.3.1.6.



 



   Overcrowded. A condition that results from more persons occupying a
room, building, or premises than are approved by the Chief.



 



   Owner of Business.  Includes any officer, director, supervisor, or
other person having discretionary, as distinguished from ministerial,
responsibility for a business at the address set forth in the permit.



 



   On-site Manager. The person or persons who directs or controls a
business at a particular location or site.



 



   Partially Vacant Building.  Shall mean any high-rise building which is
vacant on all floors above ground level and under order from the Department
of Building and Safety to maintain that status until modifications or
improvements are made to the fire protection systems to bring them into
compliance with Code.



 



   Participating Agency or PA.  An agency which has a written agreement
with the CUPA pursuant to the Health and Safety Code, Subdivision (d) of
Section 25404.3, and is approved by the Secretary, to implement or enforce
one or more of the Unified Program elements specified in Subdivision (c), in
accordance with the provisions of Health and Safety Code Sections 25404.1 and
25404.2.



 



   Permit.  A written document issued by authority of the Chief to any
person for the purpose of granting permission to such person to conduct or
engage in any business, operation, or act for which approval of the
Department is required.



 



   Place of Assemblage (See, also, Assembly Occupancy).  A building,
portion of a building, or premises used or intended to be used for the
following the gathering together of 50 or more persons for amusement,
entertainment, education, instruction, deliberation, worship, drinking or
dining, awaiting transportation, or activities of a similar nature or the
showing of motion pictures when an admission fee is charged and when such
building or premises is open to the public and has a capacity of ten or more
persons.  Any tent or membrane structure with a capacity of ten or more
persons.



 



   Portable Container.  Any portable tank, container, or pressure vessel,
capable of being readily moved from place to place, and not fixed in place.



 



   Portable Magazine.  A stout box constructed in accordance with the
provisions of L.A.F.D. Standard No. 40 for the transportation or temporary
storage of not more than one hundred pounds of explosive materials.



 



   Premises.  Any parcel of land, regardless of the number of contiguous
lots, occupied by or under the control of the same person or firm and
including all buildings, structures, and improvements thereon.



 



   Private Fire Hydrant.  An approved fire hydrant which is located on
private property and is connected to and serviced by the public water system.



 



   Private First Responder.  Personnel incorporated into the emergency
plan, trained to handle an emergency incident by providing direction and
assistance prior to the arrival of emergency responders.  All private first
responders must be approved by the Fire Department.



 



   EXCEPTION:  Paramedics and Emergency Medical Technicians are approved
by the California Emergency Medical Services Authority.  Private first
responders include, but are not limited to:



 



   •   Fire Safety Director



 



   •   Floor Warden



 



   •   Paramedic



 



   •   Emergency Medical Technician (EMT)



 



   •   Civilian Emergency Response Team (CERT)



 



   Process.  The manufacturing, handling, blending, conversion,
purification, recovery, separation, synthesis or use of any commodity or
material regulated by this article.



 



   Property Owner.  Includes any person, association, partnership, firm,
corporation, or public entity appearing as the holder of title on any
property as shown on the records of the City Clerk or on the last property
assessment roll of the County of Los Angeles.



 



   Release.  Includes any spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting,
emptying, discharging, injecting, escaping, leaching, dumping, or disposing
into the environment, unless permitted or authorized by a regulatory agency.



 



   Representative.  A duly sworn member of the Department.



 



   Requested Inspection.  An inspection that is requested by a business
or building owner with the intent of receiving a Fire Clearance Letter
stating that the building and business are Fire Code complaint at the time of
the inspection.  Normal periodic inspections and inspections covered under
other sections of the Fire Code do not constitute a Requested Inspection
under this definition.  (Added by Ord. No. 186,030, Eff. 4/27/19.)



 



   Responsible Resident.  A person who has charge of an apartment house
or hotel in accordance with the requirements of Chapter 47 of this article
and who maintains primary residence therein.



 



   School.  A building, premises, or portion thereof used for education,
training, or instruction through the twelfth grade for more than six persons
for more than 12 hours per week or four hours in any one day.



 



   SIC Code.  The identification number assigned by the Standard
Industrial Classification Code to specific types of businesses.



 



   Side Aisle“Indoor storage reference.”  An unobstructed secondary
way of egress not less than 4 feet in width and transecting main aisles.



 



   Side Aisle“Outdoor storage reference.”  An unobstructed secondary
way of egress not less than 5 feet in width and transecting a main aisle.



 



   Single Storage Area “Indoor storage reference.”  An area of a
building separated from other areas by fire walls or fire barrier and
containing one or more storage piles.



 



   Single Storage Area“Outdoor storage reference.”  An outside
storage area limited to 30,000 square feet.



 



   Spark Arrester.  For chimneys: any device for arresting burning carbon
or sparks, constructed of minimum 12 gauge woven wire metal, stainless steel,
aluminum, copper or brass, with 1/2 inch maximum openings, or cast iron
plate, 3/16 inch minimum thickness and having 1/2 inch perforations spaced
one inch apart, measured center to center.



 



   Special Permit.  A written document issued by authority of the Chief
for the purpose of granting permission to and stating the conditions under
which a person or company may conduct or engage in any operation or act, not
specified in Chapter 1 of this article, for which approval of the Department
may be required by this article.



 



   Special School.  Any building, premises, or portion thereof used for
education, training, or instruction of more than six students, 16 years of
age or under, for more than eight hours per week and which is not subject to
the provisions of Part 2, Division 9, Chapter 6, Articles 1 and 2 of the
Education Code of California.



 



   Special Vessel.  Any pressure vessel, low-pressure tank, or
atmospheric tank that requires venting, insulation, refrigeration, or a
combination of these, in order to maintain the operating pressure within the
design pressure, and the contents in the liquid phase at temperatures below
ambient.



 



   Specimen Native Shrub.  An individual shrub which is within the
definition of “Native Brush” and which is trimmed up to 1/3 its height
above ground, and from the vicinity of which has been removed all dead wood,
duff, and combustible litter.



 



   Standing Concert Attendance.  A standing gathering of persons within a
place of assemblage, in an area where seating is not provided, and where the
principal attraction is the viewing of live, on stage entertainment.  (This
is sometimes inaccurately referred to as festival seating.)



 



   Standpipe, Combined.  A system of water piping which serves 2 1/2 inch
hose outlets for use by the Fire Department and also supplies water to
automatic sprinkler systems.



 



   Stationary Battery Array. An arrangement of individual stationary
storage batteries in close proximity to each other, mounted on storage racks
or in modules, battery cabinets, or other enclosures.  (Added by Ord. No.
185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Storage Pile “Indoor storage reference.” A floor area within a
single storage area separated from other storage piles within that area by
main aisles and side aisles and limited to 3,000 square feet.



 



   Storage Pile“Outdoor storage reference.”  An outside ground area
limited to 1,500 square feet within a single storage area.



 



   Supplemental Fire Protection.  Equipment and systems, and the
arrangement and alterations of such equipment and systems not otherwise
required in the Los Angeles Municipal Code, which are accepted in lieu of or
are required in addition to compliance with the specific requirements of this
chapter as determined by the Chief.



 



   Tank Car.  Any railway car equipped with a cargo tank mounted thereon,
used for the transportation of commodities by rail.



 



   Tank in an Underground Area.  A tank located in a structure that is at
least 10 percent below the ground surface, including, but not limited to, a
basement, cellar, shaft, pit, or vault.  (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff.
10/24/18.)



 



   NOTE:  A tank in an underground area shall have the same meaning as
defined in Health and Safety Code Section 25270.2(o)(1) for the applications
specified in Sections 57.2306.6.2.7, 57.5703.4.1, and 57.5703.6.2.2 of this
Code.



 



   EXCEPTIONS:



 



   1.   A pressure vessel or boiler that is subject to Labor Code,
Division 5, Part 6 (commencing with Section 7620).



 



   2.   A tank containing hazardous waste or extremely hazardous waste,
as respectively defined in Health and Safety Code Sections 25117 and 25115,
if the Department of Toxic Substances Control has issued the person owning or
operating the tank a hazardous waste facilities permit for the tank.



 



   3.   An aboveground oil production tank that is subject to Public
Resources Code Section 3106.



 



   4.   Oil-filled electrical equipment, including but not limited to
transformers, circuit breakers, or capacitors, if the oil-filled electrical
equipment meets either of the following conditions:



 



   4.1.   The equipment contains less than 10,000 gallons of dielectric
fluid.



 



   4.2.   The equipment contains 10,000 gallons or more of dielectric
fluid with polychlorinated biphenyl levels less than 50 parts per million,
appropriate containment or diversionary structures or equipment are employed
to prevent discharged oil from reaching a navigable water course, and the
electrical equipment is visually inspected in accordance with the usual
routine maintenance procedures of the owner or operator.



 



   5.   A tank regulated as an underground storage tank under Health
and Safety Code Division 20, Chapter 6.7 (commencing with Section 25280) and
the California Code of Regulations, Title 23, Division 3, Chapter 16
(commencing with Section 2610) and that does not meet the definition of a
tank in an underground area.



 



   6.   A transportation-related tank facility, subject to the
authority and control of the United States Department of Transportation, as
defined in the Memorandum of Understanding between the Secretary of
Transportation and the Administrator of the United States Environmental
Protection Agency, as set forth in the Code of Federal Regulations, Title 40,
Chapter I, Subchapter D, Part 112 (commencing with Section 112.1).



 



   7.   A tank or tank facility located on and operated by a farm that
is exempt from the federal spill, prevention, control, and countermeasure
rule requirements pursuant to the Code of Federal Regulations, Title 40,
Chapter I, Subchapter D, Part 112 (commencing with Section 112.1).



 



   Theater.  Any room, hall, auditorium or premises having a stage
designed or used for entertainment and adapted to the presentation of plays,
musicals, operas, pageants, or similar forms of entertainment.



 



   Threatened Release.  Includes, but is not limited to, any condition
creating a substantial probability of harm, when the probability and
potential extent of harm make it reasonably necessary to take immediate
action to prevent, reduce, or mitigate damages to persons, property, or to
the environment.



 



   Temporary Geological Exploratory Core Hole.  A seismic test hole or
exploratory core hole used or intended to be used exclusively for
geophysical, geological, and other exploratory testing for oil, natural gas
or other hydrocarbon substances to be drilled and abandoned within 30 days
from the time of commencement of actual drilling operations unless otherwise
approved for a longer period of time as specified under the provisions of
Section 57.105.6 of this article.



 



   Total Building Evacuation.  Evacuation of all of the occupants of a
building and portions thereof, during a single event, to a predetermined
outside safe refuge area.



 



   Trade Secret.  Includes, but is not limited to, any formula, plan,
pattern, process, tool, mechanism, compound, procedure, production data, or
compilation of information which is not patented, which is known only to
certain individuals within a commercial concern who are using it to
fabricate, produce, or compound an article of trade or a service having
commercial value, and which gives its user an opportunity to obtain a
business advantage over competitors who do not know or use it.



 



   Underground Storage Tank (UST) Program.  Includes the requirements of
Health and Safety Code Division 20, Chapter 6.7, excluding Section 25297.1,
and any requirements of Chapter 50 of this Code as they pertain to
underground storage tanks.



 



   Unified Program Facility.  All contiguous land and structures, other
appurtenances, and improvements on the land which are subject to the
requirements listed in Subdivision (c) of Section 25404 of the California
Health and Safety Code, the requirements of Section 57.121 of this Code, or
the requirements of Chapter 50 of this Code as they relate to underground
storage tanks.



 



   Unified Program Facility Permit.  A permit issued pursuant to the
Health and Safety Code Division 20, Chapter 6.11.  For the purposes of this
section, a Unified Program Facility Permit encompasses permit or
authorization requirements only as specified for a Unified Program Facility.



 



   Uniform Fire Code Hazardous Materials Management Plan (HMMP). Includes
the requirements of the Uniform Fire Code, as amended by the State Fire
Marshal pursuant to Section 13143.9 of the Health and Safety Code, concerning
hazardous materials management plans and inventories for hazardous materials.



 



   Very High Fire Hazard Severity Zone. Any area within the City of Los
Angeles that poses a significant threat of fire from adjoining natural brush
hillside areas and which is determined by the following factors: topography,
infrastructure, fire protection, population density, types of construction,
weather, existing fire codes and ordinances, and fire history.



 



   Weeds.  Plants which are defined as follows:



 



   1.   Plants which bear seeds of a downy or wingy nature.



 



   2.   Plants which are noxious or dangerous.



 



   3.   Poison oak when the conditions of its growth are such as to
constitute a menace to public health.



 



   4.   Annual grasses or other flammable vegetation which endangers
public safety by creating a fire hazard.



 



   Work Area.  That space within a building occupied by one working
person including the bench, machines, or other operating equipment and the
supply of hazardous materials or plastics which are in process, awaiting
process, or finished.



 



 



SEC. 57.301.  GENERAL.



 



   Chapter 3 of the CFC is hereby adopted by reference with the following
exceptions, modifications, and additions; and where the CFC did not adopt the
IFC those sections of the IFC are hereby adopted by reference with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.301.2.  PERMITS.



 



   Permits shall be required as set forth in Chapter 1 for activities or
uses regulated by Sections 57.306, 57.307, 57.308, 57.314, 57.320 and 57.324.



 



 



SEC. 57.302.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   Section 302 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.302.1.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   Single Storage Area.  “Indoor storage reference”



 



   Storage Pile.  “Indoor storage reference”



 



   Main Aisle.  “Indoor storage reference”



 



   Side Aisle.  “Indoor storage reference”



 



   Access Driveway. “Outdoor storage reference”



 



   Main Aisle. “Outdoor storage reference”



 



   Non-storage Area.  “Outdoor storage reference”



 



   Side Aisle. “Outdoor storage reference”



 



   Single Storage Area. “Outdoor storage reference”



 



   Storage Pile.  “Outdoor storage reference”



 



 



SEC. 57.303.  ASPHALT KETTLES.



 



   Section 303 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.303.8.1.  ROOFING KETTLES ON TRUCKS.



 



   Ground kettles shall not be fired or used while mounted on the bed of
trucks, except if the truck body is all metal construction, and the kettle is
securely attached to the bed by adequate bolts or by welding of the legs to
body of truck.  Patch kettles shall not be permitted for use while mounted
on the bed of the truck.



 



 



SEC. 57.303.8.2.  STREET PROTECTION.



 



   All improved streets shall be protected from damage by use of sand or
other noncombustible materials under roofing kettles.  Streets shall be
cleaned of all excess tar and other debris upon completion of work.



 



 



SEC. 57.303.8.3.  PIPING TO ROOF.



 



   Piping to roof shall conform to the following:



 



   1.   Piping or tubing used to transfer heated material to the roof
shall be Schedule 40 or equivalent.  Flexible steel piping shall be of an
approved type.  Flexible piping shall not be used anywhere in the system
except at the connection immediately adjacent to the pump or kettle and shall
not exceed 6 feet in length.



 



   2.   Remote operated bypass valves used in a single supply line
system shall be of a fail-safe type which opens automatically if the control
line or lanyard fails.



 



   3.   All piping shall be firmly supported at not more than 12-foot
intervals.



 



 



SEC. 57.304.  COMBUSTIBLE WASTE MATERIAL.



 



   Section 304 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.304.1.2.  VEGETATION.



 



   Weeds, grass, vines or other growth that is capable of being ignited
and endangering property shall be cut down and removed by the owner or
occupant of the premises.  Vegetation clearance requirements shall be in
accordance with Section 57.322 and Chapter 49.



 



 



SEC. 57.304.1.4.  REMOVAL.



 



   Hazardous refuse received from outside sources or generated as a result
of a process or activity shall be removed from the working area and safely
stored or otherwise safely processed as often as necessary to prevent a fire
hazard.



 



 



SEC. 57.304.1.5.  DRIFTING WASTE.



 



   No person owning or having charge or control of any premises shall
allow hazardous refuse to drift, blow, or otherwise be dispersed into or onto
adjoining property or public ways.



 



 



SEC. 57.304.1.6.  HAZARD.



 



   No person owning or having control of any premises shall allow any
hazardous refuse to be present thereon which, by reason of its proximity to
buildings or structures, would constitute a fire hazard to life or property.



 



 



SEC. 57.304.2.1.  PROPERLY STORED OR DISPOSED.



 



   Hazardous refuse shall be properly stored or disposed of at the end of
each working day and before vacating a building or premises and whenever
necessary to prevent unsafe accumulations.



 



 



SEC. 57.304.2.2.  APPROVED STORAGE OF HAZARDOUS REFUSE AND RECYCLING
MATERIALS.



 



   Hazardous refuse and recycling materials shall be stored as follows:



 



   1.   In approved noncombustible containers or bins equipped with
tightly fitting cover.



 



   2.   In approved noncombustible outdoor storage bins located a
minimum of 10 feet from any building or building opening.



 



   EXCEPTION:  Approved noncombustible storage bins may be located
adjacent to a minimum one-hour wall and a minimum of 10 feet from any
building opening.



 



   3.   In rubbish rooms, recycling room, constructed of minimum of one
hour fire barrier.  Rubbish rooms shall be equipped with an automatic
sprinkler system.



 



   4.   In isolated areas acceptable to the Chief.  Every industrial,
commercial, residential, institutional, educational, and assembly occupancy
shall provide a specifically designated room or area, in or on the premises,
where approved hazardous refuse storage facilities are maintained awaiting
disposal, removal, or approved processing.



 



 



SEC. 57.304.2.3.  STORING AND DISPOSING PROHIBITIONS.



 



   Hazardous refuse and recycling materials shall not be stored as follows:



 



   1.   The storing or disposing of hazardous refuse and recycling
materials on any public street, alley, sidewalk, parkway, park recreation
area, easement, firebreak, fire road, walkway, or freeway, except in those
authorized areas, bins, or containers posted or marked for such use, is
prohibited.



 



   2.   The storing or disposing of hazardous refuse and recycling
materials on any parcel of land or premises which is not owned, rented,
leased, or otherwise legally controlled by the person, party, or firm
responsible for the storing or disposing is prohibited.



 



   3.   The dumping, disposing, or littering of hazardous refuse and
recycling materials onto any premises, except an authorized waste material
processing plant, licensed public dump, or sanitary fill, is prohibited.



 



   4.   The use of a room or suite of rooms for the storage of
hazardous refuse and recycling materials in any occupancy, except as provided
for in Section 304.2.1 for the specific purpose, is prohibited.



 



   5.   The use of rubbish chutes for the storage of hazardous refuse
and recycling materials is prohibited.  Every rubbish chute shall terminate
in a rubbish room or approved noncombustible container outside of a building
of sufficient capacity to receive the entire volume of hazardous refuse being
dumped in the chute.



 



   6.   The use of combustible containers to receive hazardous refuse
and recycling materials from rubbish chutes in lieu of rubbish rooms is
prohibited.



 



   7.   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to waive any of the
requirements in Chapter 6 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code Public Works and
Property Code, or regulation of the Department of Public Works which
regulates the hours of the day in which garbage receptacles are permitted on
public streets.



 



 



SEC. 57.305.  IGNITION SOURCES.



 



   Section 305 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.305.5.1.  FIRES DUE TO CARELESSNESS OR NEGLIGENCE.



 



   Sections 57.305.5.1.1 through 57.305.5.1.3 shall apply to institutional
or residential occupancies.



 



 



SEC. 57.305.5.1.1.  HOSTILE FIRE.



 



   For the purpose of Section 57.305.5.1, the term “fire” shall mean a
hostile fire which is not confined to a place intended for the confinement of
fire, or which has escaped from such place of confinement.



 



 



SEC. 57.305.5.1.2.  FIRES IN INSTITUTIONAL OR RESIDENTIAL OCCUPANCIES.



 



   Any person who, in any residential or institutional occupancy, by any
means whatsoever, through carelessness or negligence, sets fire to or causes
the burning of any bedding, furniture, rug, curtain, drape, or other house or
household furnishings or fittings or any part of such residential or
institutional occupancy, in such manner as to endanger the safety of any
person or property, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.



 



 



SEC. 57.305.5.1.3.  FIRE REGULATIONS POSTED.



 



   The owner, manager, or person in control of each residential or
institutional occupancy shall post or cause to be posted conspicuously in the
lobby of each establishment a printed notice with the wording “FIRE
REGULATIONS” in not less than 14 point bold face type, and the text of
Section 57.305.5.2 in not less than 12 point bold face type, and shall also
post such notice, or cause such notice to be posted, in each unit of
occupancy within such establishment designed or intended for the use of, or
used by, transients, and at such other locations as may be directed by the
Chief.



 



 



SEC. 57.305.5.1.4.  PENALTIES AND MINIMUM FINES.



 



   Violation of Sections 57.305.5.1.1 through 57.305.5.1.3 shall be
subject to penalties and minimum fines as prescribed in Section 57.109.4.2
and Table 57.109.4.



 



 



SEC. 57.305.5.2.  RESTRICTION ON USE OF CERTAIN METAL CUTTING BLADES.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,789, Eff. 10/17/18.)



 



   Use of metal cutting blades for grass or brush clearance shall be
limited to those which are non-ferrous/non-sparking.



 



   The provisions of this section shall apply when grass or brush
clearance operations are being conducted in accordance with Section 57.322.1
in areas within the Very High Fire Hazard Severity Zone (VHFHSZ), as defined
in Figure 57.4908.1.1.



 



 



SEC. 57.305.5.2.1.  PENALTY.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,789, Eff. 10/17/18.)



 



   A first violation of this section shall be an infraction punishable by
a fine not to exceed $250.  A second and all subsequent violations of this
section shall be subject to the provisions of Section 11.00 of the Los
Angeles Municipal Code, including prosecution as an infraction or prosecution
as a misdemeanor punishable by a fine not to exceed $1,000, by imprisonment
in the County Jail for a period not to exceed six months, or by both such
fine and imprisonment.  In addition to the aforementioned penalties, any
violator convicted under this section, which resulted in a fire, may be
liable for any civil cost recovery associated with the fire, as permitted by
law.



 



 



SEC. 57.306.  MOTION PICTURE PROJECTION ROOMS AND FILM.



 



   Section 306 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.306.2.1.  USE OF CELLULOSE NITRATE FILM.



 



   Use of cellulose nitrate film shall be in accordance with NFPA 40.



 



 



SEC. 57.307.  OPEN BURNING, RECREATIONAL FIRES AND PORTABLE OUTDOOR
FIREPLACES.



 



   Section 307 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.307.2.  PERMIT REQUIRED.



 



   A permit shall be obtained from the fire code official in accordance
with Section 57.105.8 prior to kindling a fire for recognized silvicultural
or range or wildlife management practices, prevention or control of disease
or pests, or a bonfire. Application for such approval shall only be presented
by and permits issued to the owner of the land upon which the fire is to be
kindled.



 



 



SEC. 57.307.6.  OUTDOOR BURNING REQUIREMENTS.



 



   The Chief may issue a special permit pursuant to Section 57.105.8 of
this article to allow outdoor burning for the following purposes only:



 



   1.   The instruction of public employees in the methods of fighting
fires.



 



   2.   On property used for industrial purposes for the instruction of
employees in methods of firefighting.



 



   3.   For public gatherings under legitimate sponsorship of civic,
fraternal, religious, or other similar organizations.



 



   4.   For cooking in or upon the ground.



 



 



SEC. 57.307.6.1.  OUTDOOR BURNING DEVICES.



 



   No exterior fireplace, barbeque device, or other fuel burning device
intended for use for cooking or entertainment shall be deemed to be
restricted by the terms of Section 57.307.6 of this article.  The use of
such outdoor fireplaces, barbeques, and other similar type devices for the
burning or disposal of combustible waste or other unwanted combustible
material is prohibited.



 



 



SEC. 57.307.6.2.  LOCATION OF OUTDOOR BURNING DEVICES.



 



   The location of every permanently installed outdoor burning device
which is a separate structure to be used for cooking, decoration or
entertainment, and within 10 feet of a building shall be approved by the
Chief.



 



 



SEC. 57.307.7.  EXERCISE OF CAUTION WITH FIRE.



 



   No person shall construct, erect, install, locate, equip, maintain, or
use any incinerator, exterior fireplace or barbeque device, or burn any
combustible material so as to constitute or occasion a fire hazard by the
use, or burning thereof, or as to endanger the life or property of any person
thereby.



 



 



SEC. 57.308.  OPEN FLAMES.



 



   Section 308 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



   Section 308.1.4 of the 2015 IFC is not adopted.



 



 



SEC. 57.308.2.1.  SPECIAL PERMIT.



 



   Open flame devices such as exposed candles shall not be permitted in
any Group A, E or I, occupancy except by authority of a special permit from
the Chief pursuant to Section 57.105.8 of this article.



 



 



SEC. 57.308.6.  HAZARDOUS ATMOSPHERE.



 



   No open flame or flame-producing device shall be located, maintained,
or used in any hazardous atmosphere unless specifically approved by authority
of a special permit from the Chief pursuant to Section 57.105.8 of this
article.



 



 



SEC. 57.308.7.  FLAME THROWERS.



 



   Flame throwers and artisan use of flame producing devices shall be in
compliance with Sections 57.308.7.1 through 57.308.7.3.



 



 



SEC. 57.308.7.1.  SALE OF FLAME THROWERS.



 



   No person shall sell or offer for sale, or rent or offer for rent, or
use, operate, demonstrate, or discharge any flame thrower anywhere or at any
time within the Municipality, except as approved by the Chief.



 



 



SEC. 57.308.7.2.  THROWING FLAMMABLE MATERIAL.



 



   No person shall throw, toss, fling, project, or propel any flammable
material when ignited, with an igniter, or intended to be ignited toward or
to any aiming point or auxiliary aiming point, except by express permission
of the Chief.



 



 



SEC. 57.308.7.3.  ARTISAN USE OF FLAME PRODUCING DEVICES.



 



   The provisions of this section shall not be deemed to apply to flame
producing or heating devices normally used by artisans in the pursuit of
their trade.



 



 



SEC. 57.309.  POWERED INDUSTRIAL TRUCKS AND EQUIPMENT.



 



   Section 309 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.309.7.  SOURCES OF IGNITION.



 



   No person shall operate an industrial truck in areas where flammable
liquids or Class II combustible liquids are used, stored, or processed
without the vehicle being equipped and maintained in accordance with NFPA 505.



 



 



SEC. 57.310.  SMOKING.



 



   Section 310 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.310.9.  DESIGNATION OF SMOKING AREAS.



 



   Where conditions exist which are found to make smoking a hazard in any
area on piers, wharves, industrial plants, or in open spaces where
combustible materials are stored or handled, the Chief shall direct the owner
or occupant, in writing, to post “NO SMOKING” signs on each building,
structure, room, or place in which smoking shall be prohibited.  The Chief
shall designate specific safe locations, if necessary, in any place in which
smoking may be permitted.  Such signs shall be in contrasting color, with
lettering not less than 3 inches in height.



 



 



SEC. 57.311.  VACANT PREMISES.



 



   Section 311 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.311.1.3.  PENALTIES AND MINIMUM FINES.



 



   Violation of Sections 57.311.1 through 57.311.1.2 shall be subject to
penalties and minimum fines as prescribed in Section 57.109.4.2 and Table
57.109.4.



 



 



SEC. 57.311.2.4.  PENALTIES AND MINIMUM FINES.



 



   Violation of Sections 57.311.2 through 57.311.2.3 shall be subject to
penalties and minimum fines as prescribed in Section 57.109.4.2 and Table
57.109.4.



 



 



SEC. 57.311.3.1.  PENALTIES AND MINIMUM FINES.



 



   Violation of Section 57.311.3 shall be subject to penalties and minimum
fines as prescribed in Section 57.109.4.2 and Table 57.109.4c.



 



 



SEC. 57.311.4.1.  PENALTIES AND MINIMUM FINES.



 



   Violation of Section 57.311.4 shall be subject to penalties and minimum
fines as prescribed in Section 57.109.4.2 and Table 57.109.4.



 



 



SEC. 57.312.  VEHICLE IMPACT PROTECTION.



 



   Section 312 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.313.  FUELED EQUIPMENT.



 



   Section 313 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.313.3.  EXHAUST PROTECTION FOR INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINES.



 



   Exhaust protection for internal combustion engines shall comply with
Sections 57.313.3.1 and 57.313.3.2.



 



 



SEC. 57.313.3.1.  SPARK ARRESTORS.



 



   No person shall use or operate an internal combustion engine on or near
grain, hay, grass, or brush-covered land, or where flammable fibers are
stored, manufactured, or processed, unless the engine is equipped with an
approved spark arrester that complies with the requirements of United States
Forest Service “Standard for Spark Arresters for Internal Combustion
Engines” (Standard 5100-1B, July 1991).



 



 



SEC. 57.313.3.2.  EXHAUST SYSTEM MAINTENANCE.



 



   Spark arresters and the exhaust systems of engines or vehicles subject
to this section shall be maintained in effective working order and not be
affixed or mounted in such a manner as to allow flames or heat from the
exhaust system to ignite any flammable material.



 



 



SEC. 57.314.  INDOOR DISPLAYS.



 



   Section 314 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.314.4.1.  SPECIAL PERMIT.



 



   No person shall exhibit, store or use any motor vehicle, marine craft
or aircraft engine in any assembly occupancy except by authority of a Special
Permit from the Chief pursuant to Section 57.105.8 of this article.



 



 



SEC. 57.315.  GENERAL STORAGE.



 



   Section 315 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.315.3.5.  AREA DIVISIONS.



 



   Every building used for storing combustibles shall be divided into
storage piles within single storage areas by providing main aisles and side
aisles.



 



   EXCEPTION:  Storage piles within a single storage area of 5,000 square
feet or less may be divided by side aisles, provided no storage pile is
greater than 15,000 cubic feet.



 



 



SEC. 57.315.3.6.  AREA SEPARATIONS.



 



   There shall be no materials stored within a storage pile more than 50
feet from a main aisle and not more than 15 feet from a side aisle; and
further, any storage pile over 50 feet in length shall be bordered on at
least two sides by main aisles.  Any storage pile shall be limited to a
maximum length of 100 feet.



 



 



SEC. 57.315.3.7.  HEIGHT LIMITATIONS.



 



   Height limitations shall comply with Sections 57.315.3.7.1 through
57.315.3.7.3.



 



 



SEC. 57.315.3.7.1.  SHELVING OR RACKS.



 



   Storage shelving or racks more than 5 feet 9 inches in height shall be
designed and constructed in accordance with Chapter 9 of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code (Building Code) and the requirements of this article.



 



 



SEC. 57.315.3.7.2.  RATIO TO THE WIDTH.



 



   The height of piles of materials, tiers of shelving, or racks shall be
maintained in ratio to the width of the aisles. With minimum main or side
aisle width, the height shall not exceed 15 feet.  When the height is
increased, the main and side aisles shall be increased in width 3 inches for
each foot of increased height.



 



 



SEC. 57.315.3.7.3.  WOOD PALLETS AND/OR NON-EXPANDED POLYETHYLENE SOLID DECK
PALLETS.



 



   Wood pallets and/or non-expanded polyethylene solid deck pallets shall
be stored no higher than 6 feet.  Each pallet pile (four individual stacks
of pallets) shall be separated from other pallet piles by a minimum distance
of 8 feet and from the storage of other commodities by 25 feet.



 



 



SEC. 57.315.3.8.  CLEARANCE FROM EXPOSURES.



 



   Clearance from exposures shall comply with Sections 57.315.3.8.1
through 57.315.3.8.4.



 



 



SEC. 57.315.3.8.1.  STORED MATERIALS AND LIGHTING FIXTURES.



 



   A clearance of at least 18 inches shall be maintained between stored
materials and lighting fixtures.



 



 



SEC. 57.315.3.8.2.  MATERIALS WHICH MAY SWELL OR EXPAND.



 



   An unobstructed clearance of at least 2 feet shall be maintained
between stored materials, which may swell or expand with the absorption of
water, and building walls.



 



 



SEC. 57.315.3.8.3.  MATERIALS SUSCEPTIBLE TO WATER DAMAGE.



 



   Materials which are particularly susceptible to water damage shall be
stored on skids, dunnage, pallets, or elevated platforms, maintaining at
least 4 inches of clearance from the floor.



 



 



SEC. 57.315.3.8.4.  DRAINAGE OF FLOOR.



 



   Stored materials shall be arranged so as to allow drainage of floor
areas through floor drains or wall scuppers.



 



 



SEC. 57.315.3.9.  MATERIAL-HANDLING EQUIPMENT.



 



   Motorized material-handling equipment shall be of a type designed for
use in accordance with the hazards of the location in which it is used in
compliance with NFPA 505.  It shall be serviced, repaired, and stored in
other than single storage areas.



 



 



SEC. 57.315.3.10.  RELATED ACTIVITIES.



 



   An area used for non-storage activities shall be separated from the
storage area by a minimum distance of 10 feet when non-storage activities
include repairing of crates, boxes, and containers and repacking operations.



 



 



SEC. 57.315.3.11.  AISLE MAINTENANCE.



 



   Aisle maintenance shall conform to the following:



 



   1.   Aisles and entrances shall be kept free of storage and
equipment not being handled or operated.



 



   2.   Storage piling and blocking shall be maintained to prevent
materials from accidentally falling into aisles or clearance areas.



 



   3.   Stored materials shall not be piled so as to create overhanging
or bridging of main aisles or side aisles.



 



   4.   Hazardous refuse shall be removed from aisles and properly
stored or disposed of in accordance with Section 304 of this article.



 



 



SEC. 57.315.3.12.  STORAGE AREA PROHIBITIONS.



 



   Storage area prohibitions shall comply with Sections 57.315.3.12.1
through 57.315.3.12.6.



 



 



SEC. 57.315.3.12.1.  STORAGE ON ROOFS.



 



   The use of a building roof for the storing, processing, producing,
packing, or packaging of any type of materials is prohibited.



 



   EXCEPTION:  Buildings which have been specifically planned and
constructed in accordance with Chapter 9 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code
(Building Code) to utilize roof areas for such purposes.



 



 



SEC. 57.315.3.12.2.  PROHIBITED STORAGE.



 



   The storing or keeping of any combustible merchandise, materials, or
equipment in any subfloor area, attic, boiler room, mechanical room, heating
equipment room, water heater closet or electrical panel room in a manner
which would create or constitute a fire hazard is prohibited.



 



 



SEC. 57.315.3.12.3.  SPACE UNDER STAIRWAYS.



 



   There shall be no enclosed usable space under stairways in an exit
enclosure (enclosed stairshafts serving three or more stories), nor shall the
open space under such stairways be used for any purpose.



 



   EXCEPTION:  Space under exterior stairways and interior stairways
shall not be used for any purpose except when the usable space under stairs
is enclosed and walls and soffits are protected on the enclosed side as
required for one-hour fire-resistive construction in accordance with Chapter
9 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code (Building Code).



 



 



SEC. 57.315.3.12.4.  SPONTANEOUS HEATING.



 



   The placing or arranging of any combustible materials in any single
storage area in a manner which may cause or contribute to spontaneous heating
of the material is prohibited.



 



 



SEC. 57.315.3.12.5.  INCOMPATIBLE MATERIALS.



 



   The placing or arranging together in any single storage area of
materials having incompatible characteristics is prohibited.



 



 



SEC. 57.315.3.12.6.  BASEMENT STORAGE.



 



   The storage of combustible material in basements shall be prohibited
except in those basements which are protected by an automatic sprinkler
system in accordance with Chapter 9 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code
(Plumbing Code).  Such material shall not be stored in a manner which
creates a fire hazard.



 



 



SEC. 57.315.4.3.  YARDS.



 



   All yards required by Chapter 9 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code
(Building Code) shall be maintained unoccupied and unobstructed by the
storage of combustible materials.



 



 



SEC. 57.315.4.4.  SINGLE STORAGE AREAS.



 



   Single storage areas shall be regulated as follows:



 



   1.   Areas shall be separated from property lines, streets, alleys,
or public way by side aisles.



 



   2.   Areas shall be separated from other single storage areas by an
access driveway.



 



   3.   Single storage areas shall be divided into storage piles by
means of access driveways, main aisles, and side aisles.



 



   4.   Each single storage area shall have access to a public street
and the width of such access shall not be less than 20 feet.



 



   5.   Storage piles within single storage areas shall be not more
than 1,500 square feet in ground area.



 



   6.   All storage piles shall be within 150 feet of travel to access
driveways.



 



   7.   Storage piles shall be within 65 feet of a main aisle.



 



   8.   Storage piles shall be a minimum of 15 feet from openings in
buildings.



 



   9.   Main aisles shall be accessible to access driveways.



 



   10.   Storage piles shall be a minimum of 15 feet from buildings
having exterior walls of less than two-hour fire- resistive construction.



 



 



SEC. 57.315.4.5.  DRAINAGE.



 



   Stored material shall be arranged to facilitate and promote drainage
away from such stored materials and buildings.



 



 



SEC. 57.315.4.6.  MAINTENANCE AND HOUSEKEEPING.



 



   Maintenance and housekeeping in outside storage areas shall conform to
the following:



 



   1.   Material-handling equipment shall be serviced, repaired, and
stored in non-storage areas.



 



   2.   No person shall smoke, throw or deposit any lighted or
smoldering substance in any place where “NO SMOKING” signs are posted or
in any other place where smoking would occasion or constitute a fire
hazard.  The owner or operator or person in charge or control shall be
responsible for the control of smoking.  Areas shall be designated where
smoking is permitted and equipped with receptacles for smoking refuse. 
“NO SMOKING” and “SMOKING PERMITTED” signs shall be posted where
appropriate.



 



   3.   Aisles, driveways, and entrances shall be kept free of storage
and equipment not being handled or operated.



 



   4.   Stored or piled materials shall be maintained in such a manner
as to prevent displacement into aisles or adjacent areas.



 



   5.   Stored materials shall not be piled so as to create overhanging
or bridging of driveways, main aisles or side aisles.



 



 



SEC. 57.316.  HAZARDS TO FIRE FIGHTERS.



 



   Section 316 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.316.4.1.  BUILDING ROOFS.



 



   Obstructions on building roof, parapet walls and wall openings, which
are determined by the Chief to be a fire/life safety hazard, shall comply
with Sections 57.316.4.1 through 57.316.4.4.



 



   EXCEPTION:  Fences over 6 feet high, tanks and towers.



 



 



SEC. 57.316.4.2.  OBSTRUCTIONS.



 



   No person shall install or maintain any wire, barbed wire, razor
ribbon, fence, cable, aerial, antenna, or other obstruction on any building
roof, parapet wall, or openings in an exterior wall required for Fire
Department access, in such a manner as to obstruct access or egress, or cause
a hazardous condition in the event of fire or other emergency.



 



   EXCEPTIONS:



 



   1.   Guy wires, rods, aerial or antenna masts may be attached to a
roof structure having a slope of less than 30 degrees provided there is full
clearance of 7 feet or more between the roof and said obstruction.



 



   2.   Guy wires or rods required to support aerial or antenna masts
may be attached to a roof structure a lateral distance from the mast not in
excess of 1/6 the height of the mast.



 



   3.   Metal bars, grills, grates, or similar products manufactured to
restrict entry through windows or exterior doors may be installed in
accordance with Chapter 9 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code (Building Code).



 



   4.   Buildings located within eight feet of utility poles or similar
structures which could otherwise be used to gain access to the building’s
roof, balcony or similar surfaces.  Such obstruction may extend to where the
surfaces are more than 8 feet from the pole or access structure but shall
extend no farther.



 



 



SEC. 57.316.4.2.1.  PENALTIES AND MINIMUM FINES.



 



   Violation of Section 57.316.4.2 shall be subject to penalties and
minimum fines as prescribed in Section 57.109.4.2 and Table 57.109.4.



 



 



SEC. 57.316.4.3.  STORAGE ON ROOFS.



 



   No person shall cause to be placed, stored, or maintained upon any roof
or balcony any hazardous materials or any material or object which may
interfere with egress or Fire Department operations in case of fire or other
emergency.



 



 



SEC. 57.316.4.4.  PASSAGEWAYS ON ROOFS.



 



   No person shall obstruct required access passageways on the roof
surface.  An unobstructed passageway for use by the Fire Department shall be
provided through or around any approved structures or equipment installations
on the roof surface.  One access passageway shall be provided for every
50-feet length, or fraction thereof, of roof surface.  Passageways shall be
at least 3 feet wide and have at least 7 feet of overhead clearance.



 



 



SEC. 57.317.  ROOFTOP GARDENS AND LANDSCAPED ROOFS.



 



   Section 317 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.318.  LAUNDRY CARTS.



 



   Section 318 of the IFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.319.  ROAD TUNNELS, BRIDGES, AND OTHER LIMITED ACCESS HIGHWAYS [SFM].



 



   Section 319 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.  ASBESTOS ABATEMENT.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.1.  SCOPE.



 



   This section sets forth the minimum fire and life safety requirements
for the removal of asbestos containing materials including, but not limited
to, fire protective coatings.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.2.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   The following words or group of words, when used in this section, shall
be defined as follows:



 



   Asbestos Abatement.  Removal of any asbestos containing material.



 



   Asbestos Containing Material (ACM).  Any material containing .1
percent or more dry weight asbestos.



 



   Clean Room.  The room immediately adjacent to the work area from which
the work area is accessed.



 



   Containment Area.  Any area where critical barriers are taped and
access is not possible without respiratory protection.



 



   Contractor.  The licensed contractor performing the asbestos abatement.



 



   Job Start. The abatement job begins with the taping of critical
barriers.



 



   HEPA Filter. High Efficiency Particulate Air Filters.



 



   Negative Air Machine. A filtering machine whose primary purpose is to
maintain a negative atmosphere in the containment area during the asbestos
abatement process.



 



   Respray. Reapplication of an approved fire protective coating.



 



   SCAQMD. South Coast Air Quality Management District.



 



   VAT.  Vinyl Asbestos Floor Tile.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.3.  INSPECTIONS.



 



   The Fire Department and Department of Building and Safety will, at
their discretion, inspect the work sites for compliance with the requirements
contained in this section.  All approvals are subject to field inspection.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.4.  PERMITS REQUIRED.



 



   A Fire Department Specific Action or Project Permit listed in Section
57.105.7 is required to conduct any asbestos removal which reduces the fire
resistiveness of any building, or results in the removal of 100 square feet
or more of Asbestos Containing Material (ACM).  Residential dwelling
structures of four units or less shall be exempt.  For the purpose of this
regulation, ACM which is expressed in linear feet shall be computed and
reported as a total equivalent surface area in square feet.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.4.1.  LICENSE REQUIRED.



 



   The licensed contractor performing the asbestos abatement shall obtain
the required permit and shall pay all required fees.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.4.2.  DURATION OF PERMIT.



 



   A permit for asbestos abatement is good for 180 days from the date of
issuance and only for the specific project for which it is issued.  Any
project which is not completed within that period of time shall require a new
permit.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.4.3.  COLLECTION OF FEE.



 



   Permit fees shall be collected by the Fire Department upon application
for a permit.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.4.4.  PLANS REQUIRED.



 



   Three 8-1/2" x 11" copies of a plot plan depicting all areas undergoing
abatement, drawn to scale, shall be provided by the contractor at the time of
permit application.



 



   The following shall be included in the drawing:



 



   1.   Each drawing must show the entire floor area, with north
indicated at the top, and clearly indicate the area(s) undergoing abatement
by outlining in red.



 



   2.   All entrances and exits for each containment area must be
shown.  Any exit which is blocked by the containment shall have the word
“BLOCKED” printed next to it.



 



   3.   Location of each negative air machine shall be indicated.



 



   4.   Location of the negative air machine emergency shut-off switch
shall be shown.



 



   5.   Location of emergency Fire Department protective entry clothing
shall be shown.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.4.5.  PERMITS OBTAINED.



 



   Permits for asbestos abatement shall be obtained at the Engineering
counter of the Bureau of Fire Prevention and Public Safety at least ten
calendar days prior to the beginning of the job.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.4.6.  FEES.



 



   Before accepting an application for any permit required by Section
57.320, the Department will collect the fees established by the most current
cost-recovery schedule published, as provided by Section 57.113.6.3 and
applicable thereto.  Fees established by the procedure set forth in Section
57.113.6.3 of this article shall apply to permits for all occupancies at the
rate of, a flat rate $300, plus nine cents per square foot of ACM abated over
1,000 square feet.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.5.  NOTIFICATION AND MAINTENANCE OF INFORMATION.



 



   Notification and maintenance of information shall be in accordance with
Sections 57.320.5.1 through 57.320.5.3.1.1.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.5.1.  SCAQMD RULE 1403 NOTIFICATION FORM.



 



   The licensed contractor performing the abatement process shall submit
to the Los Angeles Fire Department three properly completed copies of the
SCAQMD Rule 1403 Notification Form, or separate sheets containing the same
information, at the time of application for the permit to remove the ACM.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.5.2.  COMPLETION OF PERMITTED WORK.



 



   A separate letter shall be mailed by the contractor to the Fire
Department within 48 hours of the completion of permitted work stating that
the removal of asbestos is complete and that all removed fireproofing has
been replaced, including all required respray, in a manner approved by the
Department of Building and Safety.  This letter shall be signed by the
contractor or by any subcontractor performing the respray.  If the
contractor does not perform the respray, or cause the respray to be performed
by a subcontractor, the contractor shall forward a letter to the Fire
Department within 48 hours of the completion of the work stating that the
removal of the asbestos is complete; that all required fireproofing has been
replaced, if applicable, excluding respray; and stating the name of the
contractor hired to do the respray.  If the name of the contractor hired to
do the respray is unavailable, the letter shall so state.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.5.3.  MAINTENANCE OF PLANS.



 



   Plans described in Section 57.320.4 shall be kept by the contractor in
a clearly identified three-ring loose-leaf binder located in the building’s
Fire Control Room, at the building’s staffed security desk if no Fire
Control Room exists, or if neither of these locations exists, at a location
approved by the Fire Department.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.5.3.1.  EMERGENCY INFORMATION.



 



   The loose leaf binder shall be updated daily and used exclusively to
provide the Fire Department with accurate emergency information.  The binder
shall also include an introduction page, containing the information set forth
in Section 57.320.5.3.1.1.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.5.3.1.1.  INTRODUCTION PAGE.



 



   1.   The name, address, and business and emergency phone numbers for
the:



 



   a.   Asbestos Contractor.



 



   b.   Respray Contractor.



 



   c.   Project Consultant.



 



   d.   Job Superintendent.



 



   2.   Start and completion dates for the abatement project, including
respray.



 



   3.   Regular working days and working hours.



 



   4.   Job site and phone number.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.6.  FIRE RETARDANT / NON COMBUSTIBLE MATERIALS.



 



   All plastics, spray-on strippable coatings, and structural materials
used in the asbestos abatement process must be certified as fire retardant or
non-combustible.  This includes, but is not limited to, plastic sheeting,
temporary structures, separations, supports, and scaffolding.  Wood which is
pressure impregnated and certified as fire retardant is acceptable.  All
pressure impregnated wood used shall be stamped by the approved applicator
(CCR Title 19, Division 1, Chapter 8, Article 5) as being fire retardant, and
the stamp on the wood shall be visible upon inspection.  Material Safety
Data Sheets (MSDS) provided by the manufacturer shall be maintained at the
job site for all fire retardant plastics and shall be made available upon
request by the Fire Department.



 



   EXCEPTION:  Tape used to hang poly and to tape critical barriers need
not be fire retardant.  Plexiglas used for viewing ports into the work area
need not be fire retardant provided the ports are not larger than 4 square
feet and have a total aggregate area of less than 40 square feet.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.7.  EXITS.



 



   The asbestos abatement process shall not cause a building to have an
amount of exiting less than that required for the existing occupant load. 
In all cases where the required exiting must be obstructed, an alternate
means of exiting must be provided which is approved by the Fire Department
and the Department of Building and Safety.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.7.1.  MINIMUM EXITS.



 



   A minimum of two clearly marked exits shall be maintained from each
floor during the abatement process.  The second exit from a containment area
may be covered with plastic upon approval of the Fire Department and the
Department of Building and Safety.  The covered exit shall be outlined with
RED duct-type tape, and a cutting device shall be kept immediately adjacent
to the door in an obvious and readily accessible location.  The cutting
device shall also be surrounded by a square of red duct-type tape as
described above.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.7.2.  OBSTRUCTION OF EXIT.



 



   At no time shall the asbestos abatement process involve, block, impede,
or obstruct any stairwell in a multistory building.  Any asbestos abatement
plan involving any stairwell must be approved by the field inspector before
commencing work on that stairwell.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.7.3.  NON-CONTAMINATED AREA.



 



   At least one stairwell door shall open into a non-contaminated area of
a floor under containment, regardless of the size of containment.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.8.  ALLOWABLE LOCATIONS.



 



   Allowable locations shall comply with Sections 57.320.8.1 through
57.320.8.3.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.8.1.  MULTISTORY BUILDINGS.



 



   In multistory buildings where more than 25% of the floor area is
undergoing abatement, or under demolition in preparation for abatement, the
following shall apply:



 



   1.   Asbestos abatement is permitted on a floor-by-floor basis,
provided that no two consecutive floors are undergoing active abatement
simultaneously.  A maximum of every other floor, up to a total of three
floors out of five, is permitted.



 



   2.   A minimum of five clean buffer floors must separate each group
from the next five-floor group undergoing abatement.



 



   3.   Buffer floors must have all required fire and life safety
equipment and fire protective coatings in place.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.8.2.  SINGLE-STORY BUILDINGS.



 



   In single-story buildings, a maximum of 50% of the total floor space
may be under active abatement at any one time.  Required legal exiting shall
be maintained.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.8.3.  UNOCCUPIED BUILDINGS.



 



   Unoccupied buildings may be allowed greater latitude during the
abatement process.  Any variance from the provisions of this section will be
considered on a case-by-case basis.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.9.  SIGNAGE.



 



   In addition to the warning signs mandated by other regulatory agencies,
the following asbestos abatement signs are required, pursuant to Sections
57.320.9.1 through 57.320.9.2.2.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.9.1.  MULTISTORY BUILDINGS.



 



   Additional asbestos abatement signs are required.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.9.1.1.  FIRE CONTROL ROOM/FIRE COMMAND CENTER.



 



   A standard 20" x 14" red, black, and white asbestos abatement warning
sign placed in the Fire Control Room/Fire Command Center adjacent to the fire
alarm annunciator panel.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.9.1.1.1.  FLOORS INVOLVED.



 



   A 12" x 12" sign with a minimum 3" high x 1/2" wide lettering on a
contrasting background indicating which floors are involved in the abatement
process.  This sign shall be placed in the Fire Control Room/Fire Command
Center adjacent to the fire alarm annunciator panel.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.9.1.2.  NO FIRE CONTROL ROOM/FIRE COMMAND CENTER.



 



   If no Fire Control Room/Fire Command Center exists, the warning signs
required and described in Sections 57.320.9.1.1 and 57.320.9.1.1.1 above
shall be placed adjacent to the building’s fire alarm annunciator panel, or
in a location approved by the Fire Department.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.9.1.3.  STAIRWAY LANDINGS.



 



   An additional set of signs as described in both Sections 57.320.9.1.1
and 57.320.9.1.1.1 shall be placed on each landing in each stairwell which
leads to any floors undergoing abatement:



 



   1.   Beginning two floors below the affected floor.



 



   2.   On the floor above the affected floor.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.9.2.  SINGLE-STORY BUILDINGS.



 



   Additional asbestos abatement signs are required.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.9.2.1.  FIRE CONTROL ROOM/FIRE COMMAND CENTER.



 



   A standard 20" x 14" red, black, and white asbestos abatement warning
sign placed in the Fire Control Room/Fire Command Center adjacent to the fire
alarm annunciator panel.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.9.2.2.  NO FIRE CONTROL ROOM.



 



   If no Fire Control Room exists, the warning signs required and
described in Subsections B1 and B2 above shall be placed adjacent to the
building’s fire alarm annunciator panel or in an alternate location
approved by the Fire Department.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.10.  FIRE PROTECTION EQUIPMENT.



 



   Fire Protective equipment shall be maintained in compliance with
Sections 57.320.10.1 through 57.320.10.3.4.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.10.1.  EXTINGUISHERS.



 



   A minimum of one 4A/60BC dry chemical extinguisher shall be maintained
at each of the following locations:



 



   1.   At each electrical panel.



 



   2.   At each corner of the work area.  Where no clear corners
exist, four extinguishers shall be placed around the outermost wall of the
work area so that they are evenly spread around the perimeter of the
outermost wall.



 



   3.   Within 5 feet of the external entry to the shower room from the
work area.



 



   4.   Within 5 feet of the external entry to the shower room from the
clean room.



 



   5.   The maximum distance of travel to an extinguisher shall be no
greater than 75 feet.



 



   EXCEPTION:  Where the total abatement containment area is less than
1,000 square feet, one 4A/60BC extinguisher shall be provided maximum
distance of travel to an extinguisher shall be no greater than 75 feet.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.10.1.1.  SIGNAGE.



 



   All extinguisher locations shall be clearly identified with appropriate
signage.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.10.2.  FIRE SUPPRESSION SYSTEMS.



 



   All existing sprinkler systems shall remain active and unobstructed. 
Sprinkler heads may be covered with a thin, .003" or less, plastic bag during
abatement to avoid their contamination.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.10.3.  FIRE DETECTION AND SIGNALING SYSTEMS.



 



   All existing fire detection and alarm systems shall remain in place and
active.  Any alteration to this equipment must be approved by both the Fire
Department and the Department of Building and Safety.  If a permit is
granted for work that requires the system to be disabled, a Fire Watch
meeting all the requirements listed in Section 57.916.5 of the Fire Code must
be maintained at all times as described in Section 57.320.18.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.10.3.1.  MANUAL FIRE ALARM BOXES, COMMUNICATION JACKS, AND
SIGNALING SYSTEMS.



 



   Existing fire alarm manual fire alarm boxes, Fire Department
communication jacks, and signaling systems shall be maintained in place and
active.  The foregoing items shall be clearly marked with signs containing
lettering which is a minimum of 3" high x 1/2" wide on a contrasting
background.  If the foregoing items are covered by plastic, each device
shall be surrounded by a square of red duct-type tape.  In addition, a
cutting device, also surrounded by a square of red duct-type tape, shall be
kept immediately adjacent to the device.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.10.3.2.  SYSTEMS DISCONNECTED.



 



   All fire and life safety systems which have been disconnected require
joint acceptance by the Fire Department and the Department of Building and
Safety upon their reconnection.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.10.3.3.  FIRE-RATED PARTITIONS, DOORS.



 



   Fire-rated partitions, doors, and other fire cutoffs shall not be
temporarily or permanently modified without the joint approval of the Fire
Department and the Department of Building and Safety.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.10.3.4.  ELEVATOR SMOKE DETECTOR.



 



   In the event that a containment area impedes the normal operation of
any existing elevator smoke detector, an additional temporary elevator recall
smoke detector shall be installed in the containment area under permit from
the Department of Building and Safety.  Any such detector must be tested by
the Fire Department before any abatement work begins in that area.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.11.  COMMUNICATIONS.



 



   Communications shall be provided as required in Sections 57.320.11.1
through 57.320.11.1.3.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.11.1.  TELEPHONE REQUIRED.



 



   A minimum of one telephone shall be provided for contacting emergency
personnel in containment areas greater than 1,000 square feet.  The
telephone shall be located in the clean room adjacent to the exit from the
decontamination area.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.11.1.1.  ALTERNATIVE LOCATIONS.



 



   If it is not practical to install a phone in the clean room, a
telephone on the same floor or level is acceptable, provided that there are
no doors between the telephone and the clean room that have any type of
locking mechanism on them or impede access to the phone in any manner.  This
phone shall not be more than 100 lineal feet along the path of travel from
the clean room.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.11.1.2.  IN LIEU OF A TELEPHONE.



 



   In lieu of a telephone in the clean room, radio communications may be
provided with personnel who have immediate access to a telephone.  Radios
shall be located as described in Section 57.320.11.1 above.  A complete set
of charged spare radio batteries shall be provided.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.11.1.3.  ALTERNATE MEANS OF COMMUNICATION.



 



   All alternate means of communication other than a telephone are subject
to field inspector approval.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.12.  EMERGENCY PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT.



 



   Protective entry suits shall be provided, as required in Sections
57.320.12.1 and 57.320.12.1.1.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.12.1.  PROTECTIVE ENTRY SUITS.



 



   In all containment areas greater than 1,000 square feet, five
“Tyvek” type protective entry suits, rated for use in an asbestos
containment area, shall be provided in the clean room.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.12.1.1.  SUITS REQUIREMENT.



 



   All suits shall be extra-large and shall be kept in a red box clearly
identified with white 3" letters stating, “Fire Department Emergency Use
Only.”  The box shall be readily accessible at all times.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.13.  VIEWING PORTS.



 



   All areas of any containment site shall be visible by use of viewing
ports from an uncontaminated area.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.13.1.  VIEWING PORT SIZE.



 



   Viewing ports shall be at least 18" x 18" in size and shall be of clear
Plexiglas or other similar clear material.  Opaque material is not
acceptable for use as viewing ports.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.14.  EMERGENCY SHUTDOWN OF NEGATIVE AIR EQUIPMENT.



 



   Emergency shutdown of negative air equipment shall comply with Sections
57.320.14.1 through 57.320.14.2.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.14.1.  EMERGENCY SHUTDOWN.



 



   A single switch or set of switches shall be provided for the emergency
shutdown of all negative air equipment located in the containment area. 
This switch or set of switches:



 



   1.   Shall be for emergency use by Fire Department personnel.



 



   2.   Shall be located in a non-contaminated area near the exit from
the decontamination station and shall be clearly identified using a sign with
minimum 3" high x 1/2" wide lettering on a contrasting background.  The sign
shall read “NEGATIVE AIR MASTER SHUT-OFF.”



 



 



SEC. 57.320.14.2.  TEMPORARY POWER.



 



   All temporary power for the negative air equipment from the building
shall be installed and inspected under permit from the Department of Building
and Safety.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.15.  RUBBISH AND DEBRIS.



 



   All combustible rubbish and debris, including, but not limited to,
properly bagged asbestos, shall be removed and properly disposed of at the
end of each working day, or 24-hour period if work is continuous 24 hours a
day.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.16.  RESPRAY OF FIRE PROTECTIVE COATINGS.



 



   1.   Respray of fire protective coatings shall be completed within
15 days after receipt of the final air-monitoring clearance.  All areas
where fire protective coatings have been removed, including areas that have
been cored or spot abated to facilitate the placement of pipe hangers, etc.,
shall be returned to the degree of fire resistiveness as prescribed by the
Department of Building and Safety.



 



   2.   The building owner shall cause the respray of all fire
protective coatings to be accomplished under permit from the Department of
Building and Safety within 15 days of the contractor receiving final
air-monitoring clearance.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.17.  FIRE SAFETY COORDINATOR.



 



   In all asbestos abatement projects, regardless of size, one on-site
supervisor selected by the contractor shall be designated as the Safety
Coordinator and shall be responsible for the following:



 



   1.   Educating on-site personnel in general safety procedures.



 



   2.   Insuring that on-site personnel are aware of the location and
proper use of all extinguishers and other fire and life safety equipment.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.18.  FIRE SAFETY WATCH.



 



   Where the abatement project is 1,000 square feet or more, or whenever
any of the fire protective coating of the building’s structural members is
removed, the following shall apply:



 



   1.   A person shall be selected by the contractor to function as a
Fire Watch.  The Fire Watch may perform only duties which are specifically
related to the security and fire safety of the overall work area.



 



   2.   The Fire Watch must inspect every area of the work site every
30 minutes during working hours for fire and life safety problems and shall
continue such inspections a minimum of 30 minutes after the cessation of work.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.18.1.  LOG.



 



   A fire and life safety log must be maintained by the designated Fire
Watch as follows:



 



   1.   The log must be maintained from the beginning of the abatement
process until the final clean air certification is received.



 



   2.   When fire protective coating has been removed from structural
members, the log shall be maintained until all respray is complete.



 



   3.   The log shall be used solely for the recording of fire and life
safety information and shall be kept at the work site in the clean room at
all times.  It shall be available for review by Fire Department
representatives.



 



   4.   The log shall be a bound notebook or three-ring binder and
shall contain the information set forth in Section 57.320.18.1.1 for each
working day.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.18.1.1.  INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THE LOG.



 



   1.   The date.



 



   2.   The name and title of the assigned Fire Watch.



 



   3.   The area assigned to each Fire Watch.



 



   4.   The actual start and stop time of each patrol and the name of
the Fire Watch person conducting that patrol.



 



   5.   Entries describing any fire or life safety problem that was
found and how it was corrected.



 



   6.   A brief account of any fire incident, regardless of size,
including all facts, names of individuals involved, including witnesses, how
it was extinguished, and the probable cause.  Included shall be the time and
method of Fire Department notification.



 



   7.   A statement at the conclusion of each work day, signed by the
on-site Safety Coordinator, confirming that a survey of the work site has
been made and any unsafe fire and life safety conditions have been rectified.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.18.2.  ABSENCE OF APPROVED AUTOMATIC FIRE DETECTION SYSTEM.



 



   In the absence of a functioning, approved automatic fire detection
system connected to the building’s Central Alarm System in the area
undergoing abatement or respray, a Fire Watch shall be maintained on a
24-hour basis.  For this purpose, elevator smoke detectors shall not be
considered an approved fire detection system.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.18.3.  DURATION.



 



   The Fire Watch shall continue until the final clean air certification
is received and all respray is completed in buildings where fire protective
coatings have been removed.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.18.4.  FIRE WATCH DISCONTINUED.



 



   In abatement areas protected by a functioning, approved automatic fire
detection system connected to the building’s Central Alarm System, the Fire
Watch may be discontinued 30 minutes after the completion of each work day
under the following conditions:



 



   1.   The building’s Central Alarm System must be monitored on a
24-hour basis either by building security personnel or by an alarm company at
a remote location.



 



   2.   No structure, separation, or barriers set up for containment or
other purposes shall impede the proper operation of any detection device or
limit the intended area the device was installed to monitor.



 



   3.   Alternate fire alarm equipment requires the approval of the
Fire Department and the Department of Building and Safety.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.18.5.  OPEN FLAME.



 



   Any work requiring the use of open flame shall require a Fire Watch
standing by with a 4A/60BC extinguisher until the completion of the project.



 



 



SEC. 57.320.19.  SMOKING.



 



   Smoking shall not be permitted inside any asbestos abatement area or
within 25 feet of any asbestos abatement area.  Approved “NO SMOKING”
signs shall be conspicuously posted in accordance with Section 57.310.3.  It
shall be the responsibility of the asbestos abatement contractor to enforce
this prohibition.



 



 



SEC. 57.321.  PARADE FLOATS.



 



 



SEC. 57.321.1.  GENERAL.



 



   Parade floats using decorative materials attached to vehicles shall be
constructed of noncombustible or flame-retardant materials and shall be
safeguarded against open flame in accordance with the following provisions of
this section:



 



   All float decorations that are 1/8-inch thickness or less shall be
flame retardant, flame retardant treated, or noncombustible.  The use of
materials treated with tar or petroleum base flammable products or surfaced
or covered with lacquers, highly flammable paints, cellophane, and similar
materials is prohibited.  Paper, cloth, textiles and vegetation which may
occasion or constitute a fire hazard shall be rendered flame retardant.



 



   The use of open flame devices is prohibited unless approved in writing
by the Chief.  Smoke producing devices must be of the non-heating type. 
Exhaust pipes shall be extended beyond the display area and shall be properly
protected.



 



   All parade floats shall be provided with a portable fire extinguisher
with a minimum 2A:10B:C rating.  The extinguisher shall be readily
accessible to the operator.



 



 



SEC. 57.322.  SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS FOR HAZARDOUS VEGETATION.



 



 



SEC. 57.322.1.  GENERAL BRUSH CLEARANCE.



 



   No person who has any ownership or possessory interest in, or control
of, a parcel of land shall allow to exist thereon any hazardous refuse or
hazardous weeds, trees, or other vegetation which, by reason of proximity to
a building or structure, constitutes a fire hazard.  For purposes of this
section hazardous weeds, trees, or other vegetation are defined as weeds,
trees, or other vegetation which are in such condition and location as to
provide a ready fuel supply to augment the spread or intensity of a fire. 
Nothing contained in this subsection shall be deemed to preclude the Chief
from requiring more than the minimum specific requirements set forth above
when the Chief determines that conditions exist which necessitate greater
fire protection measures.



 



 



SEC. 57.322.1.1.  SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 185,789, Eff. 10/17/18.)



 



   Each person who has any ownership or possessory interest in, or control
of, a parcel of land shall comply with the requirements set forth in Sections
57.322.1.1.1 through 57.322.1.1.10.1.



 



 



SEC. 57.322.1.1.1.  VEGETATION WITHIN 100 FEET OF BUILDINGS.



 



   Remove from the property all dead trees, and maintain all weeds and
other vegetation at a height of no more than 3 inches, except as otherwise
provided therein, if such weeds or other vegetation are within 100 feet of a
building or structure located on such property or on adjacent property. 
This requirement does not apply to the maintenance of trees, ornamental
shrubbery or plants which are used as ground cover provided such do not
provide a ready fuel supply to augment the spread or intensity of a fire; nor
does it apply to a native shrub, provided such shrub is trimmed up from the
ground to 1/3 of its height; does not exceed 216 cubic feet in volume; is
spaced at a distance of not less than three times its maximum diameter, but
not less than 18 feet from the edge of any other native shrub, building or
structure; and all dead wood and other combustible material within 18 feet of
such shrub is removed except as provided above.



 



 



SEC. 57.322.1.1.2.  TREES WITHIN 100 FEET OF BUILDINGS.



 



   Maintain trees which are 18 feet or more in height and are within 100
feet of any building or structure or within 10 feet of that portion of any
highway, street, alley or driveway which is improved or used for vehicle
travel or other vehicular purposes, so that no leafy foliage, twigs, or
branches are within six feet of the ground.  Trees and shrubs less than 18
feet shall be trimmed up 1/3 their height.



 



 



SEC. 57.322.1.1.3.  CHIMNEY CLEARANCE.



 



   Remove any portion of a tree which extends within 10 feet of the outlet
of a chimney or stovepipe.



 



 



SEC. 57.322.1.1.4.  OVERHANGING BRANCHES.



 



   Keep all trees, shrubs, and other growing vegetation or portions
thereof adjacent to or overhanging any building or structure free of dead
limbs, branches and other combustible matter.  Maintain five feet of
vertical clearance between roof surfaces and portions of trees overhanging
any building or structure.



 



 



SEC. 57.322.1.1.5.  ROOF MAINTENANCE.



 



   Maintain the roofs of all buildings or structures free of leaves,
needles, twigs and other combustible matter.



 



 



SEC. 57.322.1.1.6.  ROAD AND FENCE CLEARANCE.



 



   Maintain all weeds and other vegetation located within 10 feet of any
combustible fence or an edge of that portion of any highway, street, alley or
driveway improved or used for vehicular travel or for other vehicular
purposes at a height of not more than 3 inches.  This shall not require the
removal of trees, ornamental shrubbery or plants which are used as ground
cover, provided such do not provide a ready fuel supply to augment the spread
or intensity of a fire, nor require the removal of native shrubs which meet
the requirements set forth in Section 57.322.1.1.1.



 



 



SEC. 57.322.1.1.7.  SECOND 100-FOOT MODIFICATION.



 



   Clear all hazardous vegetation and other combustible growth within the
first 100 feet surrounding structures as required by this section.  Reduce
the amount and/or modify the arrangement of hazardous vegetation within the
area comprising the second 100 feet for a total distance of 200 feet from any
structure unless otherwise specified by the Chief.  The work required shall
be set forth in the Notice of Noncompliance.



 



 



SEC. 57.322.1.1.8.  LANDSCAPE VEGETATION.



 



   Maintain all landscape vegetation, including, but not limited to,
conifers (e.g., cedar, cypress, fir, juniper, and pine), eucalyptus, acacia,
palm and pampas grass in such a condition as not to provide an available fuel
supply to augment the spread or intensity of a fire.  The Notice of
Noncompliance citing violations of this subsection will specify that such
landscape vegetation poses a threat to buildings or structures in the
vicinity and may cause them to be indefensible, and shall describe the work
required to be done.



 



 



SEC. 57.322.1.1.9.  GREATER FIRE PROTECTION MEASURES.



 



   Nothing contained in this subsection shall be deemed to preclude the
Chief from requiring more than the minimum specific requirements set forth
above when the Chief determines that conditions exist which necessitate
greater fire protection measures.



 



 



SEC. 57.322.1.1.10.  ADDITIONAL BRUSH CLEARANCE REQUIREMENTS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 185,789, Eff. 10/17/18.)



 



   All Individuals performing grass or brush clearance activities in the
VHFHSZ shall adhere to the following specific requirements:



 



   1.   Grass or brush clearance operations shall not be conducted on
red flag days.



 



   2.   Individuals engaged in grass or brush clearance operations
shall not engage in any other activities during their actual clearance of
grass or brush.



 



   3.   Individuals engaged in grass or brush clearance operations
shall use an appropriate extinguishing agent immediately to extinguish a fire.



 



   4.   All fires, regardless of size, shall be reported immediately
via the 9-1-1 system to the Fire Department.



 



   5.   A Class 2-A two (2) gallon water fire extinguisher, pressurized
garden hose with attached nozzle (fully open), or comparable pressurized
Class 2-A extinguishing device, shall be within 10 feet of any grass or brush
clearance operation.



 



   6.   Where a gasoline container is present at the site of the grass
or brush clearance operation, a minimum 4A 60 BC dry chemical fire
extinguisher shall be within 10 feet of the brush clearance operation.



 



   7.   A cell phone capable of dialing 9-1-1 shall be charged and
readily accessible to the grass or brush clearance operation.



 



   8.   A safety strap shall be used at all times for any tool or
appliance with hot exhaust.  Hot exhaust shall not come in contact with any
brush, grass, flash fuels, or other flammable material.



 



 



SEC. 57.322.1.1.10.1.  PENALTY.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 185,789, Eff. 10/17/18.)



 



   A first violation of this section shall be an infraction punishable by
a fine not to exceed $250.  A second and all subsequent violations of this
section shall be subject to the provisions of Section 11.00 of the Los
Angeles Municipal Code, including prosecution as an infraction or prosecution
as a misdemeanor punishable by a fine not to exceed $1,000, by imprisonment
in the County Jail for a period not to exceed six months, or by both such
fine and imprisonment.  In addition to the aforementioned penalties, any
violator convicted under this section, which resulted in a fire, may be
liable for any civil cost recovery associated with the fire, as permitted by
law.



 



 



SEC. 57.322.2.  INSPECTION AND FEES.



 



   A fee shall be charged for the inspection of properties in the City of
Los Angeles to determine whether a violation of this section exists.  The
fee shall be determined and established in the same manner as provided for in
Section 57.114.  Provided, however, that prior to any inspection occurring,
the owner of record of each property proposed to be inspected shall receive a
notice advising the owner of the intended inspection, the cost thereof, that
penalties will be imposed for nonpayment within the time period specified,
and that the owner will not be billed if the owner elects to follow the
procedure, or any of the procedures, described in the notice within the
period of time specified in the notice.  Any procedure which the property
owner may elect to follow must be determined by the Fire Department to be one
which will provide adequate assurance to the Department that the property
does not contain hazardous vegetation as defined in Section 57.322, a copy of
which definition shall also be set forth in the notice, and which would not
be unduly burdensome upon the property owner to accomplish.  In the event an
inspection occurs and the property owner is billed the cost of inspection, a
penalty shall be imposed if the fee is not paid within the period of time
specified in the billing document.  Such penalty shall be 200% of the fee
imposed, or the cost of rebilling, whichever is greater.



 



 



SEC. 57.322.2.1.  PUBLIC NUISANCE.



 



   The Council finds that uncontrolled or high weeds, brush, plant
material or other items prohibited under Sections 57.322.1 through
57.322.1.1.9 of this section increase the danger of fire and thus constitute
a public nuisance.  If such condition exists, the Los Angeles Fire
Department shall give notice to the owner of record to abate the nuisance
within 15 days.  The notice shall be either posted on the parcel or mailed
to the owner, or both.



 



 



SEC. 57.322.2.1.1.  NOTICE TO OWNER.



 



   The notice shall state that the owner is required to abate the nuisance
and that, if the nuisance is not abated by the date specified therein, the
City or its contractor may enter upon the parcel of land and remove or
otherwise eliminate or abate the nuisance; that upon completion of such work
and cost thereof, including administrative costs, shall become a special
assessment against that parcel; and that upon City Council confirmation of
the assessment and recordation of that order, a lien shall attach to the
parcel to be collected on the next regular property tax bill levied against
the parcel.



 



 



SEC. 57.322.2.1.2.  CITY ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.



 



   In the event the nuisance is not removed or otherwise eliminated or
abated by the date specified in the notice, the City or its contractor may
enter upon the parcel and remove or eliminate the nuisance.  The City
department which causes the nuisance to be abated shall bill the owner of
record for the cost of removal, or other elimination or abatement thereof,
including administrative costs.  Such administrative costs shall be
determined and established in the same manner as provided for in Section
57.114 of this Code.  An itemized written report showing the date and cost
of abatement work done by the City or its contractor, together with a
proposed assessment with respect to the parcel involved, shall be submitted
by said department to the Board of Fire Commissioners, hereinafter sometimes
referred to as the “Board,” for its consideration.



 



 



SEC. 57.322.2.1.3.  REPORT OF NUISANCE ABATEMENT.



 



   The Board shall thereupon cause a written notice to be mailed to each
owner of record.  The notice shall identify the property in question and
shall state that:



 



   1.   A nuisance, as identified in the notice, has been abated on the
property;



 



   2.   A bill setting forth the cost of abatement has been mailed to
the owner and a copy of the report setting forth the cost of abatement will
be available for inspection at a specified location;



 



   3.   The City proposes to assess the owner for the cost of abatement;



 



   4.   There will be a public hearing with respect to the proposed
assessment and the amount thereof at the time, date and location designated
in the notice.



 



 



SEC. 57.322.2.1.4.  PUBLIC HEARING REQUEST.



 



   The owner may appear before a hearing examiner at the time, date and
location specified in the notice or may request to appear at an alternate
later time and/or date, and may appear at that alternate time and/or date if
so designated by the hearing examiner.  Upon any such appearance, the owner
will be given the opportunity to present evidence to show cause why the
property should not be assessed for the cost of abatement or not be assessed
in the amount specified in the bill.



 



 



SEC. 57.322.2.1.4.1.  WRITTEN OBJECTIONS.



 



   Any written objections to the proposed assessment, and/or requests for
an alternate hearing date, submitted to the hearing examiner must identify
therein the parcel of property proposed to be assessed.  The notice, or copy
thereof, may, but need not, be used for that purpose and in the event the
hearing examiner agrees to an alternate time or date for the owner’s
appearance, the Department will notify the owner as to that alternate time
and/or date.  Written objections to the proposed assessment may be submitted
to the hearing examiner, but must be submitted prior to the commencement of
the scheduled hearing.



 



 



SEC. 57.322.2.1.4.2.  HEARING PROCEDURES.



 



   On the date specified in the notice or on any date thereafter to which
continued, the Board of Fire Commissioners, or its designee, shall act as the
City’s hearing examiner and shall conduct a hearing, consider the report
setting forth the cost of abatement, receive testimony from Department
personnel and others with respect to the existence of a nuisance and cost of
abatement, and consider the testimony and other evidence of property owners
who appear at the hearing.



 



 



SEC. 57.322.2.1.4.3.  HEARING REPORT PREPARATION.



 



   After the hearing has been closed, the hearing examiner shall prepare a
report and proposed decision to be presented to the City Council based upon
all of the evidence presented at the hearing.  The report shall identify and
include the name and mailing address of the owner of each parcel from which a
nuisance was abated and for which a notice of hearing and proposed assessment
had been given.  The hearing examiner shall include its findings,
conclusions, recommendations and proposed decision in its report to the
Council with respect to each parcel, and whether the proposed assessment
should be:



 



   1.   Confirmed in the amount set forth in the notice,



 



   2.   Disallowed, or



 



   3.   Confirmed in an amount less than that set forth in the
notice.  In each event, the hearing examiner shall include the reasons for
its recommendations.  The report shall fairly and accurately represent the
hearing proceedings, including the objections and other testimony of each
party who appeared at the hearing and the hearing examiner’s evaluation
thereof.  Upon adoption of the report by the Board, as hearing examiner, or
concurrence in the report by the Board if the duly appointed hearing examiner
was other than the Board, the report and proposed decision with respect to
contested proposed assessments, as well as the Board’s recommendations and
report with respect to all other proposed assessments, shall be transmitted
to the City Clerk’s office for placement upon the Council calendar not less
than 15 days after its receipt.  The proposed decision in each such event
shall be in such form that it may be amended as the decision of the City
Council.  If the hearing was conducted by other than the Board, and after a
review of the report the Board does not concur with the recommendations
therein, the Board may refer the matter back to the hearing examiner for
further review, and a hearing if necessary, or the Board may conduct a
hearing de novo as the hearing examiner, after due notice, and prepare its
own decision and recommendations for Council consideration.



 



 



SEC. 57.322.2.1.4.3.1.  CONTESTED ASSESSMENT REVIEW BY CITY COUNCIL.



 



   Where there has been a contested proposed assessment, the Board, on
behalf of and in the name of the City Council, shall concurrently cause a
copy of the hearing examiner’s proposed decision in the matter to be
transmitted to each property owner that appeared at the hearing, along with a
Fire Department telephone number and location where a copy of the hearing
examiner’s complete report is available for inspection.  The Board shall
include in its transmittal to property owners a notice of the alternate
actions available to the City Council as set forth herein below and a notice
that they may submit in writing to the City Clerk any information of newly
discovered or additional evidence within 15 days from the transmittal date
shown on the copy of the proposed decision.  The City Council shall review
the report and proposed uncontested assessments transmitted by the Board and
shall also review the report, evidence, and proposed decision received from
the hearing examiner and shall by motion or resolution:



 



   1.   Adopt the findings and proposed decision and confirm the
assessment; or



 



   2.   Adopt findings and reduce the assessment set forth in the
proposed decision and confirm the assessment as modified; or



 



   3.   Determine to hear and decide the case upon the record, and any
newly discovered or additional evidence offered by the property owner, afford
the property owner the opportunity to present, at a date certain, either oral
or written argument before the Council, adopt findings, and based upon
evidence presented, determine and confirm the amount of any assessment in the
matter; or



 



   4.   Refer the matter back to the hearing examiner if the Council is
satisfied that information of any material newly discovered or additional
evidence has been received, or that additional evidence or review is needed
before a final decision is made.  If the matter is so referred, the City
Clerk shall return the complete file on that parcel and proposed assessment
to the hearing examiner. Upon receipt thereof, the hearing examiner shall
reset the matter for hearing any additional evidence, give due notice
thereof, and conduct the hearing for that purpose, and shall thereafter
submit another report and proposed decision to the City Council for its
review and decision in the same manner as heretofore described.



 



   Whenever a report and proposed assessment decision provided for by this
Code section has been calendared for Council consideration, the City Clerk
shall retain a copy of the report and have it available for public inspection
prior to and during the course of Council deliberation in the assessment
proceedings.



 



 



SEC. 57.322.2.1.4.3.2.  FINAL DECISION.



 



   The action of the City Council adopting a proposed decision or a
modified proposed decision and an order confirming an assessment shall be
final.



 



   The cost of removal, or other elimination or abatement of a nuisance
from in front of or on a parcel of land shall constitute a special assessment
against that parcel.  After an assessment is made and confirmed by the City
Council pursuant to Section 57.322.3, a lien shall attach to the parcel upon
recordation in the Office of the County Recorder of a copy of the order
confirming the assessment.  The connection of such assessment and
enforcement of the lien shall be in the manner provided in Sections 39578
through 39588 of the Government Code, incorporated herein by reference as set
forth on the effective date of this section or as said provisions may be
amended or otherwise appear in the law.



 



   As an alternative method for the collection of the cost of abatement,
the City may maintain an action of law thereof against the owner of the
premises upon which the nuisance was maintained in any court of competent
jurisdiction.  Such cost shall be deemed a personal obligation of such owner.



 



   Nothing contained in this subsection shall be deemed to preclude the
Chief from requiring more than the minimum distances for firebreaks when the
Chief determines that hazardous conditions exist that necessitate greater
fire protection measures.



 



   Under un-codified Ordinance No. 172,652, eff. 7/25/99, a moratorium has
been imposed until January 1, 2000, on the collection of any penalty imposed
by the City for late payment of the fee charged pursuant to Section 57.322.2
of this Code for inspection of properties to determine the existence of a
violation of Section 57.322 of this Code.



 



 



SEC. 57.322.3.  ADDITIONAL AUTHORITY TO RECOVER COSTS.



 



   A fire on a parcel of land that is not in compliance with Section
57.322 is a public nuisance.  If the City incurs costs either in fighting a
fire on a parcel of land that was not in compliance with Section 57.322 at
the time of the fire, or in fighting a fire that spread from that parcel,
then the City shall recover the costs of abatement.



 



   The costs of abatement shall include the costs of fighting the fire,
providing rescue or emergency medical services and providing support
services, including services from the Los Angeles Police Department and the
Department of Water and Power.  These abatement costs shall also include any
costs incurred by the City in using City and non-City personnel.



 



   All costs incurred pursuant to this section shall be a personal
obligation against the person or persons, including mortgagees, who have an
obligation to comply with Section 57.322, recoverable by the City in an
action before any court of competent jurisdiction.  These costs shall
include an amount equal to 40% of the cost to perform the actual work, but
not less than the sum of $100.00, to cover the City’s costs for
administering any contract and supervising the work required.  In addition
to this personal obligation and all other remedies provided by law, the City
may collect any judgment, fee, cost, or charge, including any permit fees,
fines, late charges, or interest, incurred in relation to the provisions of
this section as provided in Los Angeles Administrative Code Sections 7.35.1
through 7.35.8.



 



   EXCEPTION:  If costs are incurred by the City for or arising out of
fighting a fire resulting from an event or course of events that prompted a
declaration of a state of emergency, local emergency, war emergency or major
disaster by the Mayor, the Governor, or the President of the United States,
then no lien shall be recorded against a parcel of land pursuant to this
section.



 



 



SEC. 57.323.  MATCHES.



 



 



SEC. 57.323.1.  GENERAL.



 



   This section shall regulate the storage, handling, manufacturing, and
packaging of matches.  Matches shall conform to all other applicable
requirements of this article, as well as the following provisions.



 



 



SEC. 57.323.2.  PACKAGING AND LABELING.



 



   Matches shall be labeled and packaged in conformance with the
provisions of Department of Transportation Hazardous Materials Regulations.



 



 



SEC. 57.323.3.  GENERAL STORAGE REQUIREMENTS.



 



   Matches in excess of 50 pounds including the containers shall not be
stored within 10 feet of any open elevator shaft, elevator shaft opening,
open stairway, or other vertical opening.  Matches in excess of 50 pounds
including the containers, shall not be stored within 10 feet of any boiler,
furnace, stove, open flame, or similar source of ignition.



 



 



SEC. 57.323.3.1.  WHOLESALE STORAGE.



 



   At wholesale establishments and other locations where containers of
matches are stored in piles exceeding 100 cubic feet, such containers shall
be arranged so as not to exceed 10 feet in height nor 1,500 cubic feet in
volume with aisles at least 8 feet wide.



 



 



SEC. 57.323.3.2.  MIXED STORAGE.



 



   When matches are stored in the same room with other materials or
commodities, they shall be separated by a clear space of not less than 8 feet.



 



 



SEC. 57.323.4.  PROHIBITED TYPES.



 



   No person shall manufacture, distribute, sell, offer for sale, or
possess any exploding match, “trick” match, blazer or wind type match, or
any type of match which will ignite spontaneously when subjected for eight
consecutive hours to a temperature of 200°F in a standard laboratory test.



 



 



SEC. 57.323.5.  FIRE PROTECTION.



 



   In buildings or portions of buildings where matches are manufactured,
packaged, or stored, portable fire extinguishers shall be provided in
accordance with Table 906.3(1).



 



 



SEC. 57.324.  GENERAL DUTIES OF PERSONS.



 



 



SEC. 57.324.1.  FIRE SPREAD.



 



   No person shall permit any fire to spread so as to endanger the person
or property of another, or use or operate a welding torch, tar pot, internal
combustion engine, or any other device which may cause a fire unless proper
removal of flammable material surrounding the operation is accomplished or
such other reasonable precautions are taken which are necessary to insure
against the starting and spreading of fires.



 



 



SEC. 57.324.2.  DUTIES WHEN A FIRE OCCURS.



 



   Whenever a fire occurs in any building, or on any premises, vessel or
aircraft, or in any vehicle, apparatus, process, or equipment, it shall be
the duty of the owner, manager, operator, or person in control, upon
notification or discovery of such fire and/or smoke, to immediately notify
the Department and furnish all required information relative to the
incident.  This requirement shall not be construed to forbid the owner,
manager, operator, or person in control of the building, premises, vessel,
aircraft, vehicle, apparatus, process, or equipment from using all diligence
necessary to extinguish such fire prior to the arrival of the Department.



 



 



SEC. 57.324.3.  NOTIFICATIONS.



 



   Any person upon discovering evidence of spontaneous heating or other
abnormal heating of any merchandise, commodity, cargo, shipment, or other
material of any kind in any building, vessel, aircraft, vehicle, appliance,
apparatus, tank, or open stack or pile, or any person upon discovering or
being apprised of an uncontrolled hazardous gas leak or hazardous material or
substance spill shall immediately notify the Department.



 



 



SEC. 57.324.4.  HAZARDOUS RELEASE.



 



   No person owning, operating, or having charge or control of any device,
appliance, apparatus, equipment, tank, vehicle, vessel, aircraft, building,
structure, business, premises or other place or thing shall:



 



   1.   Release or transfer any flammable liquid, combustible liquid,
liquefied flammable gas, or any other hazardous material or substance in such
a manner as to give rise to a fire, explosion, panic, or other hazardous
condition.



 



   2.   Use any tank, tank vehicle, cargo tank, tank trailer, tank car,
and any device, appliance, apparatus, or equipment used in conjunction
therewith, when leaking or in such state of disrepair as to cause a leak.



 



 



SEC. 57.324.5.  TRANSFER UNDER PERMIT.



 



   When the transfer of any flammable liquid, combustible liquid,
liquefied flammable gas, or any other hazardous material or substance is
deemed necessary by the Department to safeguard life and property from fire,
explosion, panic, or other hazardous condition, the transfer shall be
performed under Special Permit obtained from the Department pursuant to
Section 57.105.8 of this article.



 



 



SEC. 57.324.6.  FIRE ALARM NOTIFICATION.



 



   Whenever alarm signals initiated by manual pull stations, smoke or heat
detectors, automatic fire extinguishing systems, or other fire protection
systems are transmitted to any location on or off the premises, they shall be
treated as a fire alarm and the owner, operator, or person in charge or
control of the building or premises shall immediately relay the alarm signal
to the Fire Department.



 



 



SEC. 57.325.  GENERAL PROVISIONS FOR CORRECTION OF HAZARDS.



 



 



SEC. 57.325.1.  CORRECTION OF HAZARDOUS CONDITIONS.



 



   No person owning or having charge or control of any device, appliance,
apparatus, equipment, tank, vehicle, vessel, building, structure, business,
or premises which is in such condition as to cause a fire, explosion or life
hazard, shall after having been notified in writing by the Chief that he or
she must forthwith eliminate or remedy such condition or make changes,
alterations, or repairs as may be necessary to render the same safe and to
eliminate such dangerous condition of fire, explosion or life hazard,
maintain or use any such device, appliance, apparatus, equipment, tank,
vehicle, vessel, building, structure, business or premises until he has
complied with the terms of such notice.



 



 



SEC. 57.325.2.  NOTICE.



 



   Notice that a building, structure, or premises is closed to entry by
reason of any fire, explosion or fire hazard may be posted thereon by the
Chief.  When so posted, and so long as the hazardous condition exists, no
person shall enter, occupy, or use such building, structure, or premises
except under Special Permit from the Chief pursuant to Section 57.105.8 of
this article.



 



 



SEC. 57.401.  GENERAL.



 



   Chapter 4 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted by
reference with the following exceptions, modifications, and additions; and
where the CFC did not adopt the IFC, the Department hereby adopts Sections
403.12. through 403.12.3.3,  404.2.3 through 404.2.3.3, and 406.4 by
reference with the following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.402.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   Section 402 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.402.1.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   Alternate Floor Warden



 



   Assistant Fire Safety Director



 



   Building Inventory Form



 



   Emergency Assistance Center



 



   Essential Building Personnel



 



   Fire Safety Director



 



   Fire Safety Director Certificate



 



   Floor Warden



 



   Floor Warden Certificate



 



   Normal Working Hours



 



   Private First Responder



 



   Total Building Evacuation



 



 



SEC. 57.403.  EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS REQUIREMENTS.



 



   Section 403 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.  The Department hereby
adopts Sections 403.12. through 403.12.3.3 of the 2015 IFC .



 



 



SEC. 57.403.1.  RESERVED.



 



 



SEC. 57.403.2.  ANNOUNCEMENTS OF EXITS AND POSTING OF EXIT PLANS IN GROUP A
OCCUPANCIES.



 



   Group A occupancies shall comply with the requirements of Section
57.403.2.2 through 57.403.2.6 and Sections 57.401 through 57.403.



 



 



SEC. 57.403.2.2.  ANNOUNCEMENTS.



 



   An announcement shall be made in the main area of the event at the
beginning of each public assemblage.  It shall include the locations and
number of the exits.  For those assemblages extending over two hours in
length and not having a definite ending time, the announcement shall be made
at the beginning and at least every two hours thereafter.



 



 



SEC. 57.403.2.5.  EXIT LOCATIONS.



 



   The exit locations must be visible to the occupants as the announcement
is being made.  This may be accomplished by highlighting the exits using
spotlights, flashlights, security officers or event personnel to point out
the exits, lowering the houselights to highlight the exit signs, or a large
visual screen showing all exits or by using other appropriate measures.



 



 



SEC. 57.403.2.6.  POSTING OF AN EMERGENCY EXIT PLAN.



 



   These occupancies will be required to post an emergency exit floor plan
on a diagram demonstrating a person’s present location (i.e., “You Are
Here”), exit locations and locations of exit corridors.  These plans must
be posted in the restrooms, main lobby areas adjacent to food and gift
venues, entrances and other areas where the public congregates.



 



 



SEC. 57.403.3.  RESERVED.



 



 



SEC. 57.403.4.  RESERVED.



 



 



SEC. 57.403.5.  RESERVED.



 



 



SEC. 57.403.6.  RESERVED.



 



 



SEC. 57.403.7.  RESERVED.



 



 



SEC. 57.403.8.  RESERVED.



 



 



SEC. 57.403.9.  RESERVED.



 



 



SEC. 57.403.10.  RESERVED.



 



 



SEC. 57.403.11.  RESERVED.



 



 



SEC. 57.404.  FIRE SAFETY AND EVACUATION PLANS.



 



   Section 404 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications and additions.  The Department hereby
adopts Sections 404.2.3 through 404.2.3.3 of the 2015 IFC with the following
exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.404.1.  RESERVED.



 



 



SEC. 57.404.2.  RESERVED.



 



 



SEC. 57.404.2.1.  RESERVED.



 



 



SEC. 57.404.2.2.  RESERVED.



 



 



SEC. 57.404.2.3.2.  TRAINING FREQUENCY.



 



   The training frequency shall be included in the lockdown plan.  The
lockdown drills shall not substitute for any of the required fire and
evacuation drills.



 



 



SEC. 57.404.2.3.2.1.  EMERGENCY LOCKDOWN TRAINING.



 



   Where a facility has a lockdown plan, employees shall be trained on
their assigned duties and procedures in the event of an emergency lockdown.



 



 



SEC. 57.404.3.  RESERVED.



 



 



SEC. 57.404.4.  RESERVED.



 



 



SEC. 57.405.  EMERGENCY EVACUATION DRILLS.



 



   Not adopted.



 



 



SEC. 57.406.  EMPLOYEE TRAINING AND RESPONSE TRAINING.



 



   The Department hereby adopts Section 406.4 of the IFC.



 



 



SEC. 57.406.1.  RESERVED.



 



 



SEC. 57.406.2.  RESERVED.



 



 



SEC. 57.406.3.  RESERVED.



 



 



SEC. 57.407.  HAZARD COMMUNICATION.



 



   Section 407 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.408.  EMERGENCY PLANNING AND EVACUATION REQUIREMENTS FOR HIGH-RISE
BUILDINGS.



 



 



SEC. 57.408.1.  REQUIREMENTS FOR HIGH-RISE BUILDINGS.



 



   Emergency planning and evacuation requirements for high-rise buildings
shall be in compliance with Sections 57.408.2 through 57.408.11.



 



 



SEC. 57.408.2.  CREATION AND FILING OF EMERGENCY PLAN.



 



   Every owner, manager, operator, administrator, and tenant of a new or
existing high-rise building shall, in cooperation with the Fire Department,
establish, implement, maintain and update an Emergency Plan for the building
that complies with, but is not necessarily limited to, the following.



 



 



SEC. 57.408.2.1.  SUBMISSION OF PLANS.



 



   The owner shall electronically submit the Emergency Plan annually to
the Fire Department and maintain a current hard copy on the premises.  Prior
to each annual submittal, the owner shall also review the Emergency Plan and
as a result of that review shall update the Emergency Plan as necessary to
ensure that it is accurate and complete.  All Emergency Plan transactions
shall be electronically submitted by means of a Fire Department-approved
method.  The updated Emergency Plan shall be submitted to the Fire
Department within ten days of its completion.  If the owner determines after
an annual review, that the Emergency Plan does not require updating, the
owner shall so inform the Fire Department in writing as soon as that
determination is made.  This requirement does not preclude an owner from
reviewing and updating the Emergency Plan more frequently than annually.



 



   Any changes to the lists of private first responders, essential
building personnel, or emergency contact telephone numbers shall be submitted
to the Fire Department within ten days of the date of the change.



 



 



SEC. 57.408.2.3.  EMERGENCY PLAN AVAILABILITY.



 



   The Emergency Plan shall be made available upon request to personnel of
the Fire Department.  Upon any change of ownership or management of a
high-rise building, the previous owner shall provide all copies of the
Emergency Plan required by this chapter to the new owners within ten days of
the change of ownership. The new owner shall, after receiving the Emergency
Plan submit any required updates within ten days.



 



 



SEC. 57.408.2.4.  HOTEL GUEST EXEMPTION.



 



   Hotel guests are exempt from the requirements set forth in this
section.  Building staff and employees shall participate in the requirements
as set forth in this section.



 



 



SEC. 57.408.3.  FIRE DEPARTMENT APPROVAL REQUIRED.



 



   All Emergency Plans, procedures and evacuation signs shall be completed
and submitted to the Fire Department for inspection and approval prior to
their implementation.  All plans, signs, procedures and training programs
formulated by, or purchased from, a “High-Rise Life/Safety Service” shall
also be submitted for approval. All persons engaging in the business of
“High-Rise Life/Safety Service” shall be required to obtain a Certificate
of Fitness in accordance with Section 57.117 of this article.  The Fire
Department may deny approval of any “High-Rise Life/Safety Service” which
fails to meet minimum standards set by the Fire Code Official.



 



 



SEC. 57.408.4.  BUILDING INVENTORY FORM.



 



   A building inventory on a form provided by the Fire Department shall be
completed and submitted as part of the Emergency Plan and be subject to
approval by the Fire Department.



 



 



SEC. 57.408.5.  REQUIRED DESIGNATED PERSONNEL.



 



   Each Emergency Plan shall include the personnel as designated in
Sections 57.408.5.1 through 57.408.5.4.



 



 



SEC. 57.408.5.1.  FIRE SAFETY DIRECTOR.



 



   The Fire Safety Director and Assistant Fire Safety Director shall be
employees of the building owner or manager or reside on the premises or be
otherwise approved by the Fire Department.



 



 



SEC. 57.408.5.1.  RESPONSIBILITY FOR FIRE SAFETY DIRECTOR.



 



   The responsibility of the Fire Safety Director shall be established in
Sections 57.408.5.1.1 through 57.408.5.1.4.



 



 



SEC. 57.408.5.1.1.  FIRE SAFETY DIRECTOR RESPONSIBILITY FOR EMERGENCY PLAN.



 



   The Fire Safety Director shall be responsible for the establishment,
implementation and maintenance of the Emergency Plan, the annual emergency
evacuation drills, training and all documentation required by the Emergency
Plan.



 



 



SEC. 57.408.5.1.2.  FIRE SAFETY DIRECTOR RESPONSIBILITY FOR SECURITY
PERSONNEL.



 



   The Fire Safety Director shall also verify that all security personnel
have a valid State certification.  The Fire Safety Director and the
Assistant Fire Safety Director shall obtain and maintain a valid Fire Safety
Director Certificate approved by the Fire Department, and shall present their
certificate for inspection upon request to Fire Department personnel.



 



 



SEC. 57.408.5.1.3.  FIRE SAFETY DIRECTOR RESPONSIBILITY FOR RENEWAL OF THEIR
CERTIFICATE.



 



   The Fire Safety Director shall be responsible for renewing their
certificate at least once a year in order to maintain a valid certificate. 
The Assistant Fire Safety Director shall be prepared to assume the Fire
Safety Director’s duties when necessary.



 



 



SEC. 57.408.5.1.4.  RESPONSIBILITY FOR PAYMENT OF THE FEES.



 



   The building owner shall be responsible for payment of the fees
associated with the issuance of the Fire Safety Director Certificate by the
Fire Department as described in Section 57.408.10.1.1.



 



 



SEC. 57.408.5.2.  FLOOR WARDENS.



 



   A minimum of one Floor Warden per floor shall be designated to perform
the duties required by this section.  Additional Floor Wardens shall be
required if the occupant load of a floor exceeds 500 people.  The Floor
Warden shall obtain and maintain a valid Floor Warden Certificate, approved
by the Fire Department, and shall present their certificate for inspection
upon request by Fire Department personnel. Alternate Floor Wardens shall also
obtain a certificate as Floor Warden and be designated for each floor, and be
prepared to assume the Floor Warden duties when necessary.  In a residential
building, the Floor Warden shall be a resident on that floor or an employee
of that building owner or manager.  In a non-residential building, the Floor
Wardens shall be employees on that floor.  The Floor Wardens shall receive
training at least once each year in order to maintain a valid certificate. 
Exemptions to this regulation may be granted only upon a written request
approved by the Fire Code Official.  The building owner shall be responsible
for payment of the annual fee associated with the issuance of the required
number of Floor Warden Certificates by the Fire Department.



 



 



SEC. 57.408.5.3.  PRIVATE FIRST RESPONDERS.



 



   The operational portion of the Emergency Plan shall identify and
incorporate all Private First Responders for the building.



 



 



SEC. 57.408.5.4.  ESSENTIAL BUILDING PERSONNEL.



 



   The operational portion of the Emergency Plan shall also identify and
incorporate all essential building personnel who are employees of the owner
or manager in the building.



 



 



SEC. 57.408.6.  REQUIRED DESIGNATED PERSONNEL – ON-SITE PRESENCE.



 



   With regard to non-residential high-rise buildings, the Fire Safety
Director or Assistant Fire Safety Director shall be present on-site during
normal business hours.



 



 



SEC. 57.408.7.  EMERGENCY RESPONSE DUTIES OF DESIGNATED PERSONNEL.



 



   Emergency response duties of designated personnel shall comply with
Section 57.408.7.1.



 



 



SEC. 57.408.7.1.  MINIMUM DUTIES.



 



   The designated personnel required by Section 57.408.5 shall have, at a
minimum, the duties listed in Sections 57.408.7.1.1 through 57.408.7.1.4.



 



 



SEC. 57.408.7.1.1.  THE FIRE SAFETY DIRECTOR OR ASSISTANT FIRE SAFETY
DIRECTOR.



 



   The Fire Safety Director or Assistant Fire Safety Director shall:



 



   1.   During an emergency, call 911 or designate someone to place the
call; report to the building’s Emergency Assistance Center; direct,
evacuation operations in the building including disabled personnel in the
designated refuge or rescue locations who have identified the need for
assistance; and report the current conditions to the Fire Department.



 



   2.   Conduct monthly building safety inspections to identify hazards
and obstructions in the egress pathways.



 



   3.   Develop procedures for implementation of the Emergency Plan and
direct emergency evacuations and drills.



 



   4.   Assign wardens for each floor, selected from the occupants on
that floor.



 



   5.   Incorporate Private First Responders for each occupied floor if
identified by the Emergency Plan.



 



 



SEC. 57.408.7.1.2.  FLOOR WARDENS.



 



   Floor Wardens shall:



 



   1.   Know the locations of all exits leading from occupied areas of
the building and carry out the requirements in the Emergency Plan.



 



   2.   Direct emergency evacuations and drills for their respective
assigned floors in accordance with the Emergency Plan.



 



 



SEC. 57.408.7.1.3.  PRIVATE FIRST RESPONDERS.



 



   Private First Responders shall:



 



   1.   Know the location of all exits leading from occupied areas and
carry out the requirements in the Emergency Plan.



 



   2.   Assist the Floor Wardens in the emergency evacuations and
drills in accordance to the Emergency Plan.



 



 



SEC. 57.408.7.1.4.  ESSENTIAL BUILDING PERSONNEL.



 



   Essential building personnel shall:



 



   1.   Assist the Fire Safety Director during emergency evacuation
operations in accordance with the Emergency Plan.



 



   2.   Assist the Fire Department and other emergency responders
during emergency operations as described in the Emergency Plan.



 



 



SEC. 57.408.8.  EMERGENCY PLAN - MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.



 



   The provisions of Sections 57.408.8.1 through 57.408.8.8 reflect
minimum requirements and are not intended to restrict owners from
implementing any additional measures.



 



 



SEC. 57.408.8.1.  PROCEDURES.



 



   Each Emergency Plan shall contain a description of the procedures all
occupants should follow in an emergency evacuation or drill during the
regular business hours and non-business hours of the building.  Each
Emergency Plan shall also have a procedure for total building evacuations.



 



 



SEC. 57.408.8.2.  EVACUATION ROLES AND DUTIES.



 



   Each Emergency Plan shall specify in detail the evacuation roles and
duties of the designated personnel, including the names of the Fire Safety
Director and Assistant Fire Safety Director, and their pager, in-house, and
cellular telephone numbers.



 



 



SEC. 57.408.8.3.  SIGNS.



 



   Each Emergency Plan shall require that emergency evacuation signs be
posted in elevator lobbies and adjacent to the doorway leading to the exit
stairs.  The signs shall include, but not be limited to, the high-rise
building’s core floor plan describing all corridors, stairways, elevator
lobbies, and interior evacuation routes for each floor.



 



 



SEC. 57.408.8.4.  EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE CENTER.



 



   The Fire Safety Director, with the approval of the Fire Department,
shall establish as part of every Emergency Plan an Emergency Assistance
Center where the Fire Safety Director or Assistant Fire Safety Director and
other selected personnel report during an emergency incident.  The Fire
Safety Director shall also assign a responsible person to meet and direct the
Fire Department to the location of the emergency incident.  The Emergency
Assistance Center may include a Fire Control Room, lobby or safe refuge area
outside of the building.



 



 



SEC. 57.408.8.5.  SPECIAL NEEDS REQUIREMENTS.



 



   Special needs requirements shall be incorporated in the Emergency Plan
and shall include the current list of the names and usual floor locations of
each occupant who has voluntarily, in writing, self-identified their need for
assistance and the type of aid required to exit the building during an
emergency.  One or more places of refuge or rescue shall be designated in
the Emergency Plan including a method to safely remove these occupants from
the building.  The Emergency Plan shall include the appropriate number of
personnel designated to assist each of these occupants during an emergency
evacuation or fire drill.



 



 



SEC. 57.408.8.6.  OCCUPANT INSTRUCTION AND TRAINING.



 



   All high-rise building occupants shall be instructed annually on the
procedures to be followed in the event of fire, earthquake, or other
emergency and participate in the mandatory fire drill.  Documentation of the
occupant instructions shall be maintained by the Fire Safety Director and be
made available for inspection by Fire Department personnel.  These
instructions shall also be made available to all new occupants within 14 days
of their assuming occupancy in the building.



 



 



SEC. 57.408.8.7.  EMERGENCY EVACUATION PLANS, SIGNS, AND PROCEDURES.



 



   The proposed emergency exit plans, procedures, and evacuation signs
shall be posted after approval by the Fire Department.  Evacuation signs
shall be located in every elevator lobby above and below the ground floor,
adjacent to the doorway leading to the exit stairs, and in other conspicuous
floor locations as required by the Department.  Each dwelling unit, guest
room, and office area shall be provided with the fire safety and evacuation
information, as required in Section 57.4704.4.  All plans, procedures, and
signs shall be properly maintained.



 



 



SEC. 57.408.8.8.  FILING OF THE EMERGENCY PLAN.



 



   Each Emergency Plan, after approval by the Fire Department, shall be
filed:



 



   1.   In the office of the high-rise building;



 



   2.   At the security desk; and



 



   3.   In the vicinity of the Fire Department annunciator/control
panel or, as to residential buildings, in an identifiable location approved
by the Fire Code Official.  The Emergency Plan shall be made readily
available to the building staff and to the designated personnel required by
Section 57.408.5 at all times.



 



 



SEC. 57.408.9.  FIRE DRILLS.



 



   Fire drills shall comply with Sections 57.408.9.1 through 57.408.9.6.



 



 



SEC. 57.408.9.1.  COMMERCIAL HIGH-RISE BUILDINGS LESS THAN 35 STORIES IN
HEIGHT.



 



   Commercial high-rise buildings, less than 35 stories in height, are
required to conduct mandatory fire drills at least annually under the
direction of the Fire Safety Director.



 



 



SEC. 57.408.9.1.1.  MANDATORY DRILL.



 



   A mandatory minimum of one fire drill shall be conducted annually on
individual floors and when practical, shall include at least five floors at a
time.



 



 



SEC. 57.408.9.1.2.  DURING THE ANNUAL FIRE DRILL.



 



   During the annual fire drill the occupants shall proceed to the safest
stairwell and relocate to a predetermined floor or outside safe refuge area.



 



 



SEC. 57.408.9.2.  COMMERCIAL HIGH-RISE BUILDINGS, 35 OR MORE STORIES IN
HEIGHT.



 



   Commercial high-rise buildings, 35 or more stories in height, are
required to conduct a mandatory fire drill at least annually under the
direction of the Fire Safety Director.



 



 



SEC. 57.408.9.2.1.  MANDATORY DRILL.



 



   A mandatory minimum of one fire drill shall be conducted annually on
individual floors and, when practical, shall include at least five floors at
a time.



 



 



SEC. 57.408.9.2.2.  DURING THE ANNUAL FIRE DRILL.



 



   During the annual fire drill the occupants shall proceed to the safest
stairwell and relocate to a predetermined floor or outside safe refuge area.



 



 



SEC. 57.408.9.2.3.  TOTAL BUILDING EVACUATION.



 



   Every three years there shall be a total building evacuation fire
drill, wherein every occupant of the building proceeds to the safest
stairwell and evacuates directly to a predetermined outside safe refuge area.



 



 



SEC. 57.408.9.3.  RESIDENTIAL HIGH-RISE BUILDINGS.



 



   Residential high-rise buildings are required to conduct mandatory fire
drills at least annually under the direction of the Fire Safety Director.



 



 



SEC. 57.408.9.3.1.  MANDATORY DRILL.



 



   A mandatory minimum of one fire drill shall be conducted annually on
individual floors and, when practical, shall include at least five floors at
a time.



 



 



SEC. 57.408.9.3.2.  DURING THE ANNUAL FIRE DRILL.



 



   During the annual fire drill the occupants shall proceed to the safest
stairwell and relocate to a predetermined floor or outside safe refuge area.



 



 



SEC. 57.408.9.4.  BUILDINGS THAT HAVE STAIR SHAFT DOORS LOCKED.



 



   Buildings that have stair shaft doors locked for security reasons shall
include a method in the Emergency Plan that allows for safe horizontal egress
from the stair shaft during a fire drill or emergency evacuation.



 



 



SEC. 57.408.9.5.  COORDINATION OF TOTAL BUILDING EVACUATION.



 



   The Fire Safety Director of the building or their designee shall
coordinate the date of the total building evacuation drill for buildings 35
or more stories in height with the Fire Department, to be conducted during
normal working hours.  A Fire Safety Officer shall be present to witness the
total building evacuation drill.



 



 



SEC. 57.408.9.6.  DOCUMENTATION OF ALL FIRE DRILLS.



 



   The Fire Safety Director shall maintain documentation of all fire
drills on Fire Department-approved forms and make it available for inspection
by the Department. Fire drills may be scheduled in advance, with a notice
posted to all tenants.  All building occupants shall participate in the fire
drills and emergency evacuations.



 



 



SEC. 57.408.10.  FEES.



 



   Fees shall be charged and collected in compliance with Sections
57.408.10.1 through 57.408.10.4.



 



 



SEC. 57.408.10.1.1.  RESPONSIBILITY FOR FEES.



 



   The building owner shall be responsible for the following fees:



 



   1.   Fire Safety Director Certificate Fee.  The owner of the
building shall be responsible for paying the fee based on one Fire Safety
Director Certificate Fee per building.



 



   2.   Floor Warden Certificate Fee.  The owner of the building shall
be responsible for paying the fee based on one Floor Warden Certificate Fee
per floor.



 



   3.   Total Building Evacuation Oversight Fee.  The owner of the
building shall be responsible for paying the Total Building Evacuation
Oversight Fee.



 



 



SEC. 57.408.10.2.  DUE DATES.



 



   Due dates shall be established by Sections 57.408.10.2.1 through
57.408.10.2.4.



 



 



SEC. 57.408.10.2.1.  INITIAL PAYMENT.



 



   The permit fee shall initially be due, and shall accompany the filing
of an initial permit application, on the 1st of January following the date of
construction, as that term is defined in Section 57.105.9.4.  For buildings
constructed prior to the effective date of these provisions, the initial
payment shall be due on the 1st of January following that effective date.



 



 



SEC. 57.408.10.2.2.  ANNUAL RENEWAL.



 



   Annual renewal of certificates and payment of fees for renewal of those
existing certificates shall be due and payable each year on the first day of
January of the calendar year and shall be submitted with the renewal
application.



 



 



SEC. 57.408.10.2.3.  TOTAL BUILDING EVACUATION PAYMENT.



 



   The Total Building Evacuation Oversight Fee shall be due and payable
each year on the first day of January of the calendar year and shall be
submitted with the renewal application.



 



 



SEC. 57.408.10.2.4.  DELINQUENCY.



 



   Fees, whether initial or renewal, which are not paid within 60 days
after the due date shall be deemed delinquent and subject to a 50% penalty.



 



 



SEC. 57.408.10.3.  COMPUTATION-MANNER OF DETERMINING COST.



 



   The Board, with the concurrence of the Office of the City
Administrative Officer, shall determine on a regular basis, not less
frequently than once every two years, the verifiable cost to the City for the
certificate fees and the fees for the evacuation oversight for high-rise
buildings.  These costs shall be the actual costs incurred as determined by
the Board.  The costs shall include both direct and indirect costs to the
City.  The Board shall use these costs to develop a cost recovery schedule
of applicable charges.  The Board shall adopt such costs as fees at any time
during each fiscal year. The cost recovery schedule shall recover the
verifiable annual costs of administering the certificates for Fire Safety
Directors and Floor Wardens, as well as the administration of the total
evacuation oversight for high-rise buildings, which shall include the cost of
collection of any fees due and owing in connection with these fees.  It
shall take into consideration the number of certificates issued that are
subject to the fees.  Upon adoption of a schedule of verifiable costs by the
Board, as provided herein, the Board shall transmit the Board order to the
Mayor and to the City Council for approval.



 



 



SEC. 57.408.10.4.  MANNER OF ASSESSING FEES.



 



   The cost recovery schedule amended herein shall impose a charge per
certificate and set forth the applicable charges for total evacuation
oversight.



 



 



SEC. 57.408.11.  VIOLATIONS.



 



   Violations shall be punishable as provided in this Fire Code as listed
below.



 



   1.   Each person, owner, manager, tenant, or other responsible party
shall be guilty of a separate offense for each and every day during any
portion of which any violation of any provision of this section is committed,
continued or permitted by that person, and shall be punishable as provided in
the Fire Code and as set forth below.



 



   2.   In addition, any condition caused or permitted to exist in
violation of any of the provisions of this section shall be deemed a public
nuisance and may be summarily abated as such by the City.  Each day that
such a condition continues shall be deemed to be a new and separate offense.



 



 



SEC. 57.408.11.1.  PENALTIES AND MINIMUM FINES.



 



   Violation of Section 57.408, including refusal to participate in a
mandatory fire drill required by this section, shall be subject to penalties
and minimum fines as prescribed in Section 57.109.4.2 and Table 57.109.4.



 



 



SEC. 57.501.  GENERAL.



 



   Chapter 5 of the CFC is hereby adopted by reference with the following
exceptions, modifications, and additions; and where the CFC did not adopt the
IFC, those sections of the IFC are hereby adopted by reference with the
following exceptions, modifications and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.501.1.1.  LOS ANGELES CITY SCOPE.



 



   This chapter regulates Fire Department access, fire hydrants, and
fire-flow.  Fire hydrant and fire-flow requirements are based upon land
use.  Also included are minimum requirements for Supplemental Fire
Protection based on Fire Department response time capabilities, personnel,
apparatus availability, and fire-flow.



 



 



SEC. 57.502.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   Section 502 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.502.1.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   Fire-flow



 



   Supplemental Fire Protection



 



 



SEC. 57.503.  FIRE APPARATUS ACCESS ROADS.



 



   Sections 503 of the 2015 edition of the IFC and CFC are hereby adopted
in their entirety with the following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.503.1.4.  BUILDING STRUCTURE MORE THAN 150 FEET FROM THE EDGE OF THE
ROADWAY.



 



   If any portion of the first story exterior walls of any building
structure is more than 150 feet from the edge of the roadway of an approved
street, an approved fire lane shall be provided so that such portion is
within 150 feet of the edge of the fire lane.



 



   EXCEPTION:  An entrance to any dwelling unit or guest room shall not
be more than 150 feet in distance of horizontal travel from the edge of
roadway of an improved street or approved fire lane.



 



 



SEC. 57.503.1.5.  DEAD-END IN ACCESS.



 



   When required access is provided by an improved street, fire lane or
combination of both which results in a dead-end in access of 700 feet in
length from the nearest cross street, at least one additional ingress-egress
roadway shall be provided in such a manner that an alternative means of
ingress-egress is accomplished.



 



 



SEC. 57.503.1.6.  EASEMENTS.



 



   Where fire lanes are required under Section 57.503.1.4 of this section
to provide access for Fire Department emergency vehicles, and such fire lanes
are other than access roads, they shall be granted to the City without cost
as easements from a public street or alley to the required terminal point,
provided, however, that the easement requirement may be waived, unless
otherwise required by the General Plan of the City of Los Angeles, where the
Department determines that the acquisition of an easement is not necessary
for the protection of the public safety and welfare.  Fire lanes shall be
designated and maintained as follows:



 



   1.   Fire lanes shall have a minimum clear roadway width of 20 feet
when no parking is allowed on either side.



 



   2.   Those portions of a fire lane which must accommodate the
operation of Fire Department aerial ladder apparatus shall have a minimum
clear roadway width of 28 feet when no parking is allowed on either side.



 



   3.   Those portions of a fire lane 30 feet on either side of a
private fire hydrant shall have a minimum clear roadway width of 28 feet. 
No parking shall be permitted within those portions of the roadway which are
within 30 feet of and on the same side of the roadway as a private fire
hydrant.



 



   4.   Where parking is allowed on only one side of a required fire
lane, parking shall be on the same side of the roadway as the hydrants.



 



   5.   Where parallel parking is allowed on either side of a fire
lane, the roadway width shall be increased eight feet for each parking lane.



 



   6.   Where access requires accommodation of Fire Department
apparatus, overhead clearance shall not be less than 14 feet.



 



   7.   Dead end fire lanes shall terminate in cul-de-sacs or other
approved turning areas consistent with the Department of Public Works
Standard Street Dimension Plan D-22549.



 



   8.   Fire lanes shall be paved to the City Engineer’s standards
for public alleys.



 



 



SEC. 57.503.4.2.  FIRE LANE MAINTENANCE.



 



   Any person owning or having control of any facility, structure, group
of structures or premises, shall maintain all fire lanes in an unobstructed
manner.



 



   EXCEPTION:  Gates and gate devices approved by the Department.



 



 



SEC. 57.503.4.3.  OBSTRUCTIONS ON FIRE ROADS AND FIREBREAKS.



 



   No person shall install or maintain a radio or television aerial, or
the guy wires thereto, on any fire road or firebreak.  Antenna wire shall be
not less than 16 feet above a fire road or firebreak.



 



 



SEC. 57.503.5.3.  TAMPERING WITH ESTABLISHED LOCKS OR BARRIERS.



 



   No person, except when authorized by the Chief, or an officer or
employee of the City acting within the scope of his or her public duties,
shall unlock, or tamper with, or cause to be unlocked or tampered with in any
manner, any lock, gate, door, seal, barrier, or enclosure which is installed
by or under control of the Fire Department of the City of Los Angeles.



 



 



SEC. 57.504.  ACCESS TO BUILDING OPENINGS AND ROOFS.



 



   Section 504 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.505.  PREMISES IDENTIFICATION.



 



   Section 505 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.505.1.1.  SIZE.



 



   Additional requirements of address size shall be as follows:



 



   1.   The height in inches of any number or letter therein shall be
the sum of 1/10 of the distance in feet of the number from the boundary of
the property (upon which the building, structure, or parking lot is situated)
abutting the street, plus 2, providing that every number shall not be less
than 4 inches in height.



 



   2.   The overall width of any figure in or comprising the number or
letter shall be 1/2 of its height.  The width of any portion of a figure in
or comprising the number or letter shall be 1/10 of its height.



 



 



SEC. 57.505.1.2.  LOCATION.



 



   Design (including shape and style) as well as location of the street
address numbers shall be such that they are legible and easily readable. 
Irrespective of whether the street address number was established before or
after June 1, 1973, the Chief shall have the authority to prescribe a street
address number larger in size than the dimensions stated in Section
57.505.1.1 when it is determined that due to lighting conditions, building
location, shadows, background, or other reasons, street address numbers of
minimum dimensions will not be easily readable from the street or approach to
the entrance.  A street address number of unusual design or placement may
not be employed without prior written approval of the Chief.



 



 



SEC. 57.506.  KEY BOXES.



 



   Section 506 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.507.  FIRE PROTECTION WATER SUPPLIES.



 



   Section 507 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.507.3.  FIRE-FLOW.



 



   Fire-flow requirements for buildings or portions of buildings and
facilities shall be determined by an approved method as set forth in Sections
57.507.3.1 through 57.507.3.3.



 



 



SEC. 57.507.3.1.  FIRE-FLOW REQUIREMENTS.



 



   Fire-flows shall comply with Table 57.507.3.1 for any structures, group
of structures or facilities by the type of land development, or as otherwise
determined by the Chief.



 



   1.   Where street alignments mandate the installation of dead-end
mains, the fire-flow in gallons per minute may be adjusted downward,
depending on the type of land development.



 



   2.   A minimum residual water pressure of 20 pounds per square inch
is to remain in the system with the required gallons per minute flowing.



 



TABLE 57.507.3.1
FIRE-FLOW BY TYPE OF LAND DEVELOPMENT



 



 


Type of Land Development

 

Fire-Flow in Gallons Per Minute




Low Density Residential

 

2,000 G.P.M. from three adjacent fire hydrants flowing simultaneously




High Density Residential and Neighborhood Commercial

 

4,000 G.P.M. from four adjacent fire hydrants flowing simultaneously




Industrial and Commercial

 

6,000 to 9,000 G.P.M. from four to six fire hydrants flowing simultaneously




High Density Industrial and Commercial (Principal Business Districts or
Centers)

 

12,000 G.P.M. available to any block (where local conditions indicate that
consideration must be given to simultaneous fires, and additional 2,000 to
8,000 G.P.M. will be required).




 



 



SEC. 57.507.3.2.  FIRE HYDRANT SPACING.



 



   Fire hydrant spacing and type of hydrant, by type of land
development.  See Table 57.507.3.2.



 



   1.   Every first story dwelling unit, first story guest room, and
all first story portions of any commercial or industrial building must be
within 300 feet of an approved fire hydrant.



 



   2.   All fire hydrants shall have 21/2" x 4" outlets or 4" x 4"
outlets and conform to the minimum standards of the American Water Works
Association for wet barrel hydrants.  A minimum of one fire hydrant is to be
provided at each intersection.  “Built-up” type single 2-1/2" outlet
hydrants (6" pipe surmounted by an angle valve) shall be used in areas having
a static water pressure of 210 P.S.I. or more.



 



   3.   Streets with raised median center dividers, excessive traffic
loads, or more than 80 feet in dedicated width require the installation of
hydrants on both sides of the street.  Additional intermediate hydrants are
required in areas where restricted access, depth of lots, or blocks exceeding
the maximum hydrant spacing intervals exist.



 



TABLE 57.507.3.2
FIRE HYDRANT SPACING



 



 


Type of Land Development

 

Net Land Area Served Per Hydrant

 

Distance Between Hydrants on Roads and Fire Lanes

 

Type of Hydrant




Low Density Residential

 

*150,000 Sq.Ft.

 

600 Ft.

 

2 1/2" x 4" Double Fire Hydrant




High Density Residential & Neighborhood Commercial

 

*100,000 Sq.Ft

 

300-450 Ft.

 

2 1/2" x 4" Double Fire Hydrant




Industrial & Commercial

 

*80,000 Sq.Ft.

 

300 Ft.

 

2 1/2" x 4" Double Fire Hydrant or
4" x 4" Double Fire Hydrant




High Density Industrial & Commercial

 

*40,000 Sq.Ft.

 

300 Ft.

 

4" x 4" Double Fire Hydrant




 



*This figure will be systematically reduced where greater fire-flow is
required due to restricted access, depth of lots, length of blocks, or
additional hazards.



 



 



SEC. 57.507.3.3.  LAND USE.



 



   Land use and required fire-flow.  See Table 57.507.3.3.



 



TABLE 57.507.3.3
RESPONSE DISTANCES THAT IF EXCEEDED REQUIRE THE INSTALLATION OF AN AUTOMATIC
FIRE SPRINKLERS SYSTEM



 



 


* Land Use

 

Required Fire-Flow

 

Maximum Response Distance **




Engine Co.

 

Truck Co.




Low Density Residential

 

2,000 g.p.m. from three adjacent  hydrants flowing simultaneously

 

1-1/2 miles

 

2 miles




High Density Residential and Commercial Neighborhood

 

4,000 g.p.m. from four adjacent hydrants flowing simultaneously

 

1-1/2 miles

 

2 miles




Industrial and Commercial

 

6,000 to 9,000 g.p.m. from four hydrants flowing simultaneously

 

1 mile

 

1-1/2 miles




High Density Industrial and Commercial or Industrial (Principal Business
Districts or Centers)

 

12,000 g.p.m. available to any block (where local conditions indicate that
consideration must be given to simultaneous fires, an additional 2,000 to
8,000 g.p.m. will be required)

 

3/4 mile

 

1 mile




 



*Land use designations are contained in the community plan elements of the
General Plan for the City of Los Angeles.



 



**The maximum response distances for both L.A.F.D. fire suppression companies
(engine and truck) must be satisfied.



 



 



SEC. 57.507.5.4.1.  OBSTRUCTIONS OF FIRE PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT.



 



   No person shall erect, construct, maintain, or build, or cause to be
erected, constructed, or built, any structure, screen, or fence in such a
location as to prohibit or restrict the ready operation and use of any fire
hydrant, fire department connection to sprinkler system, exterior or
combination standpipe system, or other installed fire protection equipment,
nor plant or allow the growth of any vegetation which will hide or obscure
said installed fire protection equipment.



 



 



SEC. 57.507.5.4.2.  OBSTRUCTION BY VEHICLE.



 



   No person shall park or place any vehicle or other mobile equipment in
such a manner or position which would hinder or restrict the immediate and
complete use, by the Department, of any fire hydrant, Fire Department
connection to a sprinkler system, exterior or combination standpipe system,
or any other fire protection equipment which is installed for Fire Department
use.



 



 



SEC. 57.507.5.4.3.  PENALTIES AND MINIMUM FINES.



 



   Violation of Sections 57.507.5.4.1 through 57.507.5.4.2 shall be
subject to penalties and minimum fines as prescribed in Section 57.109.4.2
and Table 57.109.4.



 



 



SEC. 57.507.5.7.  FIRE HYDRANT IDENTIFICATION.



 



   The Department shall have the authority to identify any fire hydrant by
installing a blue reflector on the street or access road adjacent to the
hydrant.



 



 



SEC. 57.508.  FIRE COMMAND CENTER.



 



   Section 508 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.508.1.1.1.  FIRE COMMAND CENTER SIGN.



 



   The entrance to the Fire Command Center shall be identified by a sign
reading, “Fire Control Room,” or “Fire Command Center” in letters not
less than 1 1/2 inches in height.



 



 



SEC. 57.508.1.5.1.  OTHER USES.



 



   The Fire Command Center shall not be used for any other purpose.



 



 



SEC. 57.509.  FIRE PROTECTION AND UTILITY EQUIPMENT IDENTIFICATION AND
ACCESS.



 



   Section 509 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.509.3.  FIRE PROTECTION EQUIPMENT ACCESS.



 



   Sprinkler Valves, Standpipes, and Other Fire Protection Equipment: 
Access to sprinkler valves, standpipes, and other fire protection equipment
provided in storage areas shall be served by either a main aisle, side aisle,
or an aisle with a minimum width of 3 feet.  (See Section 57.903.3.10 Access
Aisles and Operating Clearances.)



 



 



SEC. 57.510.  EMERGENCY RESPONDER RADIO COVERAGE.



 



   Section 510 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.  Where
Section 510 of the CFC is not adopted then Section 510.3 of the IFC is
adopted.



 



 



SEC. 57.511.  HEARINGS TO BE HELD IN CONNECTION WITH CONSTRUCTION OF
FIREROADS.



 



   Section 511 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.511.1.  DUTIES OF THE CHIEF.



 



   It shall be the duty of the Chief to make a report to the Board
concerning any plans for the construction or widening of fire roads,
firebreaks, and fuelbreaks.



 



 



SEC. 57.511.2.  PUBLIC HEARINGS.



 



   Prior to the performance of any work of construction or widening of
fire roads, firebreaks, and fuelbreaks, the Board shall hold a public hearing
on the plans therefor.



 



 



SEC. 57.511.3.  NOTICE OF THE TIME, PLACE, AND PURPOSE.



 



   Notice of the time, place, and purpose of a public hearing shall be
given in the following manner:



 



   1.   By at least one publication in a newspaper of general
circulation in the City, designated for the purpose of the City Clerk, not
less than ten days prior to the date of the hearing.



 



   2.   By mailing written notice not less than ten days prior to the
date of such hearing, to the owners of all property within 300 feet of the
boundaries of the proposed fire roads, firebreaks, and fuelbreaks, or in
those instances where existing fire roads, firebreaks, and fuelbreaks are
proposed to be widened within 300 feet of the new boundaries.  Where all
property within the 300-foot radius is under the same ownership as the
property upon which the construction is proposed to be performed, the owners
of all property adjoining that property in the same ownership as that
involved in the proposed construction, or separated only by a street, alley,
public right-of-way or other easement, shall also be notified in the same
manner.



 



 



SEC. 57.511.4.  FIREBREAKS.



 



   The provisions of this section shall not be applicable to firebreaks
authorized to be constructed pursuant to Section 57.104.11.4 of this article.



 



 



SEC. 57.512.  RESPONSE DISTANCES THAT IF EXCEEDED REQUIRE THE INSTALLATION
OF AN AUTOMATIC FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEM.



 



 



SEC. 57.512.1.  RESPONSE DISTANCES.



 



   Response distances based on land use and fire-flow requirements shall
comply with Table 57.507.3.3.  These requirements pertain to all buildings
and structures, groups of structures, or facilities unless otherwise
determined by the Chief.



 



 



SEC. 57.512.2.  AUTOMATIC FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEMS REQUIRED.



 



   Where a response distance is greater than that shown in Table
57.507.3.3, all structures shall be constructed with automatic fire sprinkler
systems.  Additional fire protection shall be provided as required by the
Chief.



 



 



SEC. 57.513.  SUPPLEMENTAL FIRE PROTECTION.



 



 



SEC. 57.513.1.  WHERE REQUIRED.



 



   Where the Chief determines that any or all of the supplemental fire
protection equipment or systems described in this section may be substituted
in lieu of the requirements of this chapter with respect to any facility,
structure, group of structures or premises, the person owning or having
control thereof shall either conform to the requirements of this chapter or
shall install such supplemental equipment or systems. Where the Chief
determines that any or all of such equipment or systems is necessary in
addition to the requirements of this chapter as to any facility, structure,
group of structures or premises, the owner thereof shall install such
required equipment or systems.



 



 



SEC. 57.513.2.  SUPPLEMENTAL FIRE PROTECTION EQUIPMENT OR SYSTEMS.



 



   Supplemental fire protection equipment or systems shall consist of:



 



   1.   Fire protective signaling systems which shall be installed in
accordance with Chapter 9 of this article.



 



   2.   Fire hydrants which shall be installed in accordance with
Section 57.507.3.1 of this chapter, or as required by the Chief.



 



   3.   Automatic fire extinguishing systems which shall be installed
in accordance with, but not limited to, Chapter 9 of this article.



 



   4.   Smoke removal systems which shall be designed for the hazard to
be protected and shall be approved by the Chief.



 



   5.   Standpipe systems which shall be installed in accordance with
Chapter 9 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code (Plumbing Code).



 



   6.   Systems or equipment not specified:  The installation,
arrangement of, or alteration thereto, of other fire protection equipment or
systems which are deemed necessary to provide minimum fire protection as may
be required by the Chief.



 



 



SEC. 57.601.  GENERAL.



 



   Chapter 6 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted by
reference with the following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.602.  DEFINITIONS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Section 602 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted in its
entirety, as amended by the California Building Standards Commission,
effective July 1, 2018, and as thereafter amended from time to time.



 



 



SEC. 57.603.  FUEL-FIRED APPLIANCES.



 



   Section 603 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.603.5.3.  HEATING APPLIANCES.



 



   All stoves, space heaters, water heaters, ovens, furnaces, boilers, and
similar heating appliances shall be constructed, installed, maintained, and
located in such a manner as not to create a fire hazard.



 



 



SEC. 57.603.5.3.1.  LOCATION.



 



   Every stove, space heater, water heater, or similar heating appliance
shall be so located, insulated, or shielded, that it will not raise the
temperature of any adjacent combustible materials, or any construction
containing combustible materials, above 160° F.



 



 



SEC. 57.603.5.3.2.  GUARDING.



 



   Every space heating appliance located in any institutional or assembly
occupancy, or place where the public is admitted shall have exposed surfaces
sufficiently insulated or shielded to prevent the outside surface or shield
temperature from exceeding 160° F.



 



 



SEC. 57.603.10.  HEATING AND LIGHTING EQUIPMENT.



 



 



SEC. 57.603.10.1.  OPEN FLAME IN NO SMOKING AREAS.



 



   No person shall possess or use any open flame or unprotected portable
electric light in any hangar, public garage, barn, tank, floating craft, or
any other place where highly flammable or explosive material is kept or where
“NO SMOKING” signs are posted.  Any portable electric light used in such
places shall be well secured in a glass globe, wire mesh cage, or similar
approved device, and be equipped with a non-conductive handle.



 



 



SEC. 57.603.10.2.  HEATING OR LIGHTING APPARATUS.



 



   No heating or lighting apparatus or equipment capable of igniting
flammable materials of the types stored or handled shall be used in the
storage areas of any warehouse storing rags, cotton, hay, excelsior, hair, or
other flammable or combustible material; or in the work areas of any shop or
factory used for the manufacture, repair or renovating of mattresses or
bedding; or in the work areas of any establishment used for the upholstering
of furniture.



 



 



SEC. 57.603.10.3.  OPEN FLAME FOR LIGHTING AND DECOR.



 



   The location and installation of open flame lighting and decorating
fixtures for interior or exterior of any building shall be approved by the
Chief.  They shall not be installed in any area where smoking is prohibited,
within 5 feet of any combustible material such as drapes, curtains, hangings,
decorative screens and foliage, or in any location where the flame or heat
there from would present a hazard to persons or property.



 



 



SEC. 57.604.  EMERGENCY AND STANDBY POWER SYSTEMS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Section 604 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted in its
entirety, as amended by the California Building Standards Commission,
effective July 1, 2018, and as thereafter amended from time to time, with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.604.1.1.1.  ENGINE FUEL TANK.



 



   Every pump which supplies any engine fuel tank shall be provided with
an interlock device so that the pump may operate only when the engine being
supplied is in operation.



 



 



SEC. 57.604.2.1.1.  WINDOW WASHING EQUIPMENT.



 



   Standby power shall be provided to exterior window washing equipment
for use on high-rise buildings.



 



 



SEC. 57.605.  ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT, WIRING AND HAZARDS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Section 605 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted in its
entirety, as amended by the California Building Standards Commission,
effective July 1, 2018, and as thereafter amended from time to time, with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.605.5.5.  PENALTIES AND MINIMUM FINES.



 



   Violation of Sections 57.605.5 through 57.605.5.4 shall be subject to
penalties and minimum fines as prescribed in Section 57.109.4.2 and Table
57.109.4.



 



 



SEC. 57.606.  MECHANICAL REFRIGERATION.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Section 606 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted in its
entirety, as amended by the California Building Standards Commission,
effective July 1, 2018, and as thereafter amended from time to time.



 



 



SEC. 57.607.  ELEVATOR OPERATION, MAINTENANCE AND FIRE SERVICE KEYS.



 



   Section 607 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.608.  STATIONARY STORAGE BATTERY SYSTEMS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Section 608 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted in its
entirety, as amended by the California Building Standards Commission,
effective July 1, 2018, and as thereafter amended from time to time.



 



 



SEC. 57.609.  COMMERCIAL KITCHEN HOODS.



 



   Section 609 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.610.  COMMERCIAL KITCHEN COOKING OIL STORAGE.



 



   Section 610 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.701.  GENERAL.



 



   Chapter 7 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted by
reference with the following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.702.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   Section 702 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.703.  FIRE-RESISTANCE – RATED CONSTRUCTION.



 



   Section 703 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.703.2.4.  OBSTRUCTIONS TO FIRE ASSEMBLIES.



 



   No person shall wedge, block, obstruct, or otherwise cause or allow the
impairment of the operation of a fire assembly.



 



 



SEC. 57.703.2.5.  REMOVING WEDGES.



 



   Any person in charge or control of a building shall remove any block,
wedge, or other device which is known by such person to be causing a
self-closing fire assembly door to remain in an open position.



 



 



SEC. 57.703.2.6.  FIRE ASSEMBLY LABELS.



 



   All fire assembly doors shall have a label or other identification
showing the fire protection rating.  Labels shall be approved and shall be
permanently affixed at the factory.  No person shall remove or otherwise
obliterate the label or other identification showing the fire protection
rating.



 



 



SEC. 57.703.2.7.  PENALTIES AND MINIMUM FINES.



 



   Violation of Sections 57.703.2.4 through 57.703.2.6 shall be subject to
penalties and minimum fines as prescribed in Section 57.109.4.2 and Table
57.109.4.



 



 



SEC. 57.704.  FLOOR OPENINGS AND SHAFTS.



 



   Section 704 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.705.  EXTERIOR WALLS.



 



   Section 705 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.801.  GENERAL.



 



   Chapter 8 of the CFC is hereby adopted by reference with the following
exceptions, modifications, and additions; and Sections 805 and 806 of the IFC
are hereby adopted by reference with the following exceptions, modifications,
and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.801.2.  GENERAL USE OF COMBUSTIBLE DECORATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS ON
WEARING APPAREL.



 



   The general use of combustible decorations and restrictions on wearing
apparel shall be in accordance with Sections 57.801.2.1 through 57.801.2.2.2.



 



 



SEC. 57.801.2.1.  PROHIBITED USE OF DECORATIVE MATERIAL.



 



   No person shall install, maintain, or use for the purpose of decoration
any drape, hanging curtain, drop, vegetation, bunting, cotton batting,
plastic cloth, textile, excelsior, paper, or other combustible material that
would tend to increase the fire and panic hazard in any building or premises
to which the public is admitted or invited.  Decorative materials shall be
noncombustible, flame-retardant, or shall be treated and maintained in a
flame-retardant condition by means of a flame- retardant process approved by
the State Fire Marshal in accordance with Title 19, C.C.R.



 



 



SEC. 57.801.2.2.  SALE OF COMBUSTIBLE DECORATIONS AND WEARING APPAREL.



 



   The sale of combustible decorations and wearing apparel shall be in
accordance with Sections 57.801.2.2.1 and 57.801.2.2.2.



 



 



SEC. 57.801.2.2.1.  RENDERED FLAME-RETARDANT.



 



   No person shall sell or offer for sale any bunting, crepe paper, paper
lanterns, paper light shades, plastic cloth, or other combustible decorative
materials or objects intended to be used for decorative purposes which may
occasion or constitute a fire hazard, unless such materials have been
rendered flame-retardant and are so maintained in accordance with the
provisions of Title 19, C.C.R.



 



 



SEC. 57.801.2.2.2.  PROHIBITED SELL, RENT, LEASE, OR GIVE AWAY OF WEARING
APPAREL.



 



   No person shall sell, rent, lease, or give away any wearing apparel
that is composed of vegetation, bunting, cotton batting, plastic cloth,
excelsior, paper, or other combustible material which constitutes a fire
hazard.



 



 



SEC. 57.802.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   Section 802 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.803.  INTERIOR WALL AND CEILING FINISH AND TRIM IN EXISTING
BUILDINGS.



 



   Section 803 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.804.  INTERIOR WALL AND CEILING TRIM IN NEW AND EXISTING BUILDINGS.



 



   Section 804 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.805.  UPHOLSTERED FURNITURE AND MATTRESSES IN NEW AND EXISTING
BUILDINGS.



 



   Section 805 of the IFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.806.  DECORATIVE VEGETATION IN NEW AND EXISTING BUILDINGS.



 



   Section 806 of the IFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.806.1.4.  CHRISTMAS TREES AND DECORATIONS.



 



   In buildings, tents, premises, or portions thereof, to which the public
is admitted or invited, Christmas trees and decorations shall comply with the
provisions of this subsection.



 



 



SEC. 57.806.1.4.1.  CHRISTMAS TREES.



 



   The base of cut natural trees shall be kept in water or wet sand.



 



 



SEC. 57.806.1.4.2.  FLAME-RETARDANT.



 



   Cut natural trees shall be flame-retardant treated in accordance with
Title 19, C.C.R., and a State Fire Marshal Certificate of Flame Resistance
Tag shall be attached near the base.



 



 



SEC. 57.806.1.4.3.  DECORATIONS.



 



   All decorations used on Christmas trees shall be non-combustible or
flame-retardant and shall meet the requirements of Title 19, C.C.R.



 



 



SEC. 57.806.1.4.4.  FIELD TEST FOR FIRE RESISTANCE.



 



   The Chief may, at any time, take samples from any Christmas tree or
decoration and field test the specimen in accordance with NFPA 705, Chapter
4.  The field test shall be performed in a safe location, using a common
flame applied for 12 seconds of exposure to the sample.  During the
exposure, flaming shall not spread over the complete length of the sample, or
in excess of 4 inches from the bottom of the sample for larger sample
sizes.  After flame shall not be more than two seconds. Materials which
break and drip flaming particles shall be considered hazardous.  Christmas
trees or any decorations determined by the Chief to be a fire hazard shall be
immediately removed from the building.



 



 



SEC. 57.806.1.4.5.  LOCATION.



 



   Christmas trees shall be located clear of exits and aisles and in an
area separated from ordinary combustibles by a distance not less than the
height of the tree.



 



 



SEC. 57.806.1.4.6.  PERMIT.



 



   A Special Permit from the Chief, pursuant to Section 57.105.8 of this
article, shall be required for any storage, display, sale, or other use of
Christmas trees within buildings where more than ten trees are located.



 



 



SEC. 57.806.1.5.  CHRISTMAS TREE SALES.



 



   Every person conducting, managing or operating a Christmas tree sales
business, whether exclusively or in conjunction with the sale of other goods,
wares or merchandise, shall attach, or cause to be attached, a Fire Safety
Tag to each tree greater than 2 feet tall and having a base greater than 1
inch in diameter prior to the sale of such tree.  The tag shall be securely
affixed to the tree and shall have the following statements, as a minimum,
printed on it:



 



   1.   Make a fresh cut on the bottom of the tree; place in a
reservoir tree stand filled with water.



 



   2.   Water Christmas tree daily.



 



   3.   Test your smoke detectors.



 



   4.   Never use lights with frayed cords or empty sockets.



 



   5.   Mini-lights are safest; they produce less heat.



 



   6.   Do not use candles on or near tree.



 



   7.   Turn off all Christmas lights prior to leaving your home or
going to bed.



 



   8.   Safely dispose of your tree before it becomes dangerously dry.



 



   9.   Never burn your tree or any part of it in a fireplace.



 



   10.   Pick-up/drop-off disposal services offered by the Bureau of
Sanitation, Phone No.



 



   The above-referenced telephone number shall be obtained from the Fire
Department.  All statements shall be on one side of the tag.  In the event
a language other than English is the primary language of the majority of
persons residing within one- half mile of the location of the business, the
same statements shall be printed on the reverse side of the tag in that
language.  Tags shall have a minimum width of 3 inches and a minimum length
of 7 inches.  The text of the tag shall be at least 12 points in size in
conventional font.  Tags must be made of 30 lb. weight stock paper or
equivalent.  Each tag shall have a hole at the top to receive a wire-tie,
plastic tie or other material that can be used to attach the tag securely to
the tree.



 



 



SEC. 57.807.  DECORATIVE MATERIALS OTHER THAN DECORATIVE VEGETATION IN NEW
AND EXISTING BUILDINGS.



 



   Section 807 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.807.1.  RESERVED.



 



 



SEC. 57.807.2.  RESERVED.



 



 



SEC. 57.807.3.  RESERVED.



 



 



SEC. 57.807.5.  RESERVED.



 



 



SEC. 57.807.5.1.  RESERVED.



 



 



SEC. 57.807.5.1.1.  RESERVED.



 



 



SEC. 57.807.5.1.2.  RESERVED.



 



 



SEC. 57.807.5.1.3.  RESERVED.



 



 



SEC. 57.807.5.1.4.  RESERVED.



 



 



SEC. 57.807.5.2.  RESERVED.



 



 



SEC. 57.807.5.6.  RESERVED.



 



 



SEC. 57.807.6.  RESERVED.



 



 



SEC. 57.808.  FURNISHING OTHER THAN UPHOLSTERED FURNITURE AND MATTRESSES OR
DECORATIVE MATERIALS IN NEW AND EXISTING BUILDINGS.



 



   Section 808 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.901.  GENERAL.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Chapter 9 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted by
reference, as amended by the California Building Standards Commission,
effective July 1, 2018, and as thereafter amended from time to time, with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.901.4.1.1.  TESTING.



 



   Upon completion of the installation of all new systems or after the
alteration of any existing system, a performance test, as required by Section
57.105.7, shall be conducted in the presence of representatives of the Fire
Department.



 



 



SEC. 57.901.6.3.  PENALTIES AND MINIMUM FINES.



 



   Violation of Section 57.901.6 shall be subject to penalties and minimum
fines as prescribed in Section 57.109.4.2 and Table 57.109.4.



 



 



SEC. 57.901.8.1.1.  SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT.



 



   No person shall willfully and maliciously tamper with, damage, break,
or remove any fire protection equipment, fire assembly, fire protective
signaling system, or smoke detector.



 



 



SEC. 57.901.8.3.  FALSE ALARM.



 



   No person shall willfully and maliciously send, give, transmit, or
sound any false alarm of fire by means of a fire protective signaling system
or by any other means or method.



 



 



SEC. 57.901.8.4.  PENALTIES AND MINIMUM FINES.



 



   Violation of Sections 57.901.8 or 57.901.8.3 shall be subject to
penalties and minimum fines as prescribed in Section 57.109.4.2 and Table
57.109.4.



 



 



SEC. 57.902.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   Section 902 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.903.  AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEMS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Section 903 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted in its
entirety, as amended by the California Building Standards Commission,
effective July 1, 2018, and as thereafter amended from time to time, with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.903.1.2.  SPARE SPRINKLERS HEADS.



 



   Automatic sprinkler systems shall be provided with spare sprinklers
heads as follows:



 



   1.   For systems with not over 300 sprinklers, provide six spare
sprinkler heads.



 



   2.   For systems with 301 to 1,000 sprinklers, provide 12 spare
sprinkler heads.



 



   3.   For systems with over 1,000 sprinklers, provide 24 spare
sprinkler heads.



 



   These spare sprinkler heads shall correspond to the type and
temperature ratings of the sprinkler heads in the system.  These sprinkler
heads shall be kept in a cabinet mounted in the vicinity of the sprinkler
control valve or other approved location if the control valve is outside the
building.  A wrench suitable for the removal and installation of all
sprinkler heads used shall be kept in the cabinet.



 



 



SEC. 57.903.1.2.1.  PENALTIES AND MINIMUM FINES.



 



   Violation of Section 57.903.1.2 shall be subject to penalties and
minimum fines as prescribed in Section 57.109.4.2 and Table 57.109.4.



 



 



SEC. 57.903.3.10.  ACCESS AISLES AND OPERATING CLEARANCES.



 



   A minimum operating clearance of 18 inches shall be provided around
automatic sprinkler and standpipe control valves and Fire Department inlet
connections.



 



 



SEC. 57.903.3.10.1.  PENALTIES AND MINIMUM FINES.



 



   Violation of Section 57.903.3.10 shall be subject to penalties and
minimum fines as prescribed in Section 57.109.4.2 and Table 57.109.4.



 



 



SEC. 57.903.3.11.  SPRINKLER PIPING.



 



   Sprinkler piping shall not be used to support ladders, stock, ropes,
guy wires, electrical wires, extension cords, decorative material, or any
other type of material.



 



 



SEC. 57.903.3.12.  INLET CONNECTION SIGNS.



 



   All Fire Department sprinkler and standpipe inlet connections shall be
provided with approved signs indicating the type of system and the area
served.  Signs shall be securely attached to the building adjacent to the
inlet connections.  Signs shall be not less than 8 inches in width and 4
inches in height.



 



 



SEC. 57.903.3.12.1.  PENALTIES AND MINIMUM FINES.



 



   Violation of Section 57.903.3.12 shall be subject to penalties and
minimum fines as prescribed in Section 57.109.4.2 and Table 57.109.4.



 



 



SEC. 57.903.3.13.  SYSTEM IDENTIFICATION SIGNS.



 



   Automatic sprinkler systems, standpipe systems, fire pumps, and risers
shall be provided and maintained with identification signs for all control,
drain, test, and alarm valves.  Signs shall be of the standard design
approved by the Chief.  Directional arrows shall be provided to indicate
water flow on fire pumps and risers.



 



 



SEC. 57.903.3.13.1.  PENALTIES AND MINIMUM FINES.



 



   Violation of Section 57.903.3.13 shall be subject to penalties and
minimum fines as prescribed in Section 57.109.4.2 and Table 57.109.4.



 



 



SEC. 57.903.4.4.  SECURITY.



 



   Automatic sprinkler and standpipe supply valves shall be of the
indicating type and shall be secured in the open position to prevent
tampering.  Only tamper switches and/or non-hardened chains and locks
approved by the Chief shall be used.



 



 



SEC. 57.903.4.4.1.  PENALTIES AND MINIMUM FINES.



 



   Violation of Section 57.903.4.4 shall be subject to penalties and
minimum fines as prescribed in Section 57.109.4.2 and Table 57.109.4.



 



 



SEC. 57.903.5.1.  DAMAGED HEADS.



 



   Sprinkler heads shall be replaced if painted, corroded, damaged, or
otherwise determined to be ineffective.



 



 



SEC. 57.903.5.2.  USE OF SPRINKLER SYSTEM TO HANG.



 



   Sprinkler heads shall not be used to hang or support anything from them.



 



 



SEC. 57.903.5.3.  SPRINKLER GUARDS REQUIRED.



 



   Sprinkler heads which are in a location where they may be damaged shall
be protected with approved sprinkler guards.



 



 



SEC. 57.903.5.4.  SPRINKLER HEADS IN SPRAYING AREAS.



 



   Sprinkler heads located in spray rooms, spray booths, spray tunnels, or
in spraying areas shall be clean and protected from overspray residue. 
Polyethylene or cellophane bags having a thickness of .003 inch or less or
paper bags of a similar thickness may be used to protect heads from
overspray.  Such bags shall be replaced periodically to prevent the
excessive buildup of overspray.



 



 



SEC. 57.903.5.5.  PENALTIES AND MINIMUM FINES.



 



   Violation of Sections 57.903.5.1 through 57.903.5.4 shall be subject to
penalties and minimum fines as prescribed in Section 57.109.4.2 and Table
57.109.4.



 



 



SEC. 57.904.  ALTERNATIVE AUTOMATIC FIRE-EXTINGUISHING SYSTEMS.



 



   Section 904 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.904.1.2.  PERMITS REQUIRED.



 



   No person shall construct or install an automatic fire extinguishing
system unless a permit for such installation or construction has first been
granted by the Chief in accordance with the provisions Section 57.105.7.



 



 



SEC. 57.904.1.3.  USE PRIOR TO FINAL INSPECTION.



 



   No person shall operate, maintain, or use any automatic fire
extinguishing system until a final inspection tag of approval has been issued
by the Chief in accordance with the provisions of Section 57.105.7.



 



 



SEC. 57.905.  STANDPIPE SYSTEMS.



 



   Section 905 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.905.2.1.  STANDPIPE HOSE OUTLETS.



 



   Standpipe hose outlets shall be subject to testing and approval by the
Chief and any modification granted thereto shall be subject to Fire
Department concurrence.



 



 



SEC. 57.906.  PORTABLE FIRE EXTINGUISHERS.



 



   Section 906 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.906.1.1.  PORTABLE FIRE EXTINGUISHERS FOR ASSEMBLY OCCUPANCIES.



 



   In Group A, Occupancies, one additional Class 2A portable fire
extinguisher shall be provided as follows:



 



   1.   On each side of every stage or platform having an area greater
than 1,000 square feet.  Stages or platforms having an area of 1,000 square
feet or less shall be provided with one extinguisher.



 



   2.   On each side of every fly gallery.



 



   3.   In basements beneath the stage or platform.



 



   4.   In every hallway or passageway leading to a dressing room.



 



   5.   In every property room, carpenter shop, or similar room.



 



 



SEC. 57.906.1.2.  ADDITIONAL CLASS 10B:C EXTINGUISHER.



 



   One additional class 10B:C extinguisher shall be provided as follows:



 



   1.   In each kitchen.



 



   2.   In each electrical room.



 



   3.   Adjacent to each switchboard on any stage or platform.  For
each motion picture machine in projection rooms.  Minimum combined rating
for any projection room shall be 20B:C.



 



 



SEC. 57.906.1.3.  FIRE EXTINGUISHERS FOR INSTITUTIONAL OCCUPANCIES.



 



   Operating rooms in institutional occupancies shall have at least one
class 10B:C extinguisher.



 



 



SEC. 57.906.2.2.  MAINTAINED READY FOR USE.



 



   Portable fire extinguishers shall be maintained in a fully charged and
operable condition and kept in their approved locations when not in use.



 



 



SEC. 57.906.2.3.  ACCESSIBILITY.



 



   Portable fire extinguishers shall be conspicuously located where they
will be readily accessible and immediately available at all times.  When it
is not practical to install extinguishers in a plainly visible location,
signs or other approved identification shall be provided to indicate the
location.



 



 



SEC. 57.906.2.4.  INSTALLATION.



 



   Portable fire extinguishers shall be installed on hangers, in approved
brackets, or set in cabinets unless the extinguishers are of the wheeled type.



 



 



SEC. 57.906.2.5.  MOUNTING HEIGHT.



 



   Portable fire extinguishers having a gross weight not exceeding 40
pounds shall be installed so that the top of the extinguisher is not more
than 5 feet above the floor. Extinguishers having a gross weight greater than
40 pounds (except wheeled type) shall be so installed that the top of the
extinguisher is not more than 3 1/2 feet above the floor.  In no case shall
the clearance between the bottom of the extinguisher and the floor be less
than 4 inches.



 



 



SEC. 57.906.2.6.  TEMPERATURE.



 



   Portable fire extinguishers should not be located where ambient
temperatures exceed 120°F unless otherwise noted on the nameplate of the
extinguisher.



 



 



SEC. 57.906.2.7.  SERVICE REQUIRED.



 



   Fire extinguishers shall be subject to annual maintenance inspections
and subject to internal inspection as required in Title 19, Section 575.



 



 



SEC. 57.906.2.8.  PENALTIES AND MINIMUM FINES.



 



   Violation of Sections 57.906.2 through 57.906.2.7 shall be subject to
penalties and minimum fines as prescribed in Section 57.109.4.2 and Table
57.109.4.



 



 



SEC. 57.907.  FIRE ALARM AND DETECTION SYSTEMS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Section 907 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted in its
entirety, as amended by the California Building Standards Commission,
effective July 1, 2018, and as thereafter amended from time to time, with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.907.1.2.  [FIRE ALARM SHOP DRAWINGS.]



 



   16.   Electrical schematics showing the fire alarm system and all
other information necessary to determine the correct methods of
installation.  Prior to the commencement of installation, the manufacturer
and State Fire Marshal listing shall be included for all components of the
system.



 



   17.   Written sequence of operation describing, in detail, what is
to occur upon activation of a system or device and how the system or device
interfaces with other systems.  Included in this written sequence of
operation shall be all other information necessary to determine the operation
which would be required for the type of occupancy.



 



 



SEC. 57.907.2.8.4.  PENALTIES AND MINIMUM FINES.



 



   Violation of Section 57.907.2.8 shall be subject to penalties and
minimum fines as prescribed in Section 57.109.4.2 and Table 57.109.4.



 



 



SEC. 57.907.2.9.5.  PENALTIES AND MINIMUM FINES.



 



   Violation of Section 57.907.2.9 shall be subject to penalties and
minimum fines as prescribed in Section 57.109.4.2 and Table 57.109.4.



 



 



SEC. 57.907.2.10.4.  PENALTIES AND MINIMUM FINES.



 



   Violation of Section 57.907.2.10 shall be subject to penalties and
minimum fines as prescribed in Section 57.109.4.2 and Table 57.109.4.



 



 



SEC. 57.907.2.11.9.  PENALTIES AND MINIMUM FINES.



 



   Violation of Section 57.907.2.11 shall be subject to penalties and
minimum fines as prescribed in Section 57.109.4.2 and Table 57.109.4.



 



 



SEC. 57.907.2.13.2.1.  FIRE DEPARTMENT VOICE COMMUNICATION SYSTEM.



 



   A sound-powered telephone communication system capable of communication
between all required locations and between such locations and the building
control station shall be provided, as described below.



 



 



SEC. 57.907.2.13.2.1.1.  PHONE JACKS.



 



   Phone jacks shall be located in the following locations:



 



   1.   At every floor level in each enclosed exit stairway.



 



   2.   At every exterior location where an enclosed exit stairway
exits to a public way.



 



   3.   At the exterior of each enclosed exit stairway located on the
roof.



 



   4.   In each elevator car, elevator machine room, elevator lobby,
and each lobby which exits to a public way.



 



 



SEC. 57.907.2.13.2.1.2.  EXTERIOR PHONE JACKS.



 



   All exterior phone jacks shall be weather protected.



 



 



SEC. 57.907.2.13.2.1.3.  APPROVAL.



 



   Sound-powered phone equipment, including communication panel, phone
sets, and location of phone jacks are subject to Fire Department approval.



 



 



SEC. 57.907.2.13.2.1.4.  DESIGN.



 



   Sound-powered phone jacks shall be designed to preclude tampering and
be approved by the Chief.



 



 



SEC. 57.907.2.13.2.1.5.  MINIMUM NUMBER.



 



   A minimum of six handheld phone sets with cords 6 feet in length shall
be maintained at the building control station.  One handheld phone set shall
be permanently installed and shall have a cord long enough to reach all areas
of the building control station.



 



 



SEC. 57.907.5.2.1.4.  AUDIBILITY.



 



   Every alarm signaling device within an occupancy or building shall be
of the same basic type (bells, horns, or speakers) throughout the facility.



 



 



SEC. 57.907.5.2.2.3.  ALTERNATE USES.



 



   The emergency voice/alarm communication system shall not be allowed to
be used for other announcements.



 



 



SEC. 57.907.6.1.  WIRING.



 



   Wiring shall comply with the requirements of the California Electrical
Code and NFPA 72.



 



   EXCEPTION:  Exposed conductors or cables shall not be permitted.



 



   Wireless protection systems utilizing radio-frequency transmitting
devices shall comply with the special requirements for supervision of
low-power wireless systems in NFPA 72.



 



 



SEC. 57.907.6.6.4.  PERMITS REQUIRED.



 



   No person shall maintain, operate, conduct, or contract with others to
engage in the operation of any central station signaling system supervising
station unless a valid permit as required by Section 57.105.6 of this article
has been issued and the operation of such system is done in compliance with
the provisions of Section 57.907.6.



 



 



SEC. 57.907.8.6.  MAINTENANCE OF EQUIPMENT.



 



   All fire protective signaling systems required by this section shall be
maintained in an operable condition at all times.  Upon disruption or
diminishment of the fire protective qualities of such equipment, materials,
or systems, immediate action shall be instituted to effect a reestablishment
of such equipment, material, or systems to their original, normal, and
operational condition.  Systems shall be tested annually and in accordance
with approved written test procedures in a manner satisfactory to the
Chief.  An accurate record of such tests shall be kept by the owner of the
property and such records shall be open to examination by the Chief.



 



 



SEC. 57.907.8.6.1.  PENALTIES AND MINIMUM FINES.



 



   Violation of Section 57.907.8.6 shall be subject to penalties and
minimum fines as prescribed in Section 57.109.4.2 and Table 57.109.4.



 



 



SEC. 57.908.  EMERGENCY ALARM SYSTEMS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Section 908 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted in its
entirety, as amended by the California Building Standards Commission,
effective July 1, 2018, and as thereafter amended from time to time.



 



 



SEC. 57.909.  SMOKE CONTROL SYSTEMS.



 



   Section 909 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.910.  SMOKE AND HEAT REMOVAL.



 



   Section 910 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.911.  EXPLOSION CONTROL.



 



   Section 911 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.912.  FIRE DEPARTMENT CONNECTIONS.



 



   Section 912 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.913.  FIRE PUMPS.



 



   Section 913 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.914.  FIRE PROTECTION BASED ON SPECIAL DETAILED REQUIREMENTS OF USE
AND OCCUPANCY.



 



   Section 914 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.915.  CARBON MONOXIDE DETECTION



 



   Section 915 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.916.  FIRE WATCH.



 



 



SEC. 57.916.1.  SCOPE.



 



   This section shall set forth the requirements of a Fire Watch when the
Chief determines that a building or premises presents a hazard to life or
property as the result of a fire or other emergency, or when it is determined
that any fire protection equipment or system is inoperable, defective, or has
been taken out of service.



 



 



SEC. 57.916.2.  AUTHORITY TO REQUIRE FIRE WATCH.



 



   The Chief may require implementation of a Fire Watch whenever it is
deemed necessary by the Chief to assure minimum fire/life safety as regulated
by this article. The Chief shall specify the number of Fire Watch personnel
and duties to be performed.



 



 



SEC. 57.916.2.1.  AUTHORITY OF THE CHIEF TO ASSIGN DEPARTMENT MEMBERS.



 



   Whenever the owner or person in charge does not provide Fire Watch
personnel as required, the Chief shall have the authority to assign uniformed
Department members until such time as required Fire Watch personnel are
provided.



 



 



SEC. 57.916.2.2.  FIRE WATCH MAINTAINED UNTIL SAFE.



 



   A Fire Watch shall be maintained until such time that the Chief
determines that the building or premises is safe from hazard to life or
property, or when fire protection equipment or systems are restored to
service.



 



 



SEC. 57.916.2.3.  PENALTIES AND MINIMUM FINES.



 



   Violation of Sections 57.916.2 through 57.916.2.2 shall be subject to
penalties and minimum fines as prescribed in Section 57.109.4.2 and Table
57.109.4.



 



 



SEC. 57.916.3.  RESPONSIBILITY FOR INSTRUCTION.



 



   The owner, manager, or person in charge or control of the building or
premises shall assign to the Fire Watch as many personnel as are required by
the Chief, and shall instruct Fire Watch personnel as to:



 



   1.   The procedure for notifying the Fire Department.



 



   2.   The area to be patrolled.



 



   3.   A method of alerting building occupants and an evacuation
procedure.  Note:  When two or more Fire Watch personnel are required,
two-way radios may be required by the Fire Department to facilitate
communication and evacuation.



 



   4.   A procedure shall be provided for reactivating sprinkler valves
in the event of fire when the sprinkler system has been taken out of service,
and any other instruction required by the Chief.



 



 



SEC. 57.916.4.  LOG BOOK.



 



   The owner, manager, or person in charge or control of the premises
shall provide a log book which contains a directory of names, telephone
numbers, and other information to assist in making emergency calls and calls
to key management personnel, and which shall be used to record a history of
patrol rounds.



 



   The log book shall be maintained on the premises and be available for
inspection by the Department.



 



 



SEC. 57.916.5.  SPECIFIC DUTY REQUIREMENTS.



 



   Assigned Fire Watch personnel shall:  be thoroughly familiar with the
area they are patrolling; perform patrol operations according to instructions
from management; patrol their designated area at least once each half hour;
and make reports as instructed.  A written record of patrol rounds and any
significant information shall be recorded in a logbook provided by
management.  Assigned Fire Watch personnel shall also relay any special
orders or pertinent information to relief personnel and remain on duty until
properly relieved.



 



 



SEC. 57.917.  GAS DETECTION SYSTEMS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



 



SEC. 57.917.1.  GAS DETECTION SYSTEMS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Gas detection systems required by this Code shall comply with Sections
57.917.2 through 57.917.11.



 



 



SEC. 57.917.2.  PERMITS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Permits shall be required as set forth in Section 57.105.7.



 



 



SEC. 57.917.2.1.  CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Documentation of the gas detection system design and equipment to be
used that is adequate to demonstrate compliance with the requirements of this
Code shall be provided with the application for permit.



 



 



SEC. 57.917.3.  EQUIPMENT.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Gas detection system equipment shall be designed for use with the gases
being detected and shall be installed in accordance with manufacturers'
instructions.



 



 



SEC. 57.917.4.  POWER CONNECTIONS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Gas detection systems shall be permanently connected to the building
electrical power supply or shall be permitted to be cord connected to an
unswitched receptacle using an approved restraining means that secures the
plug to the receptacle.



 



 



SEC. 57.917.5.  EMERGENCY AND STANDBY POWER.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Where standby or emergency power is not required elsewhere by this
Code, standby or emergency power shall be provided or the gas detection
system shall initiate a trouble signal at an approved location if the power
supply is interrupted.



 



 



SEC. 57.917.6.  SENSOR LOCATIONS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Where a specific location for sensors is not specified elsewhere by
this Code, sensors shall be installed in approved locations where leaking
gases are expected to accumulate.



 



 



SEC. 57.917.7.  GAS SAMPLING.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Gas sampling shall be performed continuously.  Sample analysis shall
be processed immediately after sampling, except as follows:



 



   1.   For HPM gases, sample analysis shall be performed at intervals
not exceeding 30 minutes.



 



   2.   For toxic gases that are not HPM, sample analysis shall be
performed at intervals not exceeding 5 minutes in accordance with Section
57.6004.2.2.7.



 



   3.   Where a less frequent or delayed sampling interval is approved.



 



 



SEC. 57.917.8.  SYSTEM ACTIVATION.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   A gas detection alarm shall be initiated where any sensor detects a
concentration of gas exceeding the following thresholds:



 



   1.   For flammable gases, a gas concentration exceeding 25 percent
of the lower flammable limit (LFL).



 



   2.   For nonflammable gases, a gas concentration exceeding the
threshold specified by the section of this Code requiring a gas detection
system. Upon activation of a gas detection alarm, alarm signals or other
required responses shall be as specified by the section of this Code
requiring a gas detection system.  Audible and visible alarm signals
associated with a gas detection alarm shall be distinctive from fire alarm
and carbon monoxide alarm signals.



 



 



SEC. 57.917.9.  SIGNAGE.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Signs shall be provided adjacent to gas detection system alarm
signaling devices that advise occupants of the nature of the signals and
actions to take in response to the signal.



 



 



SEC. 57.917.10.  FIRE ALARM SYSTEM CONNECTIONS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Gas sensors and gas detection systems shall not be connected to fire
alarm systems unless approved and connected in accordance with the fire alarm
equipment manufacturer's instructions.



 



 



SEC. 57.917.11.  INSPECTION, TESTING AND SENSOR CALIBRATION.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Inspection and testing of gas detection systems shall be conducted not
less than annually.  Sensor calibration shall be confirmed at the time of
sensor installation and calibration shall be performed at the frequency
specified by the sensor manufacturer.



 



 



SEC. 57.1001.  ADMINISTRATION.



 



   Chapter 10 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted by
reference with the following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.1002.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   Section 1002 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.1003.  GENERAL MEANS OF EGRESS.



 



   Section 1003 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.1004.  OCCUPANT LOAD.



 



   Section 1004 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.1004.2.1.  DETERMINATION OF OCCUPANT LOAD.



 



   The maximum occupant load for the use of any occupancy shall be
determined by Sections 57.1004.2.1.1 through 571004.2.1.2.



 



 



SEC. 57.1004.2.1.1.  CHIEFS’ APPROVAL REQUIRED.



 



   The Chief shall determine the maximum occupant load permitted for any
assembly occupancy, or any portion of other occupancies used for assembly
purposes, based upon the provisions of this chapter.  The maximum occupant
load shall not exceed the maximum occupant load designated in the Certificate
of Occupancy issued by the Department of Building and Safety, or in the
absence of such certificate, the maximum occupant load approved by the Chief.



 



 



SEC. 57.1004.2.1.2.  PLANS REQUIRED.



 



   To determine occupant load and exit requirements, floor plans shall be
submitted to the Chief for the proposed occupancy.  Such plans shall be
drawn to scale and shall show all seats, tables, furnishings, equipment, and
all aisles, cross aisles, and exit doorways in accordance with this
chapter.  An approved floor plan for the occupancy shall be on the premises
and available for inspection by the Chief.  The approval date on the floor
plan shall coincide with the approval date on the posted occupant load sign.



 



 



SEC. 57.1004.2.2.  OCCUPANT LOAD RESPONSIBILITY.



 



   No manager or person in control thereof shall admit to any assembly
occupancy or premises a greater number of persons than that for which the
exit facilities are designed or maintained or a greater number than the
maximum occupant load stated as a condition of any permit required by Section
57.105.6.



 



 



SEC. 57.1004.3.1.  MULTIPLE USES.



 



   Areas within a place of assemblage having multiple uses shall have the
maximum number of occupants for each use posted.



 



 



SEC. 57.1004.3.2.  MAINTAINING THE OCCUPANT LOAD SIGNS.



 



   The manager or person in control of any place of assemblage shall be
responsible for maintaining the occupant load signs and floor plans required
by Chapter 10.



 



 



SEC. 57.1004.3.3.  COMPLIANCE WITH OCCUPANT LOAD.



 



   The manager or person in control of any place of assemblage shall not
permit more persons in attendance than that number of occupants shown on the
approved occupant load sign.



 



 



SEC. 57.1004.3.4.  PROVIDED BY.



 



   A sign entitled “Occupant Load” shall be provided by the owner,
manager, or person in control, or by the Department, subject to approval by
the Chief, and shall contain the following information:



 



   In accordance with Sections 57.1004.3 through 57.1004.3.4, of Chapter 5
Article 7 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.  This assembly room or area is
approved for the following use(s) and the maximum number of occupants shall
not exceed that shown.



 



   Use



 



   Number of Occupants



 



   Address of Occupancy



 



   Assembly Room Designation



 



   Date approved



 



 



SEC. 57.1004.3.5.  SIZE OF LETTERS.



 



   The words on the sign designating occupant load, the use, and the
number of occupants shall be in letters not less than 1/2 inch in height.



 



 



SEC. 57.1004.7.  OVERCROWDING.



 



   No manager or person in control of any assembly occupancy or premises
shall allow an overcrowded condition to exist in that assembly occupancy or
premises.



 



 



SEC. 57.1004.7.1.  OVERCROWDED CONDITION.



 



   No person shall remain in any building or premises that is overcrowded
when told to leave by the manager or person in control thereof or by any
authorized enforcement officer.



 



 



SEC. 57.1004.8.  EXITS.



 



   No manager or person in control thereof shall allow the use of any
room, building or premises without providing the exits required by this
article, Titles 19 and 24, C.C.R., and Chapter 9 of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code (Building Code).



 



 



SEC. 57.1005.  MEANS OF EGRESS SIZING.



 



   Section 1005 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.1006.  NUMBER OF EXITS AND EXIT ACCESS DOORWAYS.



 



   Section 1006 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.1007.  EXIT AND EXIT ACCESS DOORWAY CONFIGURATION.



 



   Section 1007 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.1008.  MEANS OF EGRESS ILLUMINATION.



 



   Section 1008 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.1008.4.  PENALTIES AND MINIMUM FINES.



 



   Violation of Sections 57.1008.1 through 57.1008.3 shall be subject to
penalties and minimum fines as prescribed in Section 57.109.4.2 and Table
57.109.4.



 



 



SEC. 57.1009.  ACCESSIBLE MEANS OF EGRESS



 



   Section 1009 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.1010.  DOORS, GATES, AND TURNSTILES.



 



   Section 1010 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.1010.1.2.2.  DOUBLE-ACTING DOORS.



 



   Double-acting doors shall not be used as exits when any of the
following conditions exist:



 



   1.   The occupant load served by the door is 100 or more.



 



   2.   The door is part of a fire assembly.



 



   3.   The door is part of a smoke and draft-control assembly.



 



   4.   Panic hardware is required or provided on the door.



 



 



SEC. 57.1010.1.2.2.1.  VIEW PANEL.



 



   A double-acting door shall be provided with a view panel of not less
than 200 square inches.



 



 



SEC. 57.1010.1.9.11.1.  LOCKS ON PENTHOUSE DOORS.



 



   No person shall install, maintain, or use any lock or latch on any door
providing access from a penthouse or stairway to the roof of a building
except a lock or latch which is openable from the inside without the use of a
key, tool, or special knowledge or effort, as determined by the Chief.



 



 



SEC. 57.1010.1.12.  PENALTIES AND MINIMUM FINES.



 



   Violation of Sections 57.1010.1.1, 57.1010.1.2, 57.1010.1.2.1,
57.1010.1.9, 57.1010.1.9.3 or 57.1010.1.9.11.1 shall be subject to penalties
and minimum fines as prescribed in Section 57.109.4.2 and Table 57.109.4.



 



 



SEC. 57.1011.  STAIRWAYS.



 



   Section 1011 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.1012.  RAMPS.



 



   Section 1012 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.1013.  EXIT SIGNS.



 



   Section 1013 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.1013.1.1.  LOCATION.



 



   Exit signs, or directional exit signs, or both, shall be provided at
every exit door, at the intersection of corridors, at exit stairways or ramps
and at such other locations and intervals as are necessary to provide the
occupants with knowledge of at least two means of egress.



 



 



SEC. 57.1013.1.1.1.  PENALTIES AND MINIMUM FINES.



 



   Violation of Section 57.1013.1.1 shall be subject to penalties and
minimum fines as prescribed in Section 57.109.4.2 and Table 57.109.4.



 



 



SEC. 57.1014.  HANDRAILS.



 



   Section 1014 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.1015.  GUARDS.



 



   Section 1015 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.1016.  EXIT ACCESS.



 



   Section 1016 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.1017.  EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE.



 



   Section 1017 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.1018.  AISLES.



 



   Section 1018 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.1019.  EXIT ACCESS STAIRWAYS AND RAMPS.



 



   Section 1019 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.1020.  CORRIDORS.



 



   Section 1020 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.1021.  EGRESS BALCONIES.



 



   Section 1021 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.1022.  EXITS.



 



 



SEC. 57.1023.  INTERIOR EXIT STAIRWAYS AND RAMPS.



 



   Section 1023 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.1023.9.2.  STAIRWAY IDENTIFICATION SYSTEM.



 



   The Chief shall have the authority to determine the floor level number
placed on the sign so as to standardize the signs installed in stairways. 
Floor level numbers placed on such signs shall conform to the Chief’s
specifications.



 



 



SEC. 57.1023.9.3.  PENALTIES AND MINIMUM FINES.



 



   Violation of Sections 57.1023.9 through 57.1023.9.2 shall be subject to
penalties and minimum fines as prescribed in Section 57.109.4.2 and Table
57.109.4.



 



 



SEC. 57.1024.  EXIT PASSAGEWAYS.



 



   Section 1024 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.1025.  LUMINOUS EGRESS PATH MARKINGS.



 



   Section 1025 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.1026.  HORIZONTAL EXITS.



 



   Section 1026 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.1027.  EXTERIOR EXIT STAIRWAYS AND RAMPS.



 



   Section 1027 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.1028.  EXIT DISCHARGE.



 



   Section 1028 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.1029.  ASSEMBLY.



 



   Section 1029 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.1029.6.5.  DISPLAYS.



 



   In areas used for display of equipment, booths, or similar uses, aisles
shall be provided as follows:



 



   1.   Areas containing less than 5,000 square feet of usable floor
space shall be provided with 6 feet wide aisles arranged so as not to exceed
the distance of travel requirements of this section.



 



   2.   Areas containing 5,000 to 30,000 square feet of usable floor
space shall be provided with 8 feet wide aisles arranged so as to not exceed
the distance of travel requirements of this section.



 



   3.   Areas containing more than 30,000 square feet of usable floor
space shall be provided with 10 feet wide aisles arranged so as to not exceed
the distance of travel requirements of this section.



 



   4.   Aisles that are provided for the convenience of persons in
attendance and are not required for exit purposes may be reduced below the
required aisle width by 2 feet.



 



 



SEC. 57.1029.12.1.3.  SPACING OF TABLES.



 



   Tables shall be arranged so that the seating edges of adjacent tables
are not less than 54 inches apart.  Rectangular tables arranged to
accommodate seating on one side only shall have not less than 36 inches
between adjacent table edges.



 



 



SEC. 57.1030.  EMERGENCY ESCAPE AND RESCUE.



 



   Section 1030 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.1031.  MAINTENANCE OF THE MEANS OF EGRESS.



 



   Section 1031 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.1031.2.1.1.  PENALTIES AND MINIMUM FINES.



 



   Violation of Section 57.1031.2 shall be subject to penalties and
minimum fines as prescribed in Section 57.109.4.2 and Table 57.109.4.



 



 



SEC. 57.1031.3.2.  USE.



 



   No part of a stairway, whether interior or exterior, nor of a
smoke-proof enclosure, hallway, corridor, vestibule, balcony, or bridge
leading to a stairway or exit of any kind, shall be used in any way that will
obstruct its use as an exit or that will present a fire hazard.



 



 



SEC. 57.1031.3.3.  OBSTRUCTIONS TO FIRE ASSEMBLIES.



 



   No person shall wedge, block, obstruct, or otherwise cause or allow the
impairment of the operation of a fire assembly.



 



 



SEC. 57.1031.3.4.  REMOVING WEDGES.



 



   Any person in charge or control of a building shall remove any block,
wedge, or other device which is known by such person to be causing a
self-closing fire assembly door to remain in an open position.



 



 



SEC. 57.1031.3.5.  PENALTIES AND MINIMUM FINES.



 



   Violation of Sections 57.1031.3 through 57.1031.3.4 shall be subject to
penalties and minimum fines as prescribed in Section 57.109.4.2 and Table
57.109.4.



 



 



SEC. 57.1101.  GENERAL.



 



   Chapter 11 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted by
reference with the following exceptions, modifications, and additions; and
only Sections 1101, 1103.1 through 1103.3.2, 1104 through 1104.24, and 1106.1
through 1106.1.2 of the 2015 edition of the IFC are hereby adopted by
reference with the following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.1102.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   Section 1102 of the IFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.1103.  FIRE SAFETY REQUIREMENTS FOR EXISTING BUILDINGS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Section 1103 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted in its
entirety, as amended by the California Building Standards Commission,
effective July 1, 2018, and as thereafter amended from time to time. 
Sections 1103.1 through 1103.3.2 of the 2015 IFC are hereby adopted through
reference.



 



 



SEC. 57.1104.  MEANS OF EGRESS FOR EXISTING BUILDINGS.



 



   Section 1104 of the IFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.1104.16.  FIRE ESCAPE STAIRS.



 



   Fire escape stairs shall comply with Sections 57.1104.16.1 through
57.1104.16.8.



 



 



SEC. 57.1104.16.4.  ACCESS.



 



   Access to fire escapes shall be any one of the following:



 



   1.   Through a room between the corridor and the fire escape if the
door to the room is openable from the corridor side without the use of a key,
tool, or special knowledge or effort, or by an alternate method of access, as
determined by the Chief.



 



   2.   By a door openable to a fire escape from the interior without
the use of a key, tool, or special knowledge or effort, as determined by the
Chief.



 



   3.   By a window openable from the interior without the use of a
key, tool, or special knowledge or effort, as determined by the Chief.  Such
window shall have a minimum dimension of 29 inches when open.  The sill
shall be not more than 30 inches above the floor and landing.



 



 



SEC. 57.1104.16.7.1.  USE OF FIRE ESCAPE.



 



   No person shall attach or fasten, or cause to be fastened, to any part
of any fire escape, any rope, wire cable or similar device, except approved
standard equipment, nor shall any person store or maintain anything upon any
part of any fire escape.



 



 



SEC. 57.1104.16.8.  PROTECTION OF EXTERIOR OPENINGS.



 



   When a fire escape is designated as one of the required exits from a
building, the openings onto the fire escape landing and other openings within
5 feet horizontally of the landing shall be protected in a manner acceptable
to the Chief.



 



 



SEC. 57.1104.16.9.  PENALTIES AND MINIMUM FINES.



 



   Violation of Section 57.1104.16 shall be subject to penalties and
minimum fines as prescribed in Section 57.109.4.2 and Table 57.109.4.



 



 



SEC. 57.1105.  RESERVED.



 



 



SEC. 57.1106.  REQUIREMENTS FOR OUTDOOR OPERATIONS.



 



   Section 1106 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



   Sections 1106.1 through 1106.1.2 of the IFC are hereby adopted.



 



 



SEC. 57.1107.  GROUP A PUBLIC ADDRESS SYSTEM.



 



   Section 1107 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.1113.  EXISTING GROUP R-1 AND R-2 OCCUPANCIES [SFM].



 



   Section 1113 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.1114.  EXISTING HIGH-RISE BUILDINGS [SFM].



 



   Section 1114 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.1115.  EXISTING GROUP I OCCUPANCIES [SFM].



 



   Section 1115 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.1116.  EXISTING GROUP L OCCUPANCIES [SFM].



 



   Section 1116 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



[CHAPTERS 12 - 19 RESERVED]



 



 



SEC. 57.2001.  GENERAL.



 



   Chapter 20 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted by
reference with the following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.2001.2.1.  STANDARD.



 



   Any activity pertaining to airports, heliports and aircraft fuel
servicing not specifically regulated by this chapter shall comply with NFPA
407.



 



 



SEC. 57.2001.3.1.  PERMITS REQUIRED.



 



   A valid permit from the Department is required, in accordance with
Section 57.105.6 of this article, when a building or premises is used as an
aircraft fueling station, private airport, or heliport.  Further, a valid
permit and general approval is required, in accordance with Sections
57.105.6, 57.105.7 and 57.119 of this article, for an aircraft fuel servicing
tank vehicle designed and operated for the purpose of fueling aircraft on the
grounds of an airport or heliport.



 



 



SEC. 57.2002.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   Section 2002 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.2003.  GENERAL PRECAUTIONS.



 



   Section 2003 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.2003.1.1.  WELDING AND CUTTING OPERATIONS.



 



   Whenever welding and cutting operations are conducted on an airport or
in an aircraft factory or hangar, a Special Permit in accordance with Section
57.105.8 shall be obtained from the Chief and shall comply with the
requirements of Chapter 35.



 



 



SEC. 57.2003.6.1.  COMBUSTIBLE STORAGE.



 



   No person shall store combustible materials, flammable liquids,
flammable or liquefied compressed gas cylinders (other than fire protection
equipment) or other hazardous materials in an aircraft factory or hangar,
except in Hazardous Materials storage rooms or as otherwise permitted by this
article.



 



 



SEC. 57.2003.8.  DRIP PANS.



 



   Every aircraft factory and hangar shall be equipped and maintained with
metal drip pans under the engines of all aircraft stored therein.



 



 



SEC. 57.2003.9.  PESTICIDES.



 



   No person shall store, mix or transport a pesticide or insecticide at
any airport except in connection with the application of such pesticide or
insecticide within the limits of airport facilities, or when such pesticide
or insecticide constitutes air freight and is stored and transported in
conformance with all applicable State and Federal regulations.



 



 



SEC. 57.2004.  AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE.



 



   Section 2004 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.2004.8.  AIRCRAFT FUEL SYSTEM MAINTENANCE.



 



   Maintenance of aircraft fuel systems shall comply with Sections
57.2004.8.1 through 57.2004.8.6.



 



 



SEC. 57.2004.8.1.  FUEL TANK ATMOSPHERE.



 



   Any person conducting aircraft servicing, maintenance, or testing of
the fuel system using the air ventilation procedures, shall reduce the fuel
tank atmosphere to below 20% of the lower flammable limit of the fuel
vapors.  Air ventilation, as used herein, means to pass undiluted air (air
not containing flammable vapors) through an aircraft fuel tank to render the
atmosphere of the tank below the lower flammable limit of the fuel vapors
involved.  Before any inspection or work is performed, tests by a qualified
person shall be conducted to determine that the presence of flammable vapors
in or around the fuel tank does not constitute a fire or explosion hazard. 
This condition shall be maintained throughout the period of inspection or
work.



 



 



SEC. 57.2004.8.2.  OPEN FLAME.



 



   All open flame and spark producing devices within flammable vapor areas
shall be shut down and shall not be operated while air ventilation is
occurring.



 



 



SEC. 57.2004.8.3.  ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT.



 



   Electrical equipment used in the flammable vapor areas shall be
approved for use in Class I, Group D, Division 1 Hazardous Locations, as
defined in Chapter 9 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code (Electrical Code).



 



 



SEC. 57.2004.8.4.  GROUNDING AND BONDING.



 



   To guard against static spark hazard, exhaust equipment and the
aircraft to be ventilated shall be electrically bonded and adequately
grounded.  If ducting is used, a static bonding wire shall be connected from
each exhaust hose nozzle to the aircraft wing before opening the fuel tank.



 



 



SEC. 57.2004.8.5.  ELECTRICAL CIRCUITS.



 



   Aircraft electrical circuits which are in flammable vapor areas shall
be de-energized.



 



 



SEC. 57.2004.8.6.  WARNING SIGNS.



 



   Suitable warning signs shall be placed in conspicuous locations around
the aircraft to indicate that tank ventilation is in progress.



 



 



SEC. 57.2005.  PORTABLE FIRE EXTINGUISHERS.



 



   Section 2005 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.2006.  AIRCRAFT FUELING.



 



   Section 2006 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.2007.  HELISTOPS AND HELIPORTS.



 



   Section 2007 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.2101.  GENERAL.



 



   Chapter 21 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted in its
entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.2102.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   Section 2102 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.2103.  CLASSIFICATIONS.



 



   Section 2103 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.2104.  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.



 



   Section 2104 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.2105.  OPERATING REQUIREMENTS.



 



   Section 2105 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.2106.  SPOTTING AND PRETREATING.



 



   Section 2106 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.2107.  DRY CLEANING SYSTEMS.



 



   Section 2107 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.2108.  FIRE PROTECTION.



 



   Section 2108 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.2201.  GENERAL.



 



   Chapter 22 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted by
reference with the following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.2202.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   Section 2202 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.2203.  PRECAUTIONS.



 



   Section 2203 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.2203.2.1.  HOUSEKEEPING AND MAINTENANCE.



 



   No person shall permit the accumulation of any flammable or explosive
dust in quantities sufficient to create a fire or explosion hazard on floors,
walls, ledges, or other exposed building structural members, piping, conduit,
electrical equipment, or on the roof of any building on which dust may
settle.  Metallic dust shall be stored in tightly covered metal containers
in a cool, dry place.



 



 



SEC. 57.2203.2.2.  DUST-TIGHT ENCLOSURES.



 



   All dust producing or dust agitating machinery, such as grinding mills
and separators, and all elevators, elevator legs, spouts, hoppers, and other
conveyors shall be provided with casings or enclosures maintained as nearly
dust-tight as possible.



 



 



SEC. 57.2203.3.  DUST COLLECTION SYSTEMS FOR ROOMS OR BUILDINGS.



 



   Every plant, factory, workshop, or other premises in which dust is
produced, or is a by-product, in such quantities as to create a hazard, shall
be equipped with an approved pneumatic or mechanical dust collection system
designed, maintained, and operated to keep all hazardous accumulations of
dust from such premises, including all enclosed and inaccessible areas, and
spaces.



 



 



SEC. 57.2204.  EXPLOSION PROTECTION.



 



   Section 2204 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.2301.  GENERAL.



 



   Chapter 23 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted by
reference with the following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.2302.  DEFINITIONS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Section 2302 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted in its
entirety, as amended by the California Building Standards Commission,
effective July 1, 2018, and as thereafter amended from time to time.



 



 



SEC. 57.2303.  LOCATION OF DISPENSING DEVICES.



 



   Section 2303 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.2304.  DISPENSING OPERATIONS.



 



   Section 2304 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.2305.  OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS.



 



   Section 2305 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.2305.8.  TRANSFER BETWEEN TANKS.



 



   Transfer of Class I or II liquids from one tank to another shall be in
accordance with methods approved by the Chief and shall only be done using
approved transfer apparatus and equipment.



 



 



SEC. 57.2306.  FLAMMABLE AND COMBUSTIBLE LIQUID MOTOR FUEL-DISPENSING
FACILITIES.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Section 2306 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted in its
entirety, as amended by the California Building Standards Commission,
effective July 1, 2018, and as thereafter amended from time to time.



 



 



SEC. 57.2307.  LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS MOTOR FUEL-DISPENSING FACILITIES.



 



   Section 2307 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.2307.9.  FILLING OF MOBILE FUEL TANKS.



 



   Mobile fuel tanks shall be filled only at an auto fueling station
having a valid permit issued by the Chief.  Mobile fuel tanks shall be
filled only by the permittee or persons instructed in methods of proper use
and operation and who are qualified to use liquefied flammable gas dispensing
apparatus.  Each qualified operator shall be required to carry on his person
an identification card issued by the permittee verifying his competence.



 



   EXCEPTION:  The transfer of liquefied flammable gas from a tank
vehicle into mobile fuel tanks of motor vehicles or equipment may be
performed under permit from the Department pursuant to Chapter 1, Sections
57.105.6 and 57.105.7, provided:



 



   1.   The transfer operation is not performed where the public is
invited or where there is unusual exposure to life and property.



 



   2.   The tank vehicles are approved by the Chief.



 



 



SEC. 57.2308.  COMPRESSED NATURAL GAS MOTOR FUEL-DISPENSING FACILITIES.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Section 2308 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted in its
entirety, as amended by the California Building Standards Commission,
effective July 1, 2018, and as thereafter amended from time to time.



 



 



SEC. 57.2309.  HYDROGEN MOTOR FUEL-DISPENSING AND GENERATION FACILITIES.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Section 2309 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted in its
entirety, as amended by the California Building Standards Commission,
effective July 1, 2018, and as thereafter amended from time to time.



 



 



SEC. 57.2310.  MARINE MOTOR FUEL-DISPENSING FACILITIES.



 



   Section 2310 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.2310.6.1.1.  STANDPIPES REQUIRED INTERVALS.



 



   Approved standpipes and hoses shall be provided and located in
weather-resistant cabinets at every marine service station, and not to exceed
200-foot intervals on other piers and wharves.  Hose stations shall provide
protection to all portions of docks, piers, wharves or floating craft.



 



 



SEC. 57.2311.  REPAIR GARAGES.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Section 2311 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted in its
entirety, as amended by the California Building Standards Commission,
effective July 1, 2018, and as thereafter amended from time to time.



 



 



SEC. 57.2401.  GENERAL.



 



   Chapter 24 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted by
reference with the following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.2401.3.1.  SPECIAL PERMIT.



 



   Temporary electrostatic spraying and powder coating locations which are
not required to have a permit under Section 57.105.7 shall be regulated under
special permit from the Chief pursuant to Section 57.105.8 of this article.



 



 



SEC. 57.2402.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   Section 2402 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.2403.  PROTECTION OF OPERATIONS.



 



   Section 2403 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.2403.3.5.3.  CLEANING SOLVENTS.



 



   The use of flammable solvents for cleaning operations is prohibited. 
Solvents for cleaning operations shall have flash points above 100°F.  All
cleaning operations inside the spray booth shall be conducted with the
ventilation system in operation.



 



 



SEC. 57.2403.3.7.  HANDLING OF CLASS I, II AND IIIA LIQUIDS.



 



   Original closed containers, approved portable tanks, safety cans, or
properly arranged and constructed piping systems shall be used for bringing
Class I, II and IIIA liquids into the spray area.  Open or glass containers
are prohibited.



 



 



SEC. 57.2403.4.5.  REPAIR.



 



   No person shall make any alterations or repairs thereon or thereto, nor
permit them to be made, before any such rooms, booths or tunnels and all
equipment, ducts and pipes in connection therewith have been thoroughly
cleaned of residue and made gas and vapor free.



 



 



SEC. 57.2404.  SPRAY FINISHING.



 



   Section 2404 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.2404.3.2.3.1.  FLOOR COVERING.



 



   All combustible flooring under and adjacent to spray booths or spray
tunnels shall be protected with a covering of noncombustible material so
installed as to prevent the combustible flooring from coming into contact
with the flammable liquids used in the spraying process, and of such a nature
as to facilitate the safe cleaning and removal of residues.



 



 



SEC. 57.2404.6.3.  HEATING SPRAY BOOTHS AND SPRAY ROOMS.



 



   No heating device shall be located, installed, maintained or used in
any spray room.  For comfort of persons working within the spray room or
spray booth, heating appliances of indirect type may be installed on the
outside of such booths or rooms for the purpose of introducing heat inside
thereof, provided the temperature does not exceed 120°F at the warm air
inlet to the booth or tunnel and that location and arrangement of the heating
appliance and the method of heat introduction into said room is first
approved.



 



 



SEC. 57.2404.7.9.  EXHAUST DUCTS.



 



   Exhaust ducts shall be in accordance with Sections 57.2404.7.9.1
through 57.2404.7.9.6.



 



 



SEC. 57.2404.7.9.1.  GAUGE OF METAL.



 



   Every duct or pipe shall be constructed of galvanized metal sheets in
accordance with the provisions of Table 57.2404.7.9.1.



 



TABLE 57.2404.7.9.1
SPRAY EXHAUST DUCTS – GAUGE OF METAL



 



 


Duct Cross-Sectional Dimension in Inches

 
Gauge of Duct Metal


Up to 8
 
24


Over 8 inches to 18
 
22


Over 18 inches to 30
 
20


Over 30
 
18



 



 



SEC. 57.2404.7.9.2.  SEAMS.



 



   All seams in any duct or pipe shall be made tight by crimping or other
equally efficient manner without the use of solder or combustible materials,
and all sections shall be securely joined.



 



 



SEC. 57.2404.7.9.3.  INSULATING.



 



   Exhaust ducts shall have a clearance from unprotected combustible
construction or other combustible material of not less than 18 inches.  This
distance may be reduced if protection is provided for all combustible
surfaces within 18 inches according to the following schedule:



 



   1.   28 gauge sheet metal on 1/4 inch insulating millboard 12 inches.



 



   2.   28 gauge sheet metal on 1/8 inch insulating millboard spaced
out one inch on noncombustible spacers 9 inches.



 



   3.   22 gauge sheet metal on 1 inch rockwool bats reinforced with
wire mesh or the equivalent 3 inches.



 



   4.   Any other approved material of equal of greater fire-resistance.



 



 



SEC. 57.2404.7.9.4.  SEPARATION FROM COMBUSTIBLE MATERIAL.



 



   Ducts or pipes may be separated from combustible material by a
ventilated collar which provides a clear air space equal to one-half the
diameter of the duct, but in no event shall such collar provide less than 3
inch air space, and such collar shall extend not less than 12 inches above
and below such combustible material.



 



 



SEC. 57.2404.7.9.5.  BRANCH DUCTS.



 



   Every branch duct or pipe shall be connected to the main duct or pipe
at an angle not exceeding 45 degrees measured from the centerline of the main
duct or pipe.  Every bend, turn or elbow in any duct or pipe shall be
constructed so as not to reduce the cross sectional area of the duct or
pipe.  Every change in cross section of any such duct or pipe shall be by
means of a transition fitting having a slope or taper of not more than 1 inch
for each 4 inches in length of the said duct or pipe.



 



 



SEC. 57.2404.7.9.6.  DUCT VELOCITY.



 



   Exhaust ducts shall be designed to provide sufficient air transport
velocity to prevent the over-spray from settling in the duct.



 



 



SEC. 57.2405.  DIPPING OPERATIONS.



 



   Section 2405 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.2405.2.1.  LOCATION.



 



   No dip tank shall be located, installed, maintained, or used in any
building or room except in an approved location.  Tanks in excess of 500
gallons shall not be located in or above basements.



 



 



SEC. 57.2405.12.  PROTECTION OF FLOORS.



 



   Dip tanks exceeding 20-gallon capacity shall not be used or maintained
on any combustible floor.  Dip tanks of 20-gallon capacity or less shall not
be used or maintained on combustible flooring unless the floor under such
tanks, and for a distance of 5 feet on all sides of dip tanks, drain boards,
and objects which have been dipped is protected with a covering of
noncombustible material in such a manner as to prevent the floor from
becoming saturated or covered with flammable or combustible liquids used in
the dipping process.



 



 



SEC. 57.2406.  POWER COATING.



 



   Section 2406 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.2407.  ELECTROSTATIC APPARATUS.



 



   Section 2407 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.2408.  ORGANIC PEROXIDES AND DUAL-COMPONENT COATINGS.



 



   Section 2408 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.2409.  INDOOR MANUFACTURING OF REINFORCED PLASTICS.



 



   Section 2409 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.2410.  FLOOR SURFACING AND FINISHING OPERATIONS.



 



   Section 2410 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.2501.  GENERAL.



 



   Chapter 25 of the 2015 edition of the International Fire Code (IFC) is
adopted by reference.



 



 



SEC. 57.2601.  GENERAL.



 



   Chapter 26 of the 2015 edition of the International Fire Code (IFC) is
adopted by reference with the following exceptions, modifications, and
additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.2603.  FIRE SAFETY REQUIREMENTS.



 



 



SEC. 57.2603.3.6.  WARNING AGENT.



 



   Fumigation or pest-control operations involving any structure, ship, or
tarpaulin-covered area in which a chemical is used which does not give
adequate warning of dangerous and lethal concentrations, shall require the
use of Chloropicrin in conjunction with such operations.  The Chloropicrin
shall be applied at the rate of one ounce per 15,000 cubic feet of space or
portion thereof.  The Chloropicrin shall be so used as to permit penetration
to all spaces under fumigation.  This shall be done at least 30 minutes
prior to application of the fumigant.  A California licensed fumigator shall
supervise all fumigation operations, and shall determine that all areas under
fumigation have been so permeated by Chloropicrin as to render them humanly
untenable before leaving the premises.



 



 



SEC. 57.2603.3.7.  FIRE DEPARTMENT NOTIFICATION.



 



   At least 24 hours prior to conducting any fumigation, written notice
shall be given to the Los Angeles Fire Department Metropolitan Fire
Communications, of the date, place, and name of fumigator, extent or duration
of fumigation, name of fumigant, and sealing method used, except that
notification is not required where fumigation is to be done in approved
chambers, nor in the case of tarpaulin fumigation of structures or trees.



 



 



SEC. 57.2701.  GENERAL.



 



   Chapter 27 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted in its
entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.2702.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   Section 2702 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.2703.  GENERAL SAFETY PROVISIONS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Section 2703 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted in its
entirety, as amended by the California Building Standards Commission,
effective July 1, 2018, and as thereafter amended from time to time.



 



 



SEC. 57.2704.  STORAGE.



 



   Section 2704 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.2705.  USE AND HANDLING.



 



   Section 2705 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.2801.  GENERAL.



 



   Chapter 28 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted by
reference with the following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.2802.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   Section 2802 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.2803.  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.



 



   Section 2803 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.2803.8.  YARD STORAGE.



 



   Lumber shall not be stored within 10 feet of any building on adjacent
property or within 15 feet of an unprotected opening in any building.



 



 



SEC. 57.2804.  FIRE PROTECTION.



 



   Section 2804 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.2805.  PLYWOOD, VENEER AND COMPOSITE BOARD MILLS.



 



   Section 2805 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.2806.  LOG STORAGE AREAS.



 



   Section 2806 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.2807.  STORAGE OF WOOD CHIPS AND HOGGED MATERIAL ASSOCIATED WITH
TIMBER AND LUMBER PRODUCTION FACILITIES.



 



   Section 2807 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.2808.  STORAGE AND PROCESSING OF WOOD CHIPS, HOGGED MATERIAL, FINES,
COMPOST AND RAW PRODUCT ASSOCIATED WITH YARD WASTE AND RECYCLING FACILITIES.



 



   Section 2808 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.2809.  EXTERIOR STORAGE OF FINISHED LUMBER PRODUCTS.



 



   Section 2809 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.2901.  GENERAL.



 



   Chapter 29 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted in its
entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.2902.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   Section 2902 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.2903.  GENERAL PRECAUTIONS.



 



   Section 2903 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.2904.  ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT AND PROTECTION.



 



   Section 2904 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.2905.  PROCESS STRUCTURES.



 



   Section 2905 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.2906.  PROCESS MILLS AND KETTLES.



 



   Section 2906 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.2907.  PROCESS PIPING.



 



   Section 2907 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.2908.  RAW MATERIALS IN PROCESS AREAS.



 



   Section 2908 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.2909.  RAW MATERIALS AND FINISHED PRODUCTS.



 



   Section 2909 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3001.  GENERAL.



 



   Chapter 30 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted in its
entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3002.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   Section 3002 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3003.  LOCATION.



 



   Section 3003 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3004.  FUEL PIPING.



 



   Section 3004 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3005.  INTERLOCKS.



 



   Section 3005 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3006.  FIRE PROTECTION.



 



   Section 3006 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3007.  OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.



 



   Section 3007 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3101.  GENERAL.



 



   Chapter 31 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted by
reference with the following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.3102.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   Section 3102 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3103.  TEMPORARY TENTS AND MEMBRANE STRUCTURES.



 



   Section 3103 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3104.  TEMPORARY AND PERMANENT TENTS AND MEMBRANE STRUCTURES.



 



   Section 3104 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.3104.14.1.  RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER MANAGER.



 



   The owner or manager of any tent or membrane structure shall be
responsible for limiting the occupant load in that tent or membrane structure
in accordance with Section 57.3104.14.



 



 



SEC. 57.3104.20.3.  FIRE SAFETY OFFICER.



 



   A Fire Safety Officer shall be provided in accordance with Section
57.104.18 of this article and the following conditions:



 



   1.   Occupant loads of 500 or more shall require a minimum of one
Fire Safety Officer.



 



   2.   Each additional 1,000 occupants, or fraction thereof, shall
require one additional Fire Safety Officer.



 



   3.   Filming inside tents requires Fire Safety Officers.



 



   EXCEPTION:  The Chief may modify or approve an alternate method of
compliance with this section if minimum life safety requirements are met.



 



 



SEC. 57.3105.  TEMPORARY STAGE CANOPIES.



 



   Section 3105 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3201.  GENERAL.



 



   Chapter 32 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted in its
entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3202.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   Section 3202 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3203.  COMMODITY CLASSIFICATION.



 



   Section 3203 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3204.  DESIGNATION OF HIGH-PILED STORAGE AREAS.



 



   Section 3204 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3205.  HOUSEKEEPING AND MAINTENANCE.



 



   Section 3205 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3206.  GENERAL FIRE PROTECTION AND LIFE SAFETY FEATURES.



 



   Section 3206 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3207.  SOLID-PILED AND SHELF STORAGE.



 



   Section 3207 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3208.  RACK STORAGE.



 



   Section 3208 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3209.  AUTOMATED STORAGE.



 



   Section 3209 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3210.  SPECIALTY STORAGE.



 



   Section 3210 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3301.  GENERAL.



 



   Chapter 33 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted in its
entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3302.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   Section 3302 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3303.  TEMPORARY HEATING EQUIPMENT.



 



   Section 3303 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3304.  PRECAUTIONS AGAINST FIRE.



 



   Section 3304 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3305.  FLAMMABLE AND COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS.



 



   Section 3305 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3306.  FLAMMABLE GASES.



 



   Section 3306 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3307.  EXPLOSIVE MATERIALS.



 



   Section 3307 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3308.  OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR FIRE PROTECTION.



 



   Section 3308 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3309.  FIRE REPORTING.



 



   Section 3309 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3310.  ACCESS FOR FIRE FIGHTING.



 



   Section 3310 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3311.  MEANS OF EGRESS.



 



   Section 3311 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3312.  WATER SUPPLY FOR FIRE PROTECTION.



 



   Section 3312 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3313.  STANDPIPES.



 



   Section 3313 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3314.  AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEM.



 



   Section 3314 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3315.  PORTABLE FIRE EXTINGUISHERS.



 



   Section 3315 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3316.  MOTORIZED CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT.



 



   Section 3316 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3317.  SAFEGUARDING ROOFING OPERATIONS.



 



   Section 3317 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3401.  GENERAL.



 



   Chapter 34 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted in its
entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3402.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   Section 3402 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3403.  TIRE REBUILDING.



 



   Section 3403 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3404.  PRECAUTIONS AGAINST FIRE.



 



   Section 3404 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3405.  OUTDOOR STORAGE.



 



   Section 3405 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3406.  FIRE DEPARTMENT ACCESS.



 



   Section 3406 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3407.  FENCING.



 



   Section 3407 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3408.  FIRE PROTECTION.



 



   Section 3408 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3409.  INDOOR STORAGE ARRANGEMENT.



 



   Section 3409 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3501.  GENERAL.



 



   Chapter 35 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted by
reference with the following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.3501.2.  PERMITS.



 



   A Special Permit for welding or hot work shall be required as set forth
in Section 57.105.8.



 



 



SEC. 57.3502.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   Section 3502 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3503.  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.



 



   Section 3503 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3504.  FIRE SAFETY REQUIREMENTS.



 



   Section 3504 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3505.  GAS WELDING AND CUTTING.



 



   Section 3505 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3506.  ELECTRIC ARC HOT WORK.



 



   Section 3506 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3507.  CALCIUM CARBIDE SYSTEMS.



 



   Section 3507 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3508.  ACETYLENE GENERATORS.



 



   Section 3508 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3509.  PIPING MANIFOLDS AND HOSE SYSTEMS FOR FUEL GASES AND OXYGEN.



 



   Section 3509 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3510.  HOT WORK ON FLAMMABLE AND COMBUSTIBLE LIQUID STORAGE TANKS.



 



   Section 3510 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3601.  SCOPE.



 



   Chapter 36 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted in its
entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3602.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   Section 3602 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3603.  GENERAL PRECAUTIONS.



 



   Section 3603 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3604.  FIRE PROTECTION EQUIPMENT.



 



   Section 3604 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3605.  MARINE MOTOR FUEL-DISPENSING FACILITIES.



 



   Section 3605 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3701.  GENERAL.



 



   Chapter 37 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted by
reference with the following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.3702.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   Section 3702 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3703.  GENERAL PRECAUTIONS.



 



   Section 3703 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.3703.8.  AUTOMOTIVE EQUIPMENT.



 



   Trucks or automobiles, other than approved industrial trucks and
mechanical handling equipment, shall not enter any fiber storage room or
building, but may be used in connection with approved loading platforms.



 



 



SEC. 57.3704.  LOOSE FIBER STORAGE.



 



   Section 3704 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3705.  BALED STORAGE.



 



   Section 3705 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.3801.  GENERAL.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



 



SEC. 57.3801.1.  SCOPE.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Plant processing or extraction facilities shall comply with this
chapter and the California Building Code.  The extraction process includes
the act of extraction of the oils and fats by use of a solvent,
desolventizing of the raw material and production of the miscella,
distillation of the solvent from the miscella and solvent recovery.  The
use, storage, transfilling, and handling of hazardous materials in these
facilities shall comply with this chapter, other applicable provisions of
this Code and the California Building Code.



 



 



SEC. 57.3801.2.  EXISTING BUILDINGS OR FACILITIES.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Existing buildings or facilities used for the processing of plants or
where the medium of extraction or solvent is changed shall comply with this
chapter.



 



 



SEC. 57.3801.3.  PERMITS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Permits shall be required as set forth in Sections 57.105.6 and
57.105.7.



 



 



SEC. 57.3802.  DEFINITIONS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



 



SEC. 57.3802.1.  DEFINITIONS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   The following terms are defined in Chapter 2:



 



   Desolventizing



   Miscella



 



 



SEC. 57.3803.  PROCESSING AND EXTRACTION.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



 



SEC. 57.3803.1.  CONSTRUCTION.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Processing shall be located in a building complying with the California
Building Code.



 



 



SEC. 57.3803.2.  PROHIBITED OCCUPANCIES.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Extraction processes utilizing flammable gasses or flammable cryogenic
fluids shall not be located in any building containing a Group A, E, I or R
occupancy.



 



 



SEC. 57.3803.3.  LOCATION.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   The extraction equipment and extraction process utilizing hydrocarbon
solvents shall be located in a room or area dedicated to extraction.








SEC. 57.3803.4.  POST-PROCESS PURIFICATION AND WINTERIZATION.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Post-processing and winterization involving the heating or pressurizing
of the miscella to other than normal pressure or temperature shall be
approved and performed in an appliance listed for such use.  Domestic or
commercial cooking appliances shall not be used.



 



 



SEC. 57.3803.5.  INDUSTRIAL OVENS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   The use of industrial ovens shall comply with Chapter 30.



 



 



SEC. 57.3803.6.  USE OF FLAMMABLE AND COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   The use of flammable and combustible liquids for liquid extraction
processes where the liquid is boiled, distilled, or evaporated shall be
located within a hazardous exhaust fume hood, rated for exhausting flammable
vapors.  Electrical equipment used within the hazardous exhaust fume hood
shall be rated for use in flammable atmospheres.  Heating of flammable or
combustible liquids over an open flame is prohibited.



 



   EXCEPTION:  The use of a heating element not rated for flammable
atmospheres approved where documentation from the manufacture or approved
testing laboratory indicates it is rated for heating of flammable liquids.



 



 



SEC. 57.3803.7.  LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Liquefied petroleum gases (LPG) shall not be released to the atmosphere.



 



   EXCEPTION:  LPG may be released to the atmosphere in accordance with
NFPA 58 Section 7.3.



 



 



SEC. 57.3804.  SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



 



SEC. 57.3804.1.  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Systems and equipment used with the processing and extraction of oils
and products from plants shall comply with Sections 57.3804.2 through
57.3804.4, 57.5003.2, and other applicable provisions of this Code, the
California Building Code, and the California Mechanical Code.



 



 



SEC. 57.3804.2.  SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Systems or equipment used for the extraction of oils from plant
material shall be listed or approved for the specific use.  If the system
used for extraction of oils and products from plant material is not listed,
then the system shall be reviewed by a Registered Design Professional.  The
Registered Design Professional shall review and consider any information
provided by the system's designer or manufacturer.  For systems and
equipment not listed for the specific use, a technical report in accordance
with Section 57.3804.3 shall be prepared and submitted to the Fire Code
Official for review and approval.  The firm or individual preparing the
technical report shall be approved by the Fire Code Official prior to
performing the analysis.



 



 



SEC. 57.3804.3.  TECHNICAL REPORT.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   The technical report that has been reviewed and approved by the Fire
Code Official, as required by Section 57.3804.2, is required prior to the
equipment being located or installed at the facility.  The report shall be
prepared by a Registered Design Professional or other professional approved
by the Fire Code Official.



 



 



SEC. 57.3804.3.1.  REPORT CONTENT.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   The technical report shall contain all of the following:



 



   1.   Manufacturer information.



 



   2.   Preparer of record on technical report.



 



   3.   Date of review and report revision history.



 



   4.   Signature page shall include all of the following:



 



   4.1.   Author of the report.



 



   4.2.   Date of report.



 



   4.3.   Date and signature of Registered Design Professional of
record performing the design or peer review.



 



   5.   Model number of the item evaluated.  If the equipment is
provided with a serial number, the serial number shall be included for
verification at time of site inspection.



 



   6.   Methodology of the design or peer review process used to
determine minimum safety requirements.  Methodology shall consider the basis
of design, and shall include a code analysis and code path to demonstrate the
reason as to why specific code or standards are applicable or not.



 



   7.   Equipment description.  A list of every component and
sub-assembly (fittings, hose, quick disconnects, gauges, site glass, gaskets,
valves, pumps, vessels, containers, switches, etc.) of the system or
equipment, indicating the manufacturer, model number, material, and solvent
compatibility.  Manufacturer's data sheets shall be provided.



 



   8.   A general flow schematic or general process flow diagram of the
process.  Post-processing or winterization may be included in this
diagram.  All primary components of the process equipment shall be
identified and match the equipment list required in Item 7.  Operating
temperatures, pressures, and solvent state of matter shall be identified in
each primary step or component.  A piping and instrumentation diagram (PID
or PI&D) shall be provided.



 



   9.   Analysis of the vessel(s) if pressurized beyond standard
atmospheric pressure.  Analysis shall include purchased and fabricated
components.



 



   10.   Structural analysis for the frame system supporting the
equipment.



 



   11.   Process safety analysis of the extraction system, from the
introduction of raw product to the end of the extraction process.



 



   12.   Comprehensive process hazard analysis considering failure
modes and points of failure throughout the process.  The process hazard
analysis shall include a review of emergency procedure information provided
by the manufacturer of the equipment or process and not that of the facility,
building or room.



 



   13.   Review of the assembly instructions, operational and
maintenance manuals provided by the manufacturer.



 



   14.   List of references used in the analysis.



 



 



SEC. 57.3804.4.  SITE INSPECTION.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Prior to operation of the extraction equipment, where required by the
Fire Code Official, the engineer of record or approved professional, as
approved in Section 57.3805.2, shall inspect the site of the extraction
process once equipment has been installed for compliance with the technical
report and the building analysis.  The engineer of record or approved
professional shall provide a report of findings and observations of the site
inspection to the Fire Code Official prior to the approval of the extraction
process.



 



   The field inspection report authored by engineer of record shall
include the serial number of the equipment used in the process and shall
confirm the equipment installed is the same model and type of equipment
identified in the technical report.



 



 



SEC. 57.3805.  SAFETY SYSTEMS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



 



SEC. 57.3805.1.  GAS DETECTION.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   For extraction processes utilizing flammable gases as solvents, a
continuous gas detection system shall be provided.  The gas detection
threshold shall be no greater than 25 percent of the lower flammable limit
(LFL) of the materials.



 



 



SEC. 57.3805.1.1.  SYSTEM DESIGN.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   The flammable gas detection system shall be listed or approved and
shall be calibrated to the types of fuels or gases used for the extraction
process.  The gas detection system shall be designed to activate when the
level of flammable gas exceeds 25 percent of the lower flammable limit (LFL).



 



 



SEC. 57.3805.1.2.  GAS DETECTION SYSTEM COMPONENTS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Gas detection system control units shall be listed and labeled in
accordance with UL 864 or UL 2017.  Gas detectors shall be listed and
labeled in accordance with UL 2075 for use with the gases and vapors being
detected.



 



 



SEC. 57.3805.1.3.  OPERATION.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Activation of the gas detection system shall result in all the
following:



 



   1.   Initiation of distinct audible and visual alarm signals in the
extraction room.



 



   2.   Deactivation of all heating systems located in the extraction
room.



 



   3.   Activation of the mechanical ventilation system, where the
system is interlocked with gas detection.



 



 



SEC. 57.3805.1.4.  FAILURE OF THE GAS DETECTION SYSTEM.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Failure of the gas detection system shall result in the deactivation of
the heating system, activation of the mechanical ventilation system where the
system is interlocked with the gas detection system and cause a trouble
signal to sound in an approved location.



 



 



SEC. 57.3805.1.5.  INTERLOCKS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   All electrical components within the extraction room shall be
interlocked with the gas detection system.  Activation of the gas detection
system shall disable all light switches and electrical outlets.



 



 



SEC. 57.3805.2.  EMERGENCY SHUTOFF.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Extraction processes utilizing gaseous hydrocarbon-based solvents shall
be provided with emergency shutoff systems in accordance with Section
57.5803.1.3.



 



 



[CHAPTERS 39 - 46 RESERVED]



 



 



   A new Chapter 47 is created entitled:  OCCUPANCY BASED REQUIREMENTS.



 



 



SEC. 57.4701.  ASSEMBLAGE OCCUPANCIES.



 



 



SEC. 57.4701.1.  GENERAL.



 



   The provisions of this section and applicable provisions of Titles 19
and 24, C.C.R. shall regulate fire and life safety requirements for assembly
occupancies.  Such provisions apply to all assembly occupancies requiring a
fire permit and define who shall be responsible for providing the fire and
life safety within.  The provisions recognize that life safety consists of
more than exit requirements alone and address the proper use of decorative
materials, open flame, flammable liquids and gases, and the operation of
motion picture theatres and projection rooms.  The provisions do not address
building construction features that are regulated by Chapter 9 of the Los
Angeles Municipal Code (Building Code).



 



 



SEC. 57.4701.2.  PERMIT REQUIRED.



 



   When a building or portion of a building is used for a place of
assemblage, a valid permit from the Chief is required in accordance with
Section 57.105.6 of this article.



 



 



SEC. 57.4701.3.  MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY.



 



   The owner, manager, or person in control of any assembly occupancy
shall be responsible for compliance with the fire and life safety provisions
of this chapter.  The person in control of any assembly occupancy shall,
upon request of the Chief provide the name, address, and telephone number of
the owner, manager, representative, or lessee.  Every place of assemblage
shall be under the constant supervision of the owner, manager, or a person in
control who shall be on the premises during the time that the occupancy is
open to the public.



 



 



SEC. 57.4701.4.  EXIT & ACCESS FACILITIES.



 



   The person in control of any assembly occupancy shall provide and
maintain exits, seating arrangements, exit signs, occupant loads, and access
facilities in accordance with Chapter 10 of this article.



 



 



SEC. 57.4701.4.1.  OBSTRUCTION OF EXIT FACILITIES.



 



   In addition to the exiting requirements found in Chapter 10, assemblage
occupancies shall also comply with Sections 57.4701.4.1.1 through
57.4701.4.1.4.



 



 



SEC. 57.4701.4.1.1.  OBSTRUCTION OF EXITS.



 



   No person shall maintain or place any chair, table, stool sofa, settee,
booth, easel, cameras, microphone, cable, false front, rope barrier, or other
obstruction except a breakaway rope necessary to control and maintain order
in any exit of any assembly occupancy while the same is open for business or
while there are persons other than employees therein.



 



 



SEC. 57.4701.4.1.2.  OBSTRUCTION OF LOBBIES AND FOYERS.



 



   No person shall maintain or place any chair, table, stool sofa, settee,
booth, easel, cameras, microphone, cable, false front, rope barrier, or other
obstruction which will reduce the required exit width in any lobby, foyer,
mezzanine, or other public area of any assembly occupancy while the same is
open for business or while there are persons other than employees therein,
except by written permission by the Chief.



 



 



SEC. 57.4701.4.1.3.  OBSTRUCTION OF EXITS BY PERSONS.



 



   No person shall block, impede, or obstruct any exit to a public way or
any access to a building, structure or premises, in such manner as to prevent
or interfere with the use of such exits or access by any person who is
exiting or entering said occupied assembly occupancy.



 



 



SEC. 57.4701.4.1.4.  WAITING SPACES.



 



   In theaters, restaurants, and similar places of assemblage where
persons are admitted to the occupancy at times when seats are not available
for them and are allowed to wait in a lobby or similar space until seats are
available, such use of the lobby or similar space shall not encroach upon the
required clear width of exits.  Such waiting shall be restricted to areas
other than the required exit way.  Maximum occupant load for waiting spaces
shall be one person for each 5 square feet of waiting space.  Exits shall be
provided in addition to the exits specified for the main assembly area and
shall conform in arrangement with Chapter 10 of this article.



 



 



SEC. 57.4701.5.  OPEN FLAME.



 



   No person shall use an open flame upon any stage or platform, inside
any dressing room, or within the public area of any assembly occupancy,
except by authority of a Special Permit from the Chief pursuant to Section
57.105.8 of this article.



 



   EXCEPTIONS:



 



   1.   Approved heating appliances.



 



   2.   Smoking in any area where smoking is permitted.



 



   3.   The use of candles as part of a religious ritual, ceremony, or
service, provided that such candles are located in a portion of a room,
building, or premises not normally occupied by any persons except those
charged with ministration duties, and provided that such candles are safely
supported in a manner approved by the Chief.



 



 



SEC. 57.4701.6.  LIVE THEATRICAL PRODUCTIONS.



 



   When the occupant load is 100 or more, no person shall operate or
maintain any live theatrical production utilizing scenery and/or settings,
lighting, or other stage dressing or paraphernalia, in any motion picture
theater, theater or little theater except by authority of a permit in
accordance with Section 57.105.7 of this article.



 



 



SEC. 57.4701.7.  UNVENTED PORTABLE HEATERS.



 



   No person shall operate, maintain, or allow to exist any unvented
portable fuel-burning heater in any assembly occupancy except by Special
Permit from the Chief pursuant to Section 57.105.8 of this article.



 



 



SEC. 57.4701.8.  COMPRESSED GASES AND LIQUEFIED FLAMMABLE GASES.



 



   Compressed gases or liquefied gases shall comply with Sections
57.4701.8.1 through 57.4701.8.3.



 



 



SEC. 57.4701.8.1.  SPECIAL PERMIT REQUIRED.



 



   No person shall, without a Special Permit from the Chief, pursuant to
Section 57.105.8 of this article, use or store compressed gases or liquefied
flammable gases within any assembly occupancy for demonstrations,
exhibitions, trade shows, lectures or any other purpose which, in the opinion
of the Chief, would create a fire, life, or panic hazard.



 



 



SEC. 57.4701.8.1.1.  CONDITIONS.



 



   Special Permits from the Chief, pursuant to Section 57.105.8 of this
article, shall specify the following conditions for the proper use or display
of compressed gases or liquefied flammable gases within any assembly
occupancy:



 



   1.   Cylinders and their appurtenances shall be designed,
fabricated, tested, and maintained in accordance with Chapter 53 and Chapter
61 of this article.



 



   2.   Cylinders shall be stored in a place and manner approved by the
Chief.  The use or display of compressed gases or liquefied flammable gases
shall not exceed 30 consecutive days.



 



   3.   Liquefied flammable gas cylinders shall be installed in an
upright position and be secured to prevent movement.



 



   4.   Cylinders shall not be exposed to any heat above ambient
temperature.



 



   5.   Cylinders equipped with protective caps shall, except when in
use, have the caps in place.



 



   6.   Cylinder valves shall be closed at any time the demand for gas
ceases so that pressure will not be maintained on any attached equipment.



 



   7.   The amount of gas and number of cylinders shall not exceed the
amount and number approved by the Chief for a specific location.



 



   8.   Not less than one 10B:C portable fire extinguisher shall be
provided and accessible at each location where open flame is used.



 



   9.   Liquefied flammable gas cylinders shall not exceed 5.76 gallons
water capacity in size.



 



   10.   Liquefied flammable gas cylinders shall not be filled with
more than 50% of nominal charging capacity.



 



   11.   The total amount of liquefied flammable gas cylinders on the
premises shall not exceed 60 gallons at any time.



 



   12.   Liquefied flammable gas used for the preparation or warming of
food for retail sale is prohibited.



 



 



SEC. 57.4701.8.2.  LIQUEFIED FLAMMABLE GASES.



 



   Liquefied flammable gas used for space heating shall be supplied from a
fuel cylinder located outside of and at least 10 feet from any assembly
occupancy.  An approved heater and piping system shall be used.  Flexible
hose in length up to 36 inches may be used if it is designed for a minimum
bursting pressure of 1,750 PSIG, and such hose shall be marked with
“L.P.-GAS” or “LPG” labeling.



 



 



SEC. 57.4701.8.3.  REGULATING DEVICES.



 



   Cylinder pressure regulating devices shall be located adjacent to the
cylinder.  Cylinders and regulating devices shall be located and protected
to prevent physical damage.



 



 



SEC. 57.4701.9.  STANDING CONCERT ATTENDANCE INSIDE STRUCTURES.



 



   No person shall conduct, operate, maintain or allow standing concert
attendance inside a structure.



 



   EXCEPTION:  Public assembly occupancies with occupant loads below
1,000 may utilize standing concert attendance under the provisions of a
Special Permit from the Chief pursuant to Section 57.105.8 of this article. 
Such permit shall be issued only if it is demonstrated to the satisfaction of
the Chief that the physical layout of the event and the proposed security
measured are adequate to insure that the audience will neither rush the
stage, nor gather at the stage in such a manner as to create a dangerous
level of crowd density.  In evaluating the adequacy of such layout and
security, the Chief shall consider the anticipated size, volatility, and
behavior of the audience as demonstrated by the past history of like
audiences.



 



 



SEC. 57.4701.10.  STANDING CONCERT ATTENDANCE NOT IN STRUCTURES.



 



   No person shall conduct, operate, maintain or allow standing concert
attendance at a public assemblage not in a structure except by authority of a
Special Permit from the Chief pursuant to Section 57.105.8 of this article. 
Such permit shall be issued only if it is demonstrated to the satisfaction of
the Chief that the physical layout of the event and the proposed security
measures are adequate to insure that the audience will neither rush the
stage, nor gather at the stage in such a manner as to create a dangerous
level of crowd density.  In evaluating the adequacy of such layout and
security, the Chief shall consider the anticipated size, volatility, and
behavior of the audience as demonstrated by the past history of like
audiences.



 



 



SEC. 57.4702.  DAY CARE AND EDUCATIONAL OCCUPANCIES.



 



 



SEC. 57.4702.1.  PERMIT REQUIRED.



 



   A valid permit in accordance with Section 57.105.6 of this article is
required when a building or portion of a building is used as a day care or
educational occupancy.



 



 



SEC. 57.4702.2.  MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY.



 



   The owner, manager, or person in control of any private day care or
educational occupancy shall be responsible for providing and controlling the
fire and life safety provisions of this section.  The person in control of
any private day care or educational occupancy shall, upon request of the
Department, furnish the name, address, and telephone number of the owner,
manager, representative, or lessee.  Every private day care or educational
occupancy shall be under the constant supervision of the owner, manager, or
person in control.  Either the owner, manager, or person in control shall be
on the premises of the occupancy during the hours the facility is open for
educational or day care purposes.



 



 



SEC. 57.4702.3.  SPACE HEATING APPLIANCE LOCATION.



 



   Any fuel burning heating appliance in day care or educational
occupancies shall not be located closer than 10 feet from any required exit
where only one exit is provided.  Space heating appliances shall be properly
vented in accordance with Chapter 9 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code
(Mechanical Code) and applicable provisions of Part 4, Title 24, C.C.R.  Any
heater located in an area occupied by children shall have protective features
incorporated into its design or a protective guard, screen, or other means to
eliminate accidental contact with the heating appliance.



 



 



SEC. 57.4702.4.  CLASSROOM AISLES AND SEATS.



 



   A building or portion of a building used for educational purposes shall
provide seating arrangements and aisles leading to the required exits as
specified in Title 19, C.C.R.  This provision shall apply to every
elementary and secondary school, high school, and every State-owned or
State-occupied community college, college, and university.



 



 



SEC. 57.4702.4.1.  NOT REGULATED BY TITLE 19, C.C.R.



 



   All educational occupancies not regulated by Title 19, C.C.R.,
including privately owned vocational or trade schools, colleges, universities
and educational facilities provided by firms or companies for employees,
shall adhere to the following seating requirements:



 



   1.   Aisles:  Aisles adjacent to rows of seats shall be not less
than 22 inches in width.  The width of the aisle on the corridor side of the
room adjacent to the exit door and leading from the front to the rear of the
room shall be a minimum width of 3 feet. The aisle along the window side of
the room shall be not less than 22 inches in width if there are no exit doors
on that side of the room.  If exit doors are on each side of the room, an
aisle with a minimum width of 3 feet shall be maintained adjacent to each
exit door.



 



   2.   Seats:  In rooms having a seating capacity of 100 or more,
loose seats, folding chairs, or similar seating facilities that are not fixed
to the floor shall be bonded together in groups of not less than three nor
more than seven.  The spacing and arrangement of seats shall conform to the
requirements of Chapter 10 of this article.



 



 



SEC. 57.4702.5.  DAYCARE FACILITY FIRE CLEARANCE PRE-INSPECTION.



 



   As provided by Health and Safety Code Section 13235, a prospective
state licensee of a day care facility, as defined in Section 1596.750 of the
Health and Safety Code, may request a pre-inspection of the facility prior to
final clearance approval in connection with the issuance of such State
license.  A fee equal to, but not exceeding, the actual cost of the
pre-inspection services shall be charged for the pre-inspection of these
facilities.  Such fee shall be paid to the Department prior to the pre-
inspection by the Department.  The fee shall be established in the same
manner as provided for the establishment of fees under Section 57.114.1.1 of
this Code.



 



 



SEC. 57.4703.  INSTITUTIONAL OCCUPANCIES.



 



 



SEC. 57.4703.1.  PERMIT REQUIRED.



 



   A valid permit from the Department is required in accordance with
Section 57.105.6 of this article when a building or portion of a building is
used as an institutional occupancy.



 



 



SEC. 57.4703.2.  MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY.



 



   The owner, manager, or person in charge of any institutional occupancy
shall be responsible for providing and controlling the fire and life safety
provisions of this section.  The person in charge of any institutional
occupancy shall, upon request by the Chief, furnish the name, address, and
telephone number of the owner, manager, owner’s representative, or
lessee.  Every institutional occupancy shall be under the constant
supervision of the owner, manager, or person in charge.



 



 



SEC. 57.4703.3.  FIRE/LIFE SAFETY PROGRAM.



 



   Every institution as required by the Chief shall implement a written
and approved Fire/Life Safety Program which includes procedures for notifying
the Fire Department, procedures for the use of fire protection equipment, and
an emergency evacuation plan.



 



 



SEC. 57.4703.3.1.  EMERGENCY PLANS, PROCEDURES, AND EVACUATION SIGNS.



 



   All emergency plans, procedures, and evacuation signs shall be
submitted to the Fire Department for approval prior to implementation.  The
approved copy of the Fire/Life Safety Program shall be available for review
by the Chief.



 



 



SEC. 57.4703.3.2.  FIRE DRILLS.



 



   Fire drills shall be scheduled and performed quarterly for each shift
implementing the fire/life safety emergency procedures.  A written record
shall be kept on forms approved by the Chief of all such drills.  Records
shall give the date and time of each drill held.  Records shall be
maintained for a period of three years and be available for review by the
Chief.



 



 



SEC. 57.4703.3.3.  EVACUATION PLAN POSTED.



 



   The evacuation plan shall be posted throughout the facility and shall
include the following minimum requirements:



 



   1.   Evacuation routes, including locations of exits.



 



   2.   The location of fire alarm pull stations.



 



   3.   The location of portable fire extinguishers and other fire
protection equipment.



 



   4.   The phone number of the Fire Department.



 



   5.   Designation of outside refuge areas where guests or patients
are to assemble after evacuation of the building.



 



   6.   Assignment of a responsible person to call the Fire Department
upon notification of any fire or upon the activation of any fire protection
system.



 



 



SEC. 57.4703.3.4.  EMERGENCY PLANNING.



 



   The Fire/Life Safety Program shall be updated and approved annually. 
All personnel shall receive approved training conducted by the Department or
by a health care facility instructor who is certified in accordance with
Section 57.117 of this article. New employees shall receive such training
within 30 days of employment.



 



 



SEC. 57.4703.4.  HEATING APPLIANCES.



 



   Heating appliances in institutional occupancies shall be in accordance
with Sections 57.4703.1 through 57.4703.4.



 



 



SEC. 57.4703.4.1.  APPROVAL REQUIRED.



 



   Portable electrical heating appliances shall not be used in any
institutional occupancy without the approval of the Chief.  All gas fired
heating devices shall be connected to the gas supply by means of approved
rigid or semi-rigid piping.  All heating appliances shall be provided with
guards that will provide protection against ignition of clothing and other
combustible material.



 



 



SEC. 57.4703.4.2.  METALLIC GUARDS REQUIRED.



 



   Appliances employing open flame radiated heat shall have fixed and
substantially constructed metallic guards located not less than 10 inches
from the radiating flame, with guard members spaced not more than 2 inches
apart.



 



 



SEC. 57.4703.4.2.1.  CABINET TYPE APPLIANCES.



 



   Cabinet type appliances that are not provided with an inner combustion
chamber and an air circulating space between the combustion chamber and the
outer shell shall have fixed and substantially constructed metallic guards
located not less than 3 inches from the shell and spaced not more than 2
inches apart.



 



 



SEC. 57.4703.5.  LAMP GUARDS.



 



   All lights protruding from any wall or ceiling shall be provided with
suitable guards to prevent their accidental breakage or contact with readily
ignitable materials.



 



 



SEC. 57.4703.6.  GROUNDING SAFEGUARDS.



 



   Portable electric appliances shall not be placed closer than 5 feet to
wash basins, bath tubs, showers, or other grounded surfaces.



 



 



SEC. 57.4703.7.  FIRE CLEARANCE SAFETY INSPECTIONS.



 



   Fire Clearance Safety Inspections shall be conducted in accordance with
Sections 57.4703.7.1 and 57.4703.7.2.



 



 



SEC. 57.4703.7.1.  PRE-INSPECTION.



 



   As provided by California Health and Safety Code Section 13235, a
prospective state licensee of a community care facility, as defined in
Section 1502 of the State Health and Safety Code, or of a residential care
facility for the elderly, as defined in 1569.2 of the State Health and Safety
Code, may request a pre-inspection of the facility prior to final clearance
approval in connection with the issuance of such State license.  A fee equal
to, but not exceeding, the actual cost of the pre-inspection services shall
be charged for the pre-inspection of these facilities.  Such fee shall be
paid to the Department prior to the pre-inspection by the Department.  The
fee shall be established in the same manner as provided for the establishment
of fees under Section 57.114.1.1 of this Code.



 



 



SEC. 57.4703.7.2.  FINAL CLEARANCE.



 



   The Department shall charge and collect a fee for the final clearance
approval inspection in connection with the issuance of a State license to
operate a residential care facility housing non-ambulatory elderly persons. 
The fee shall be established in the same manner as provided for the
establishment of fees under Section 57.114.1.1 of this Code, but shall not
exceed any fee for such inspection established by the State Fire Marshal
pursuant to Section 13131.5(f) of the State Health and Safety Code.



 



 



SEC. 57.4704.  RESIDENTIAL OCCUPANCIES.



 



 



SEC. 57.4704.1.  PERMIT REQUIRED.



 



   A valid permit is required in accordance with Section 57.105.6 of this
article to operate or maintain a hotel three or more stories in height or
containing 20 or more guest rooms.



 



 



SEC. 57.4704.2.  MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY.



 



   The owner, manager, or person in charge of any residential occupancy
shall be responsible for providing and controlling the fire and life safety
provisions of this section. The person in charge of any residential occupancy
shall, upon request of the Chief, furnish the name, address, and telephone
number of the owner, manager, representative, or lessee.



 



 



SEC. 57.4704.3.  RESPONSIBLE RESIDENT REQUIRED.



 



   Responsible resident requirements shall comply with Sections
57.4704.3.1 through 57.4704.3.3.



 



 



SEC. 57.4704.3.1.  RESIDENT ON THE PREMISES.



 



   In the event an apartment house has 16 or more dwelling units or a
hotel has 20 or more guest rooms, either the owner or a responsible resident
having charge thereof shall reside on the premises.



 



 



SEC. 57.4704.3.2.  MANAGER CONTACT INFORMATION.



 



   The owner or manager of every apartment house in which there are 16 or
more dwelling units and every hotel in which there are 20 or more guest
rooms, shall, upon request of the Chief, furnish in writing both the name,
unit number, and telephone number of the current responsible resident and the
name, address, and telephone number of the owner or manager.  Such statement
shall be signed by at least two of the following: owner, manager, or
responsible resident.



 



 



SEC. 57.4704.3.3.  OWNER CONTACT INFORMATION.



 



   If the owner does not reside upon the premises of any apartment house
in which there are less than 16 dwelling units or any hotel in which there
are less than 20 guest rooms, a notice stating the name, address, and
telephone number of both the owner and the owner’s agent in charge of the
occupancy shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises.



 



 



SEC. 57.4704.3.4.  PENALTIES AND MINIMUM FINES.



 



   Violation of Section 57.4704.3 shall be subject to penalties and
minimum fines as prescribed in Section 57.109.4.2 and Table 57.109.4.



 



 



SEC. 57.4704.4.  POSTING OR DISTRIBUTION OF FIRE SAFETY INFORMATION.



 



   Posting or distribution of fire safety information shall comply with
Sections 57.4704.4.1 through 57.4704.4.7.



 



 



SEC. 57.4704.4.1.  POSTING IN GUEST ROOMS IN HOTELS AND MOTELS.



 



   Every owner, responsible resident, administrator, or manager of a hotel
or motel located in a building which is three or more stories in height,
shall cause the fire safety information specified in Section 57.4704.4.3 of
this section to be posted and maintained in a clear and legible condition
affixed as a notice separate and apart from any other notice at a conspicuous
location on the inside surface of the main exit door or adjacent building
surface from each guest room.  The information shall be printed on a durable
material and permanently affixed so as to be easily readable to the occupant
of that guest room.



 



 



SEC. 57.4704.4.2.  DISTRIBUTION IN DWELLING UNITS IN APARTMENT HOUSES AND
CONDOMINIUMS.



 



   Every owner, responsible resident, administrator, manager, lessor or
sublessor of an apartment house or condominium, any portion of which is three
or more stories in height, shall cause the fire safety information specified
in Section 57.4704.4.3 of this section to be distributed.  The distribution
shall be to each occupant, tenant, buyer, lessee, or sublessee thereof, and
shall be accomplished prior to or at the time that person first occupies or
enters into possession of the premises.  Each distribution shall be
accomplished in such a manner to attract the attention of the occupant to the
fire safety information and to stress its importance in the event of a fire.



 



 



SEC. 57.4704.4.3.  FIRE SAFETY INFORMATION REQUIRED.



 



   Fire safety information shall be printed in a clear, non-ornamental
style of type which is 12 points or larger in size.  The fire safety
information shall provide the reader with the following instructions on
actions to be taken in case of fire:



 



   1.   How to call the Fire Department.



 



   2.   How to alert others and where to activate the fire alarm system.



 



   3.   How to be protected inside a room threatened by fire.



 



   4.   How to evacuate the building.



 



 



SEC. 57.4704.4.3.1.  SMOKE DETECTOR INFORMATION.



 



   Smoke detector information shall be included in fire safety information
and shall state the following:  “SMOKE DETECTORS ARE PROVIDED FOR YOUR
PERSONAL SAFETY.  ANYONE WHO WILLFULLY AND MALICIOUSLY TAMPERS WITH,
DAMAGES, BREAKS, OR REMOVES ANY REQUIRED SMOKE DETECTOR SHALL BE GUILTY OF A
MISDEMEANOR.  ANY PERSON WHO WILLFULLY AND MALICIOUSLY SENDS, GIVES,
TRANSMITS, OR SOUNDS ANY FALSE ALARM OF FIRE IS GUILTY OF A MISDEMEANOR.”



 



 



SEC. 57.4704.4.4.  MODIFICATION.



 



   The Chief shall have the authority to provide for and approve slight
modifications in the fire safety information required to be posted or
distributed pursuant to this section. No modification shall be made without
prior approval of the Chief.



 



 



SEC. 57.4704.4.5.  FORMAT.



 



   A sample format of the fire safety information required by this section
shall be available for inspection at the Fire Prevention Bureau and at
locations designated by the Chief.



 



 



SEC. 57.4704.4.6.  LANGUAGE.



 



   In the event a substantial number of the patrons and occupants of any
occupancy regulated by this section do not read or comprehend the English
language, the required fire safety information shall be printed in both
English and the language understood by the patrons and occupants.



 



 



SEC. 57.4704.4.7.  REMOVAL.



 



   No person shall remove or deface any fire safety information required
in this section except to repair or replace the notice or the surface upon
which it is affixed.



 



 



SEC. 57.4704.4.8.  PENALTIES AND MINIMUM FINES.



 



   Violation of Section 57.4704.4 shall be subject to penalties and
minimum fines as prescribed in Section 57.109.4.2 and Table 57.109.4.



 



 



SEC. 57.4704.5.  SMOKE DETECTOR MAINTENANCE.



 



   Smoke detector maintenance shall comply with Sections 57.4704.5.1
through 57.4704.5.5.



 



 



SEC. 57.4704.5.1.  TESTING.



 



   Smoke detectors required by Chapter 9 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code
(Building Code) shall be maintained in dependable operating condition and
tested every six months or as required by the Chief.  An accurate record of
such tests shall be kept by the owner, manager, or person in charge of the
property, and such records shall be open to examination by the Chief.



 



 



SEC. 57.4704.5.2.  NOTIFICATION.



 



   Every tenant, including every person occupying a dwelling unit or guest
room, shall notify in writing the owner or the owner’s designated agent as
soon as possible of a known defect or malfunction in a smoke detector
required by Chapter 9 of the LosAngeles Municipal Code (Building Code). 
After an occupant has so notified the owner or agent that occupant’s duty
will cease.



 



 



SEC. 57.4704.5.3.  ENTRY.



 



   Any owner or owner’s agent may enter any dwelling unit or guest room
owned by such owner for the purpose of inspecting, repairing, testing, and
maintaining smoke detectors required by Chapter 9 of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code (Building Code). Except in cases of emergency, the owner or
owner’s agent shall give the tenant reasonable notice in writing of the
intention to enter and shall enter only during normal business hours.  A
period of 24 hours shall be considered to be reasonable notice in the absence
of evidence to the contrary.



 



 



SEC. 57.4704.5.4.  NO REFUSAL.



 



   No tenant, after reasonable notice has been given as herein provided,
shall refuse to permit the owner or owner’s agent to enter the premises for
any of the purposes enumerated in Section 57.4704.5.3.



 



 



SEC. 57.4704.5.5.  TAMPERING.



 



   No person shall remove or render inoperable any required smoke detector
except to repair or replace such smoke detector.



 



 



SEC. 57.4704.5.6.  PENALTIES AND MINIMUM FINES.



 



   Violation of Section 57.4704.5 shall be subject to penalties and
minimum fines as prescribed in Section 57.109.4.2 and Table 57.109.4.



 



 



SEC. 57.4704.6.  FLAMMABLE AND COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS.



 



   Flammable and combustible liquids in dwelling units and guest rooms
shall comply with Sections 57.4704.6.1 through 57.4704.6.5.1.



 



 



SEC. 57.4704.6.1.  CLASS IA.



 



   The storage, handling, and use of Class IA liquids in any dwelling unit
or guest room, or in any room, building, or premises accessory to a dwelling
unit or guest room, except as otherwise regulated by this article, is
prohibited.



 



 



SEC. 57.4704.6.2.  CLASS IB, IC, OR CLASS II.



 



   Class IB, IC or Class II liquids with a flashpoint below 110°F shall
not be used in any dwelling unit or guest room for any of the following
purposes:



 



   1.   The cleaning by dipping or submerging of any clothing, drapes,
bedding, or similar material.



 



   2.   The cleaning or polishing of floors, walls, ceilings, windows,
furniture, equipment, or similar surfaces.



 



   3.   Insecticides, pest sprays, or rodent exterminators.



 



   4.   Washing parts or removing grease or dirt.



 



 



SEC. 57.4704.6.3.  APPROVED USES.



 



   The storage, handling, and use of Class IB, IC, or combustible liquids
in hotels or apartment houses shall be only for the purpose of maintenance
and operation of maintenance equipment.  Storage shall be in approved
containers and in hazardous material cabinets in locations approved by the
Chief.



 



 



SEC. 57.4704.6.4.  MAXIMUM QUANTITIES.



 



   Maximum quantities in hotels or apartment houses for Class IB, IC, and
Class II liquids combined shall not exceed 10 gallons and for Class III
liquids shall not exceed 60 gallons.



 



   EXCEPTION:  Storage in excess of these amounts may be approved by the
Chief if stored in a Hazardous Material Room or an H-l, H-2, or H-3 occupancy
that has no openings into portions of the building used by the public.



 



 



SEC. 57.4704.6.5.  BASEMENT STORAGE.



 



   Flammable liquids shall not be stored, handled, or used in basements of
any residential occupancy.



 



 



SEC. 57.4704.6.5.1.  CLASS II OR CLASS III LIQUIDS.



 



   Class II or Class III liquids in quantities not exceeding those in
Section 57.4704.6.4 may be stored in basements with approval and Special
Permit from the Chief pursuant to Section 57.105.8 of this article, provided
the basement is protected by an automatic fire extinguishing system in
accordance with Chapter 9 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code (Plumbing Code).



 



 



SEC. 57.4704.7.  FLAMMABLE AND COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS IN DWELLINGS.



 



   Flammable and Combustible Liquids in Dwellings shall comply with
Sections 57.4704.7.1 through 57.4704.7.2.  Storage of flammable and/or
combustible liquids in dwellings shall be in approved containers and shall be
restricted to private garages, carports, or other locations approved by the
Chief.



 



 



SEC. 57.4704.7.1.  CLASS IA IN DWELLINGS.



 



   The storage and use of Class IA liquids in dwellings is prohibited.



 



   EXCEPTION:  Not more than two gallons of flammable aerosol containers.



 



 



SEC. 57.4704.7.2.  MAXIMUM QUANTITIES.



 



   The maximum quantities stored in dwellings shall not exceed 10 gallons
for Class IB or IC liquids, 15 gallons for Class II liquids, and 60 gallons
for Class III liquids.



 



 



SEC. 57.4704.8.  UNVENTED PORTABLE HEATERS.



 



   No person shall use, maintain, or allow to exist any portable,
fuel-burning, unvented room heater in any residential occupancy.



 



 



SEC. 57.4704.8.1.  PENALTIES AND MINIMUM FINES.



 



   Violation of Section 57.4704.8 shall be subject to penalties and
minimum fines as prescribed in Section 57.109.4.2 and Table 57.109.4.



 



 



SEC. 57.4704.9.  COMPRESSED GASES AND LIQUEFIED FLAMMABLE GASES.



 



   No person shall store or use compressed gases or liquefied flammable
gases within a residential occupancy.



 



   EXCEPTION:  Permanent outside installations of containers and
equipment when installed in compliance with Chapter 47 of this article.



 



 



SEC. 57.4704.10.  SPARK ARRESTERS.



 



   Spark Arresters shall comply with Sections 57.4704.10.1 through
57.4704.10.2.



 



 



SEC. 57.4704.10.1.  INSTALLATION.



 



   Every residential occupancy in which is installed any chimney, flue, or
stovepipe attached to any fireplace, stove, barbeque, or other device that
burns any solid or liquid fuel shall have such chimney, flue, or stovepipe
equipped with an approved spark arrester installed in such a manner as to be
visible for the purposes of inspection and maintenance.



 



 



SEC. 57.4704.10.2.  FIRE HAZARD.



 



   No person shall maintain any chimney, flue, or stovepipe in such a
manner as to create a fire hazard.



 



 



SEC. 57.4705.  NEW HIGH-RISE.



 



 



SEC. 57.4705.1.  ELEVATOR SYSTEM.



 



   Elevator systems shall comply with the general requirements of Sections
57.4705.1.1 through 57.4705.1.8.



 



 



SEC. 57.4705.1.1.  CONSTRUCTION.



 



   Except for the designated main floor, all elevators shall open into
elevator vestibules which are constructed with walls, floors, and ceilings
having a fire-resistive rating of not less than one hour.



 



 



SEC. 57.4705.1.2.  VESTIBULE OPENINGS.



 



   All vestibule openings other than those for elevator doors and stairway
enclosures shall be protected with automatic- closing fire assemblies having
not less than a 45-minute fire-resistive rating, actuated by “combustion
products” type smoke detectors.



 



 



SEC. 57.4705.1.3.  SMOKE DETECTOR.



 



   Each elevator vestibule shall be provided with an approved smoke
detector located on the lobby ceiling.  The elevator controls shall be
designed so that the activation of a lobby smoke detector will cause all
elevators serving that landing or floor to return non-stop to the designated
main floor and be under manual control only.



 



 



SEC. 57.4705.1.3.1.  ALTERNATE FLOOR RECALL.



 



   Elevators with an alternate floor recall feature shall also have an
approved smoke detector in the designated main floor elevator lobby. 
Activation of this smoke detector would recall the elevator to an alternate
floor designated by the Chief.



 



 



SEC. 57.4705.1.4.  ELEVATOR KEYS.



 



   There shall be provided for Fire Department use in case of any
emergency, a key for the main floor switch and for each fire control elevator
and emergency elevator. These keys shall be readily accessible and in a
location approved by the Chief.



 



 



SEC. 57.4705.1.5.  SIGN.



 



   A permanent sign shall be installed adjacent to the elevator call
station on each floor reading “IN CASE OF FIRE USE STAIRWAY FOR EXIT.  DO
NOT USE ELEVATOR.”



 



 



SEC. 57.4705.1.6.  FIRE CONTROL ELEVATOR.



 



   At least one elevator in each bank of elevators shall be available for
fire emergency service and shall have its controls designed so that key
switches located in the building control station/fire command center will
recall said elevator or elevators to the designated main floor.  The
elevator or elevators shall be interconnected with the standby power.  This
standby power shall be transferable to any other elevator in the bank and
shall be capable of operating the elevator with a full load.



 



 



SEC. 57.4705.1.7.  EMERGENCY ELEVATOR.



 



   At least one elevator car serving all building levels shall be made
available for emergency use and shall contain the following:



 



   1.   A minimum inside car platform of 4 feet 3 inches deep by 6 feet
8 inches wide with a minimum clear opening width of 42 inches, unless
otherwise designed and approved to provide equivalent utility to accommodate
an ambulance stretcher having a minimum size of 24 inches by 84 inches in its
horizontal position.



 



   2.   The elevator shall be subject to control from the building
control station.



 



   3.   The elevator shall be interconnected with the standby power
system.



 



   4.   The elevator shall be identified with a permanent sign
installed adjacent to the elevator control panel in the building control
station.



 



 



SEC. 57.4705.1.8.  PERMIT.



 



   Installation, alteration, and major repair of the items listed in
Sections 57.4705.1.1 through 57.4705.1.3 of this section shall be performed
under permit of the Department of Building and Safety, when such permit is
required.



 



 



SEC. 57.4705.2.  SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS.



 



   Except as provided herein, elevators shall conform to the requirements
of Article 51, Part 2, Title 24, C.C.R.



 



 



SEC. 57.4705.3.  VERTICAL EXIT ENCLOSURE.



 



   There shall be provided for Fire Department use, at least two access
doors to two vertical exit enclosures that serve all building levels and the
roof at the main entrance level, one of which is inside the building.



 



 



SEC. 57.4705.4.  EMERGENCY HELICOPTER LANDING FACILITY.



 



   Each building shall have a rooftop emergency helicopter landing
facility in a location approved by the Chief.  A heliport as classified in
FAA Advisory Circular 150/5390 2B may be accepted in lieu of the emergency
helicopter landing facility.  Facilities shall be installed under permit of
Chapter 9 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code (Building and Plumbing Codes) and
should also be in accordance with the guidelines of FAA Advisory Circular
150/5390 2B.



 



 



SEC. 57.4705.4.1.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   The following words or group of words, when used in this section, shall
be defined as follows:



 



   Approach-Departure Path.  The flight path of the helicopter as it
approaches or departs from the emergency helicopter landing facility
designated take-off and landing area.  The approach-departure path is
measured from the edge of the takeoff and landing area and is a rising slope
determined by a ratio of 8 feet horizontal distance for every 1 foot of
vertical height.



 



   Peripheral Area. An obstruction free (i.e. no intrusions into the
approach-departure path) area adjacent to the takeoff and landing area
serving as a safety zone.



 



   Takeoff and Landing Area.  The designated area on the emergency
helicopter landing facility from which helicopter departures and approaches
are intended to originate or terminate.



 



   Touchdown Pad.  The load bearing portion of the emergency helicopter
landing facility designated takeoff and landing area on which a helicopter
may land.



 



 



SEC. 57.4705.4.2.  MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.



 



   An emergency helicopter landing facility shall meet the following
minimum requirements:



 



   1.   Approach-Departure Path:  The facility shall have two
approach-departure paths with a 90-degree arc of separation between the two.



 



   2.   Touchdown Pad:  The touchdown pad shall have a dimension of 50
feet by 50 feet.



 



   NOTE:  The touchdown pad is the same size as the takeoff and landing
area.



 



   3.   Peripheral Area:  The peripheral area (obstruction free safety
zone) surrounding the takeoff and landing area/touchdown pad shall be 25 feet
from the edge of the takeoff and landing area.



 



   4.   Safety Net:  If the touchdown pad is elevated more than 30
inches above the adjoining roof level, a horizontally attached safety net
shall be installed around the perimeter.  The safety net shall be located in
such a manner that it will not penetrate the approach-departure paths.



 



   5.   A wind-indicating device shall be provided.



 



   6.   Fire Protection: One Class H standpipe in accordance with
Chapter 9 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code (Plumbing Code) shall be
provided.  A weather resistant cabinet for fire hose shall be provided with
100 feet of rubber- lined, single-jacketed, 1 1/2 inch fire hose equipped
with a fog nozzle.



 



   7.   The emergency helicopter landing facility shall be marked as
indicated in Figure 57.4705.4.



 



   EXCEPTION:  Heliport marking as defined in FAA Advisory Circular
150/5390 2B for private use or public use may be accepted.



 



FIGURE 57.4705.4
MARKINGS UTILIZING A SQUARE FOR A ROOF-TOP EMERGENCY HELICOPTER LANDING
FACILITY.



 







   NOTES:



 



   1.   The preferred touchdown pad background color is white.



 



   2.   The red numeral indicates the allowable weight, in thousands of
pounds, that the facility is capable of supporting.



 



   3.   The numeral shall be oriented toward magnetic north.



 



   4.   Allowable weight shall not be in metric units.



 



 



SEC. 57.4705.5.  PORTABLE FIRE EXTINGUISHER REQUIRED.



 



   At least one Class 2A:10B:C portable fire extinguisher shall be
provided in each high-rise residential occupancy unit in such a manner that
the extinguisher is immediately accessible and mounted adjacent to the main
exit.



 



   EXCEPTION:  High-rise residential occupancy units which are protected
by an approved automatic sprinkler system throughout.



 



 



SEC. 57.4705.5.1.  PENALTIES AND MINIMUM FINES.



 



   Violation of Section 57.4705.5 shall be subject to penalties and
minimum fines as prescribed in Section 57.109.4.2 and Table 57.109.4.



 



 



SEC. 57.4705.6.  STANDBY POWER FOR WINDOW WASHING EQUIPMENT.



 



   See Section 57.604.2.14.1.3.1 requirement for standby power to exterior
window washing equipment for use on high-rise buildings.



 



 



SEC. 57.4801.  GENERAL.



 



   Chapter 48 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted by
reference with the following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.4802.  OCCUPANCY CLASSIFICATION.



 



   Section 4802 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.4803.  REQUIRED PERMITS.



 



   Section 4803 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.4804.  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.



 



   Section 4804 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.4805.  FIRE-EXTINGUISHING SYSTEMS.



 



   Section 4805 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.4806.  FIRE DETECTION EQUIPMENT.



 



   Section 4806 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.4807.  FIRE SAFETY OFFICERS.



 



   Section 4807 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.4808.  ELECTRICAL REQUIREMENTS.



 



   Section 4808 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.4809.  MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT.



 



   Section 4809 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.4810.  DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.



 



   Section 4810 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.4811.  PRODUCTION LOCATIONS.



 



   Section 4811 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.4811.1.1.  MOTION PICTURE LOCATIONS – TELEVISION REMOTES.



 



   No person shall operate any television broadcasting, videotaping
equipment, or motion picture photographic equipment for commercial or
professional purposes, or commercial still-photographic equipment outside of
an approved studio unless notice of such operation shall have been given to
the Fire Department at least 24 hours prior to the commencement of such
operation.  Spontaneous news coverage activities are exempt from this
provision.



 



 



SEC. 57.4901.  GENERAL.



 



   Chapter 49 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted by
reference with the following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.4902.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   Section 4902 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.4903.  RESERVED.



 



   Section 4903 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.4904.  FIRE HAZARD SEVERITY ZONES.



 



   Section 4904 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.4905.  WILDFIRE PROTECTION BUILDING CONSTRUCTION.



 



   Section 4905 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.4906.  HAZARDOUS VEGETATION AND FUEL MANAGEMENT.



 



   Section 4906 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.4907.  DEFENSIBLE SPACE.



 



   Section 4907 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.4908.  VERY HIGH FIRE HAZARD SEVERITY ZONE-REQUIREMENTS SPECIFIC TO
LOS ANGELES.



 



 



SEC. 57.4908.1.  VERY HIGH FIRE HAZARD SEVERITY ZONE ESTABLISHED.



 



   The Very High Fire Hazard Severity Zone shall be established as set
forth in Sections 57.4908.1.1 through 57.4908.1.3.



 



 



SEC. 57.4908.1.1.  VERY HIGH FIRE HAZARD SEVERITY ZONE ORDINANCE AND MAP.



 



   The Very High Fire Hazard Severity Zones are hereby established and
declared to be those districts and areas included within the boundary
described and set forth in the most current map (amended by Ord. 181,719 ,
Eff. 6/26/11.) which is incorporated herein and made a part hereof for all
purposes and shall be available at the Fire Marshal’s office.



 




FIGURE 57.4908.1.1
VERY HIGH FIRE HAZARD SEVERITY ZONE MAP
















 



 



SEC. 57.4908.1.2.  MODIFIED BOUNDARY LINES.



 



   When in the course of improvement of undeveloped areas of the City, new
streets, lots and building sites are created where none existed before, and
such new streets, lots and building sites overlap the existing boundary line
of the Very High Fire Hazard Severity Zone, the boundary line of such zone
shall be deemed to be relocated to coincide with the property boundary or
along the center line of such newly created streets that lie closest to the
original boundary line location.



 



 



SEC. 57.4908.1.3.  LEGAL DESCRIPTION.



 



   The Fire Code Official shall, by regulation, establish a legal
description of the Very High Fire Hazard Severity Zone.  Such regulation
shall be amended from time to time to reflect changes necessitated by Section
57.4908.1.2, or for other necessary purposes.  Every such regulation of the
Fire Code Official shall be established according to the requirements of
Section 57.104.1.1 of this article.



 



 



SEC. 57.4908.2.  POSTING OF SIGNS PROHIBITING SMOKING AND BURNING.



 



   There shall be no open burning or smoking in the Very High Fire Hazard
Severity Zone.  The Chief shall cause such districts to be posted at all
times by suitable signs giving notice thereof.



 



 



SEC. 57.4908.3.  AUTHORITY TO CONSTRUCT.



 



   Maintain and Close Fire Roads, Fire Trails and Firebreaks.  The Chief
shall have authority to construct fire roads and firebreaks in or upon any
undeveloped lands in any mountain or hill area, whether or not such lands are
public or private, with the consent of the owner thereof, and to maintain the
same on a permanent basis when the Chief determines that such fire roads and
firebreak are necessary for the protection of life and property against fire
or panic.



 



 



SEC. 57.4908.3.1.  AUTHORITY TO SECURE.



 



   The Chief may install gates or cables, and securely lock the same, to
prevent the use by unauthorized persons of any fire road, truck trail or
other road which is not a public highway and over which the Fire Department
has the right to pass, whether by easement, license, City ownership or
otherwise, for purposes relating to fire protection or control.



 



 



SEC. 57.4908.4.  AUTHORITY IN STATE AND FEDERAL FORESTS.



 



   All lands within the limits of the City of Los Angeles and lying within
the boundaries of any State or Federal forest lands may be closed to the
public by the Chief or by any duly authorized State or Federal officer,
provided such closure is not in conflict with any State or Federal law.  No
person shall enter upon any lands so closed except by valid Special Permit
from the Chief pursuant to Section 57.105.8 of this article.  Notice of such
closure shall be deemed sufficient where provided pursuant to Section
57.4908.8.1 of this article.  (Amended by Ord. No. 186,291, Eff. 9/13/19.)



 



   EXCEPTION:  Closure of private lands shall not prohibit the use or
entry upon such lands by the owner, his guests or invitees, provided such
guests or invitees have written permission of the owner of such private lands
to enter upon the same.



 



 



SEC. 57.4908.5.  OPEN FLAME PROHIBITED.



 



   There shall be no open flame or self-contained device capable of
producing flame permitted or located upon any road, street or fire road
within the Very High Fire Hazard Severity Zone.



 



 



SEC. 57.4908.6.  SMOKING PROHIBITED.



 



   It shall be unlawful for any person to light, ignite or smoke any
cigar, cigarette, tobacco in a pipe or other form of smoldering substance
within the Very High Fire Hazard Severity Zone.



 



 



SEC. 57.4908.7.  CLEARANCE OF VEGETATIVE GROWTH FROM ELECTRICAL TRANSMISSION
LINES.



 



   Any person owning, leasing, controlling, operating or maintaining any
electrical transmission line over any mountainous forest, brush, or hazardous
vegetation covered land shall at all times cut, trim, or otherwise remove all
forked, dead, decadent, rotten, diseased, or weakened branches of trees, or
trees that may contact or fall upon any transmission line.  Live trees shall
remain pruned and trimmed to prevent exposure to electrical transmission or
branch lines.



 



 



SEC. 57.4908.8.  RESTRICTED ENTRY OR PRESENCE IN THE VERY HIGH FIRE HAZARD
SEVERITY ZONE.



 



   Any person who enters or is present in the Very High Fire Hazard
Severity Zone in violation of Section 57.4908.4 of this article, except upon
public roadways, inhabited areas, or established trails and campsites open to
the public, is committing a trespass.  Notice of said offense shall be
deemed sufficient where provided pursuant to Section 57.4908.8.1 of this
article.  (Amended by Ord. No. 186,291, Eff. 9/13/19.)



 



   EXCEPTIONS:



 



   1.   This subsection shall not prohibit residents or owners of
private property or their invitees or guests from going to or from such
private property, provided that such invitees or guests have the permission
of the owner or resident to be in or upon such private property.



 



   2.   This subsection shall not restrict any public officer in the
pursuit of his duty.



 



 



SEC. 57.4908.8.1.  NOTICE.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 186,291, Eff. 9/13/19.)



 



   For purposes of Sections 57.4908 through 57.4908.9.1, notice may be
given as follows:



 



   1.   Posted Property.  By posted signs identifying the property
closed to the public within the Very High Fire Hazard Severity Zone, bearing
the words "PROPERTY CLOSED TO THE PUBLIC - TRESPASSING FORBIDDEN BY LAW" in
letters not less than 3 inches in height, at the entrance thereto and along
all exterior boundaries at equal intervals not less than three to the mile,
and at all roads and trails entering the property; or



 



   2.   Personal Notice.  By personal notice given directly to a
person found in an area of the Very High Fire Hazard Severity Zone closed to
the public, advising the person that the area is closed to the public and
that if the person refuses or fails immediately to leave the closed area, or
if the person leaves and returns, the person's presence in the non-public
area constitutes trespassing.



 



 



SEC. 57.4908.8.2.  TRESPASS.



 



   No person shall travel or trespass upon any firebreak or fire road.



 



 



SEC. 57.4908.8.3.  SPECIAL PERMIT.



 



   No person shall operate, drive or park any motorcycle, motor scooter or
other vehicle within the Very High Fire Hazard Severity Zone, except upon
clearly established public or private roads, without first having secured a
Special Permit from the Chief pursuant to Section 57.105.8 of this article.



 



 



SEC. 57.4908.8.4.  UNAUTHORIZED PARKING.



 



   No unauthorized person shall park any vehicle so as to obstruct the
entrance to any fire road, fire trail or firebreak.



 



 



SEC. 57.4908.9.  TAMPERING WITH ESTABLISHED LOCKS, SIGNS, BARRIERS OR WATER
TANKS.



 



   No person, except one authorized and acting within the scope of his
official duties, shall unlock, open, damage, or tamper with or cause to be
unlocked, opened, damaged, or tampered with any lock, gate, door, barrier,
seal, water tank enclosure, water valve, hydrant, or other fire protection
equipment or facility installed by or under control of the Department or the
Federal Division of Forestry.



 



 



SEC. 57.4908.9.1.  DEFACING SIGNS.



 



   No person, except one authorized and acting within the scope of his
official duties, shall remove, deface, mar, mutilate, or change the position
of any sign, installed by the Chief pursuant to this article, designating
“CLOSED AREA,” “NO SMOKING,” “NO OPEN FIRES,” “RESTRICTED
ENTRY,” or other sign or device installed to give warning and to regulate
persons’ actions within the Very High Fire Hazard Severity Zone.



 



 



SEC. 57.5001.  GENERAL.



 



   Chapter 50 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted by
reference with the following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.5001.5.  PERMITS.



 



   Permits shall be required as set forth in Sections 57.105.6, 57.105.7,
57.120, and 57.121.  When required by the Fire Code Official, permittees
shall apply for approval to permanently close a storage, use or handling
facility.  Such application shall be submitted at least 30 days prior to the
termination of the storage, use or handling of hazardous materials.  The
Fire Code Official is authorized to require that the application be
accompanied by an approved facility closure plan in accordance with Section
57.5001.6.3.



 



 



SEC. 57.5002.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   Section 5002 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.5002.1.1.



 



   Portable Container



 



 



SEC. 57.5003.  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.



 



   Section 5003 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.5003.2.2.1.  [DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION.]



 



   7.   Gravity distribution systems are prohibited, unless
specifically approved by the Chief.



 



   8.   When such lines lead into buildings, anti-siphon valves shall
be installed at the highest point in the supply line where it leaves the top
of the tank. Approved substitute protection may be provided for highly
volatile liquids.



 



   9.   Where necessary for public safety, valves shall be provided to
permit proper emergency control for piping systems at each independent
element of use therein.  The Chief may require piping systems to be equipped
with block valves at such locations as may be deemed essential for public
safety.



 



 



SEC. 57.5003.2.2.3.  HAZARDOUS MATERIALS STORAGE TANKS INSIDE BUILDINGS.



 



   Tanks for the storage of hazardous materials in liquid form inside
buildings shall be provided with any of the following:



 



   1.   A normally closed remotely-activated valve.



 



   2.   An automatic-closing heat-activated valve.



 



   3.   An approved device on each liquid transfer connection below the
liquid level that shall provide a quick cut-off of flow in the event of fire.



 



 



SEC. 57.5003.2.4.1.1.  SECONDARY CONTAINMENT.



 



   When there is a possibility of water intruding into the space between
the primary tank and secondary containment by precipitation, infiltration, or
other means, the facility shall be designed and constructed with the
capability to monitor and remove such water intrusion.  Secondary
containment systems shall have a nationally recognized testing laboratory
listing or a Los Angeles Fire Department Equipment Approval.



 



 



SEC. 57.5003.2.4.1.2.  UNDERGROUND PIPING.



 



   All underground piping in connection with underground tanks shall
comply with the following:



 



   1.   Piping shall lead out of the top.



 



   2.   Piping shall be covered with at least 1 foot of earth or 4
inches of earth and 4 inches of concrete except for necessary riser pipes.



 



   3.   Piping shall be equipped with means for disconnection.



 



   4.   At any point of change from the vertical to the horizontal or
from the horizontal to the vertical, there shall be installed an approved
flex connector assembly.



 



 



SEC. 57.5003.2.4.1.3.  FILL PIPES.



 



   Fill pipes of underground tanks shall not exceed 8 inches inside
diameter and shall be kept closed with a tight-fitting cap.  Every fill
opening shall be located in a fill box outside of buildings except openings
for underground waste oil tanks used in connection with public garages or
auto fueling stations inside buildings.  Fill openings inside buildings
shall be equipped in a manner to prevent escape of vapors to the inside of
the buildings.



 



 



SEC. 57.5003.2.4.2.2.  INSULATION.



 



   Atmospheric tanks containing hazardous materials may be insulated by
the application of insulating material approved by the Chief.  Insulating
materials shall be fire resistant and shall not decompose rapidly if exposed
to fire.



 



 



SEC. 57.5003.2.4.3.  PRESSURES ABOVE AMBIENT.



 



   Tanks, pressure vessels, vaporizers, and associated equipment used in
conjunction with liquid or gaseous hazardous materials at ambient
temperatures and pressures in excess of 0.5 psig shall be in accordance with
Sections 57.5003.2.4.3.1 through 57.5003.2.4.3.6.



 



 



SEC. 57.5003.2.4.3.1.  INSTALLATION OF ABOVEGROUND CONTAINERS.



 



   Aboveground tanks and pressure vessels used to store liquid or gaseous
hazardous materials at ambient temperatures and pressures in excess of 0.5
psig shall be in accordance with the following:



 



   1.   Tanks and pressure vessels installed aboveground shall be
provided with substantial masonry or noncombustible structural supports so
installed as to prevent accidental movement.



 



   2.   Horizontal, aboveground tanks and pressure vessels shall be
mounted on saddles in such a manner as to permit expansion and contraction,
not only of the container but also of the connected piping.  Only two such
saddles shall be used and every container shall be supported to prevent the
concentration of excessive loads on the supporting portion of the shell.



 



 



SEC. 57.5003.2.4.3.2.  INSTALLATION OF UNDERGROUND STORAGE CONTAINERS.



 



   Underground tanks and pressure vessels used to store liquid or gaseous
hazardous materials at ambient temperatures and pressures in excess of 0.5
psig shall be in accordance with Sections 57.5003.2.4.3.2.1 through
57.5003.2.4.3.2.8.



 



 



SEC. 57.5003.2.4.3.2.1.  BURIED CONTAINERS.



 



   Storage containers or regulating equipment shall not be buried below
ground unless written approval is first obtained from the Chief.



 



 



SEC. 57.5003.2.4.3.2.2.  BURIAL DEPTH.



 



   Every storage container installed underground shall be buried not less
than 6 inches below the surface of the natural grade level except where the
container might be subject to abrasive action or physical damage due to
vehicular traffic or other causes in which case it shall be:



 



   Installed not less than 2 feet below the surface of the natural grade
level; or otherwise protected against physical damage.



 



 



SEC. 57.5003.2.4.3.2.3.  CORROSION RESISTANCE.



 



   The exterior surfaces of every such container shall be covered with an
approved corrosion resistant coating material applied in an approved manner.



 



 



SEC. 57.5003.2.4.3.2.4.  INSTALLATION.



 



   Every such vessel shall be set on a 6-inch thick bedding of
water-washed sand (beach sand shall not be used) free from soil, rock, or
gravel.  Before any back filling is done, the position of the vessel and the
sand bedding shall be approved by the Chief. After such approval, the
excavation shall be back filled with the same quality water-washed sand in
such a manner that the sand back fill on the sides, ends, and the top of such
vessel shall be at least 6 inches thick.



 



 



SEC. 57.5003.2.4.3.2.5.  PIPING CONNECTIONS.



 



   Every opening for the attachment of piping and appurtenant equipment
shall be in the top of such vessel.  No pipe or equipment connection to any
such vessel shall be buried underground, but shall be aboveground, connected
to a dome or manway which is an integral part of the vessel, or shall be in a
valve pit constructed as provided in Section 57.5003.2.4.3.2.6.



 



 



SEC. 57.5003.2.4.3.2.6.  PITS.



 



   No pit shall be used or maintained in connection with any underground
vessel which is greater than 2 feet in depth or contains in excess of 18
cubic feet of space.



 



 



SEC. 57.5003.2.4.3.2.7.  COLLISION BARRIERS.



 



   A collision barrier and a security fence, constructed as provided in
Section 57.312, shall be installed and maintained to provide a minimum
clearance of 5 feet from the outer portion of every pit, vaporizer, pump,
valve, or pipe riser.



 



 



SEC. 57.5003.2.4.3.2.8.  INSPECTION.



 



   All buried containers shall be completely uncovered for an inspection
of all external surfaces at least once every three years.  The intervals may
be changed at the discretion of the Chief if a test plate is buried adjacent
to the container and shows no appreciable corrosion on inspection by the
Department after three years of service; provided, however, that every
container shall be uncovered at least every 15 years.  The test plates shall
be of the same material as the shell of the tank and shall be at least 1/4 of
the container diameter in length and 6 inches wide, and shall be buried in
the water-washed sand at least as deep as the lowest surface of the container
and shall not be coated.  Test plates shall be provided in accordance with
the following:



 



   1.   Containers 10 feet or less in length, one test plate.



 



   2.   Containers more than 10 feet but less than 20 feet in length,
two test plates, one on each side near opposite ends.



 



   3.   Containers 20 feet or more in length, one test plate for each
10 feet of length, placed on alternate sides at 10-foot intervals.



 



 



SEC. 57.5003.2.4.3.3.  FILLING TERMINALS.



 



   The filling pipe inlet connections for tanks filled on consumer’s
premises shall not be located less than 15 feet from any opening into or
under a building where such opening is below the level of the filling
connections; and in no case shall the filling pipe inlet connection be
located less than 10 feet from any building, street, or alley.



 



 



SEC. 57.5003.2.4.3.4.  INDIRECT FIRED VAPORIZERS.



 



   Indirect fired vaporizers shall be equipped with the following
safeguards:



 



   1.   The device that supplies the necessary heat for producing
steam, hot water, or other heating medium shall be separated from all rooms
containing vaporizers, pumps, and central gas mixing devices by a vapor-tight
one-hour fire- resistive separation.



 



   2.   Gas-fired heating systems supplying heat exclusively for
vaporization purposes shall be equipped with automatic safety devices to shut
off the flow of gas to main burners, if pilot light should fail.



 



   3.   A shut-off valve shall be installed on the liquid line to the
vaporizer unit outside of any vaporizer room or building.



 



 



SEC. 57.5003.2.4.3.5.  DIRECT FIRED VAPORIZERS.



 



   Direct fired vaporizers shall be equipped with the following safeguards:



 



   1.   Every direct fired vaporizer shall be marked with the name of
the manufacturer, the rated B.T.U. input to the burners, the area of the heat
exchange surface of the vaporizer in square feet, the outside surface area in
square feet, and the maximum vaporizing capacity in gallons per hour.



 



   2.   Direct fired vaporizers shall be separated from storage
vessels, buildings, streets, and adjacent property lines that may be built
upon in accordance with Table 57.5003.2.4.3.5.



 



   3.   Every direct fired vaporizer shall be located not less than 50
feet from filling connections.



 



   4.   Direct fired vaporizers shall be provided with a means for
shutting off the fuel to the main burner and pilot from outside the vaporizer
housing.



 



TABLE 57.5003.2.4.3.5
REQUIRED SEPARATIONS FOR VAPORIZERS



 



 


Vaporizing Capacity In Gallons Per Hour

 

Buildings, Streets, & Adjacent Property Lines That May Be Built Upon

 

Storage Vessels




Less Than 25

 

25 Feet

 

5 Feet




25 – 100

 

40 Feet

 

5 Feet




More Than 100

 

50 Feet

 

5 Feet




 



 



SEC. 57.5003.2.4.3.6.  OPERATIONS OF PROCESS VESSELS.



 



   Where the relief of excess pressure from process vessels might result
in undue hazard to persons or property through excessive release of flammable
or toxic materials, the Chief may require the operating pressure of process
vessels to be a suitable margin below the design pressure.  In determining
the required margin, due consideration shall be given to the operating
characteristics of the processes and of the facilities for relieving excess
pressure.  As an alternate thereto, the Chief may permit a system for safe
disposal of materials vented from the facilities for relieving excess
pressure.



 



 



SEC. 57.5003.2.6.3.  MANIFOLD SYSTEMS AND PIPING.



 



   Each manifold system and the piping connected to systems utilizing
hazardous materials, shall be inspected yearly by a qualified installer or
representative of the gas supplier and certified free of defects.  Such
certification shall be in writing, and these records shall be open to
examination by the Chief.



 



 



SEC. 57.5003.2.10.  REPAIR OF UNDERGROUND TANKS.



 



   Underground tanks may be repaired in a method approved by the Chief and
in accordance with the following provisions:



 



   1.   Before such repair, a soils investigation shall be conducted to
determine if an unauthorized release has occurred.



 



   2.   A permit shall be issued in accordance with Section 57.105.7 of
this article.



 



   3.   After such repair, the tank shall be tested in a method
approved by the Chief.



 



 



SEC. 57.5003.3.1.5.  REPORTING.



 



   Any person who has knowledge of an unauthorized release of a hazardous
substance shall notify the Chief immediately.  A written report shall be
submitted by the owner, operator, or permittee within ten days after the
escape of a hazardous substance from a primary container when the
unauthorized release:



 



   1.   Has occurred or has the potential to enter groundwater.



 



   2.   Could endanger life, property, or the environment.



 



   3.   Is contained by secondary containment.



 



   The written report shall provide information to the Department relating
to the ability of the permittee to contain and dispose of the hazardous
substance, the estimated time it will take to achieve this, and the degree of
hazard created.  The Chief may verify that the hazardous substance is being
contained and appropriately disposed of.  If at any time it is determined
that the permittee is not adequately containing and disposing of such
hazardous substance, the Chief shall have the power and authority to initiate
and direct an emergency response in order to protect the public safety,
health and welfare, public and private property, wildlife, marine fisheries,
wet lands or ocean resources, or natural environment.  The permittee shall
be liable for reimbursement to the Department for all emergency response
costs incurred.



 



 



SEC. 57.5003.5.2.  ADDITIONAL SIGNAGE.



 



   In addition to the signage required in Section 57.5003.5, additional
signage shall be provided in accordance with Sections 57.5003.5.2.1 through
57.5003.5.2.2.



 



 



SEC. 57.5003.5.2.1.  WARNING PLACARDS AND SIGNS.



 



   Wherever corrosive materials are stored or processed, signs with
letters not less than 3 inches high on contrasting background stating
“WARNING – CORROSIVE MATERIALS” shall be posted at any location within
a building and at any location within an area outside a building where such
materials are processed or stored, and at such other locations as may be
required by the Chief.



 



 



SEC. 57.5003.5.2.2.  WARNING PLACARDS AND SIGNS.



 



   Whenever hazardous materials (water-reactive materials, acid-reactive
materials, and air-reactive materials), are processed or stored signs with
letters not less than 3 inches high on contrasting background stating,
“WATER-REACTIVE MATERIAL,” “ACID-REACTIVE MATERIAL,” and/or
“AIR-REACTIVE MATERIAL,” appropriately identifying that type of hazard or
hazards involved, shall be posted at any location inside a building and at
any location within an area outside a building where such materials are
stored or processed, and at such other locations as may be required by the
Chief.



 



 



SEC. 57.5003.9.  GENERAL SAFETY PRECAUTIONS.



 



   General precautions for the safe storage, handling or care of hazardous
materials shall be in accordance with Sections 57.5003.9.1 through
57.5003.9.11.



 



 



SEC. 57.5003.9.11.  HANDLING.



 



   No person shall handle hazardous materials in a manner that will give
rise to an unreasonable danger to life or property by reason of chemical
action, fire or explosion.



 



 



SEC. 57.5003.13.  HARBOR FACILITIES.



 



   Hazardous materials falling within the scope of “Dangerous Cargo”
as defined by Coast Guard regulations shall comply with Harbor and Fire
Department regulations for their handling in the Los Angeles Harbor Area.



 



 



SEC. 57.5003.14.  TRANSFERRING BY PUMPS.



 



   The transferring of hazardous materials by pumps shall be in accordance
with the following:



 



   1.   The transfer of flammable or combustible liquids shall be
through piping by means of approved pumps, inert gas, or water
displacement.  Except as required in process equipment, gravity flow shall
not be used.  The use of compressed air as a transferring medium shall be
prohibited.



 



   2.   Pumps shall be of a type approved for pressure, temperature,
and compatibility of materials transferred.



 



   3.   Positive displacement pumps shall be provided with pressure
relief discharging back to the tank or to pump suction.



 



   4.   Equipment shall be designed and arranged to prevent the
unintentional escape of liquids and vapors and to minimize the quantity
escaping in the event of an accidental release.



 



   5.   Pumps shall be safely located and housed in the open or in fire
resistive or noncombustible structures.  Motors used to pump contents from
tanks shall not be located beneath such tanks.



 



 



SEC. 57.5003.15.  TANK VEHICLES.



 



   Tank vehicles shall be in accordance with Sections 57.5003.15.1 through
57.5003.15.2 when used for the transportation of any of the following
hazardous materials:



 



   1.   Liquefied Flammable Gasses.



 



   2.   Flammable Gasses.



 



   3.   Gaseous Toxic Materials or Gaseous Oxidizing Materials when
transported at pressures in excess of 0.5 psig.



 



   4.   Liquefied Toxic Materials or Liquefied Oxidizing Materials
having a vapor pressure in excess of 14.7 psig at a temperature of 100F.



 



 



SEC. 57.5003.15.1.  PROHIBITED LOCATIONS.



 



   No tank vehicle shall be driven into, stored, or parked on any premises
occupied by or used as an assembly, institutional, educational or residential
occupancy, trailer camp, auto park or similar occupancy, except by Special
Permit from the Chief pursuant to Section 57.105.8 of this article.



 



 



SEC. 57.5003.15.2.  TRANSFER HOSES.



 



   Transfer hoses shall be in accordance with the following:



 



   1.   Transfer hoses or manifold outlets for hose connections used
with cargo tanks shall not exceed two in number.  The connection between the
tank and the meter shall not be considered as one of these outlets. 
Transfer hoses shall not be longer than 100 feet.



 



   2.   Each transfer hose shall be equipped with a shutoff valve at
the discharge end.  Hose used for the transfer of liquid shall be equipped
with an approved safety relief valve.



 



   3.   Bleeding of piping systems and transfer hoses in other than
approved locations is prohibited.



 



 



SEC. 57.5004.  STORAGE.



 



   Section 5004 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.5005.  USE, DISPENSING AND HANDLING.



 



   Section 5005 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.5005.1.12.  FILLING OR TRANSFERRING HAZARDOUS MATERIALS IN PORTABLE
CONTAINERS.



 



   The filling or transferring of liquid or gaseous hazardous materials
stored at ambient temperatures and pressures in excess of 0.5 psig shall be
in accordance with the following:



 



   1.   No person shall fill any portable container with any material
for which it was not designed, nor shall any person fill any portable
container beyond its rated capacity, nor fill any unapproved portable
container.



 



   2.   The transferring or dispensing of liquid or gas into any
portable container shall be performed only in a Hazardous Materials Room, in
occupancies approved for such use, or entirely outside of any building.



 



   3.   The transferring or dispensing of materials from a tank truck
to a portable container on any public street, sidewalk, alley or public way,
is prohibited.



 



   4.   A qualified attendant or operator shall be in constant
attendance at the transfer connections between a transportation tank truck,
containing hazardous materials, and the portable vessels to be filled, from
the time connections are made until connections are finally broken.



 



   5.   The transferring or dispensing of materials from one portable
container to another is prohibited.



 



 



SEC. 57.5101.  GENERAL.



 



   Chapter 51 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted by
reference with the following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.5102.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   Section 5102 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.5103.  CLASSIFICATION OF AEROSOL PRODUCTS.



 



   Section 5103 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.5104.  INSIDE STORAGE OF AEROSOL PRODUCTS.



 



   Section 5104 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.5105.  OUTSIDE STORAGE.



 



   Section 5105 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.5106.  RETAIL DISPLAY.



 



   Section 5106 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.5107.  MANUFACTURING FACILITIES.



 



   Section 5107 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



[CHAPTER 52 RESERVED]



 



 



SEC. 57.5301.  GENERAL.



 



   Chapter 53 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted by
reference with the following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.5301.2.  PERMITS.



 



   Permits shall be required as set forth in Sections 57.105.6 and
57.105.7.



 



 



SEC. 57.5301.2.1.  DESIGN AND INSTALLATION PERMIT REQUIRED.



 



   Permits shall be required for design and installation of nonflammable
medical gas systems in non-institutional facilities as set forth in Section
57.105.7 for installation of pressure vessels or liquefied gas manifold
systems.



 



 



SEC. 57.5302.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   Section 5302 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.5303.  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.



 



   Section 5303 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.5304.  STORAGE OF COMPRESSED GASES.



 



   Section 5304 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.5305.  USE AND HANDLING OF COMPRESSED GASES.



 



   Section 5305 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.5306.  MEDICAL GAS SYSTEMS.



 



   Section 5306 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.5307.  CARBON DIOXIDE (CO2) SYSTEMS USED IN BEVERAGE DISPENSING
APPLICATIONS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Section 5307 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted in its
entirety, as amended by the California Building Standards Commission,
effective July 1, 2018, and as thereafter amended from time to time.



 



 



SEC. 57.5308.  COMPRESSED GASES NOT OTHERWISE REGULATED.



 



   Section 5308 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.5401.  GENERAL.



 



   Chapter 54 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted by
reference with the following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.5401.2.  PERMITS.



 



   Permits shall be required as set forth in Sections 57.105.6 and
57.105.7.



 



 



SEC. 57.5402.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   Section 5402 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.5403.  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.



 



   Section 5403 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.5403.3.  WARNING PLACARDS AND SIGNS.



 



   Wherever corrosive materials are stored or processed, signs with
letters not less than 3 inches high on contrasting background stating
“WARNING – CORROSIVE MATERIALS” shall be posted at any location within
a building and at any location within an area outside a building where such
materials are processed or stored, and at such other locations as may be
required by the Chief.



 



 



SEC. 57.5403.4.  WATER SHIELDS.



 



   Tanks containing corrosive materials which react with water shall be of
closed type, or shall be equipped with a lid which shall be kept closed
during intervals of non-use and at the end of each working shift.  A hood or
shield shall be provided over open tanks containing corrosive materials which
react with water, if located beneath automatic sprinklers.



 



 



SEC. 57.5403.5.  OPEN TANKS AND VATS.



 



   Open tanks and vats shall comply with Sections 57.5403.5.1 through
57.5403.5.3.



 



 



SEC. 57.5403.5.1.  HEAT OR AGITATE.



 



   Where steam is used to heat or agitate corrosive materials in tanks,
vats or pans or where compressed air is used to agitate such liquids and such
steam or air is supplied from a line in which the pressure is higher than
that which may be safely used to heat or agitate the liquids, a spring loaded
relief valve or other effective means shall be provided in the line to
prevent the delivery of excessive pressures of steam or air to the tanks.



 



 



SEC. 57.5403.5.2.  CONTROLS.



 



   Such tanks and vats in which corrosive materials are agitated by
compressed air, steam or mechanical means, or are heated, shall have controls
so located that any employee operating them will not be exposed to splashes
or boil-overs.  Where such location is impracticable, equivalent protection
shall be provided by means of shelter, and safe means of escape from shelter
shall be provided.



 



 



SEC. 57.5403.5.3.  GAUGES.



 



   Tubular gauges on stationary tanks, vats, or containers which contain
corrosive materials shall be shielded to prevent liquid spray from
endangering employees should the gauge break.  All such gauges shall be
guarded when exposed to the hazard of being broken by accidental impact and
in all cases when located less than 7 feet above or 3 feet laterally from
working levels or passageways.  All such gauges shall be provided with
valves which can be readily closed in case of breakage.  When practicable,
ball-check or other self-closing valves shall be used.



 



 



SEC. 57.5403.6.  DIKES AND DRAINS.



 



   Impounding basins or drainage facilities shall be provided where, in
the opinion of the Chief, accidental spillage or rupture of the container
might endanger lives or property.



 



 



SEC. 57.5403.7.  DILUTION AND NEUTRALIZATION.



 



   Areas used for the storage or processing of corrosive materials shall
be equipped with at least one of the following:



 



   1.   Water outlets, with attached hose, for adequate dilution and
flushing of spills to a safe location.



 



   2.   A covered and labeled container of absorbent-neutralizer
mixture suitable for the neutralization and absorption of corrosive materials
spills.  There shall not be less than one such container holding 50 pounds
of an absorbent- neutralizer mixture.



 



 



SEC. 57.5403.8.  SPECIAL EQUIPMENT.



 



   A deluge water-shower and eye flusher, with the water piping carrying a
pressure not exceeding 25 pounds, shall be provided near each area where
corrosive materials which may burn, irritate, or otherwise be harmful to
persons, are stored, processed, or used.  Shower and eye flusher shall be
connected to a potable water supply line.



 



 



SEC. 57.5403.9.  TANK CARS.



 



   Tank cars shall be unloaded as soon as possible after their arrival at
point of delivery and shall not be used as storage tanks.  Tank cars
containing corrosive materials shall not be allowed to remain at point of
delivery for more than 24 hours while being unloaded.  A qualified person
shall supervise the transfer operations.



 



 



SEC. 57.5404.  STORAGE.



 



   Section 5404 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.5404.3.  DRUM AND CARBOY STORAGE.



 



   The storage of corrosive materials in drums or carboys shall conform to
the following:



 



   1.   Drums or carboys shall not be stacked more than two containers
high unless on pallets.  Maximum height shall be 12 feet.



 



   2.   Unless otherwise specifically authorized by the Chief, drum or
carboys shall be stored in rows not more than two containers in width, or the
width of the pallet, if stored on pallets.  The aisles between such rows
shall be of sufficient width to permit inspection and removal of leaking
drums or carboys.



 



   3.   Drums and carboys shall be stored in an upright position with a
bung or plug uppermost.



 



   4.   Excess pressure which may have developed from high temperature
hydrogen formation in drums or carboys equipped with non-porous or
non-venting stoppers, plugs, or caps, shall be vented when containers are
placed in storage.  Drums shall be opened at frequent intervals to prevent
excessive pressure developing from hydrogen formation.



 



 



SEC. 57.5404.4.  TANK STORAGE.



 



   Tanks used for the storage of corrosive materials shall comply with the
following provisions:



 



   1.   Tanks shall be equipped with manual shut-off valves which may
be operated without going beneath the tank.



 



   2.   Tanks having a capacity in excess of 120 gallons and located
within or upon buildings shall be equipped with heat-actuated,
automatic-closing shutoff valves approved by the Chief.



 



   EXCEPTION:



 



   1.   The Chief may permit the use of a remote control valve which is
clearly labeled and located where easily accessible in the event of fire or
other emergency.



 



   2.   Tanks not resting upon the ground or floor and located within a
building or within 10 feet of a combustible structure, shall rest on supports
of at least one-hour fire-resistive construction.



 



   3.   When tanks are located outside of a building and are connected
to piping entering a building, conspicuously labeled emergency shutoff valves
shall be installed at a readily available place outside of the building.



 



 



SEC. 57.5405.  USE.



 



   Section 5405 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.5405.3.  WORKING SUPPLY.



 



   Corrosive materials stored in reserve in work areas shall be limited to
a sufficient supply for one eight-hour shift.



 



 



SEC. 57.5501.  GENERAL.



 



   Chapter 55 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted in its
entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.5502.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   Section 5502 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.5503.  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.



 



   Section 5503 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.5504.  STORAGE.



 



   Section 5504 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.5505.  USE AND HANDLING.



 



   Section 5505 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.5601.  GENERAL.



 



   Chapter 56 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted by
reference with the following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



   Section 5601 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.5601.9.  SOURCES OF IGNITION.



 



   Smoking, matches, open flames, spark-producing devices, and other
sources of ignition shall not be permitted inside of or within 50 feet of any
facility used for the storage of fireworks, smokeless powder, small arms
ammunition, or small arms primers.



 



 



SEC. 57.5601.10.  VEGETATION.



 



   Any open storage area around a portable magazine shall be kept clear of
brush, dried grass, weeds, and other combustible materials for a distance of
at least 50 feet.  Persons owning or having charge or control of the
magazine shall be responsible for maintaining required clearance.



 



 



SEC. 57.5601.11.  FIRE PROTECTION PORTABLE FIRE EXTINGUISHERS.



 



   Fire protection portable fire extinguishers shall be provided as
required by Chapter 9 of this article wherever fireworks, smokeless powder,
small arms ammunition or small arms primers are stored, manufactured, or
handled.



 



 



SEC. 57.5601.12.  WARNING PLACARDS AND SIGNS.



 



   Wherever fireworks, smokeless powder, small arms ammunition, or small
arms primers are stored in quantities over the exempt amounts as listed in
Table 57.105.6.14 of this article, warning placards designed and constructed
as specified in NFPA 704 shall be conspicuously posted in the following
locations:



 



   1.   At the entrance to any building where such materials are
stored, and at such other locations as may be required by the Chief.



 



   2.   At the main entrance to any area outside a building where such
materials are stored, or within such area, if no entrance is clearly defined.



 



   3.   At such locations as required by the Chief.



 



 



SEC. 57.5601.12.1.  POSTING.



 



   Wherever fireworks, smokeless powder, small arms ammunition, or small
arms primers are stored, signs with letters at least 3 inches high on a
contrasting background stating “FIREWORKS,” “SMOKELESS POWDER,”
“AMMUNITION,” and/or “SMALL ARMS PRIMERS” appropriately identifying
that type of material or materials involved, shall be conspicuously posted at
any location within a building and at any location within an area outside a
building where such materials are stored, and also at such other locations as
may be required by the Chief.



 



 



SEC. 57.5602.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   Section 5602 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.5603.  RECORDKEEPING AND REPORTING.



 



   Section 5603 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.  EXPLOSIVE MATERIALS STORAGE AND HANDLING.



 



   Section 5604 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.1.1.  BLASTING AGENTS GENERAL.



 



   The storage, processing, use or transportation of blasting agents shall
be regulated in the same manner as explosive materials.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.12.  GENERAL PROVISIONS.



 



   Storage of explosive materials shall be in accordance with Sections
57.5604.12.1.1 through 57.5604.12.8.3.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.12.1.  ENCLOSED AND ENCASED.



 



   No person shall possess, keep or store any explosive material which is
not completely enclosed and encased in a tight metal, wooden, or fiber
container, except at one of the following locations:



 



   1.   A plant for the processing of explosive materials.



 



   2.   A laboratory.



 



   3.   During blasting operations.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.12.2.  OUTSIDE OF, OR ABOUT, THE CONTAINERS.



 



   No person having any explosive materials in his or her possession or
control shall under any circumstances permit or allow any grains or particles
of explosives to be or remain on the outside of, or about, the containers in
which the explosive materials are kept.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.12.3.  STORAGE WHILE NOT BEING TRANSPORTED.



 



   Except while being transported, containers of explosive materials shall
be kept or stored in an explosive vault or in an explosives magazine.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.12.4.  CUT OFF OF ESCAPE.



 



   No explosive material shall be kept at any place where its accidental
discharge would cut off the escape of persons working therein.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.12.5.  STORAGE OF BLACK BLASTING POWDER.



 



   Black blasting powder shall not be stored with other Class “A”
explosive materials except in an explosives vault.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.12.6.  EXPLOSIVE VAULTS.



 



   Storage in explosive vaults shall be in accordance with Sections
57.5604.12.6.1 through 57.5604.12.6.10.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.12.6.1.  WHEN STORED.



 



   Explosive materials shall be stored in an explosives vault.



 



   EXCEPTION:  Explosive materials in temporary storage for immediate use
may be stored in a portable magazine.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.12.6.2.  MAXIMUM QUANTITY.



 



   Not more than 500 pounds of explosive materials shall be stored in any
one explosives vault.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.12.6.3.  CONSTRUCTION AND ISOLATION.



 



   Every explosives vault used for the storage of explosive materials
shall be constructed and isolated as set forth in Chapter 9 of the Los
Angeles Municipal Code (Building Code), and located in accordance with the
provisions of Chapter 1 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code (Zoning Code).



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.12.6.4.  SIGNAGE.



 



   A legible printed sign with the words “EXPLOSIVES VAULT –
DANGEROUS” in letters not less than 6 inches high shall be posted in
conspicuous locations on each side of the entrance to any aboveground
explosives vault and at the entrance to any underground explosives vault.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.12.6.5.  SOURCE OF IGNITION.



 



   No match, fire, or lighting device of any kind except an electric
flashlight or electric lantern shall at any time be taken into an explosives
vault.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.12.6.6.  OPENING OF PACKAGE OR CONTAINER.



 



   No package or container of explosives shall at any time be opened in
any explosives vault.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.12.6.7.  IGNITERS.



 



   Igniters, detonators, fuses, boosters, or other initiating devices
shall not be stored in the same explosives vault with explosive materials.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.12.6.8.  REMOVED FIRST.



 



   When explosive materials or initiating devices (igniters, detonators,
fuses, etc.) are removed from an explosives vault, those which have been
longest in the vault shall be removed first.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.12.6.9.  KEPT CLEAN AND FREE FROM RUBBISH.



 



   Explosives vaults shall be kept clean and free from rubbish.  They
shall not be used for the storage of any material except explosive materials.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.12.6.10.  KEYS OR COMBINATIONS.



 



   Keys or combinations for explosives vault locks shall be kept in a safe
place.  No unauthorized person shall unlock or remove explosive materials
from an explosives vault.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.12.7.  PORTABLE MAGAZINES.



 



   Storage in portable magazines shall be in accordance with Sections
57.5604.12.7.1 through 57.5604.12.7.7.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.12.7.1.  USE.



 



   Portable magazines may be used for the transportation or temporary
storage of explosive materials.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.12.7.2.  MAXIMUM MATERIAL.



 



   Not more than 100 pounds of explosive materials shall be stored or
transported in any one portable magazine.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.12.7.3.  MAGAZINE COLOR AND SIGNAGE.



 



   Portable magazines shall be painted red and shall bear lettering in
white, on all sides and top, at least 3 inches in height and having a 1/2
inch stroke which reads:  “EXPLOSIVES.”



 



   EXCEPTION:  Smaller lettering may be approved when the size of the
magazine prohibits the use of the larger lettering.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.12.7.4.  LOCATION.



 



   Portable magazines shall be so located and so protected as to prevent
accidental impact from vehicles or falling objects.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.12.7.5.  IGNITERS, DETONATORS, FUSES, BOOSTERS.



 



   Igniters, detonators, fuses, boosters, or other initiating devices
shall not be stored or transported in the same portable magazine with other
explosive materials.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.12.7.6.  NOT IN CONSTANT ATTENDANCE.



 



   Portable magazines left at locations where no persons is in constant
attendance shall be secured in place.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.12.7.7.  KEPT CLOSED AND SECURELY LOCKED.



 



   Except when necessarily opened for use by authorized persons, portable
magazines shall be kept closed and securely locked at all times.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.12.8.  BLACK SPORTING POWDER.



 



   The storage and display of black sporting powder shall be in accordance
with Sections 57.5604.12.8.1 through 57.5604.12.8.3.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.12.8.1.  CONTAINERS.



 



   Black sporting powder shall be stored in shipping containers approved
by the United States Department of Transportation (DOT).



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.12.8.2.  STORAGE REQUIREMENTS.



 



   Storage requirements are as follows:



 



   1.   Commercial stock of black sporting powder shall be stored
indoors.



 



   2.   Quantities of more than one pound and not more than 20 pounds
shall be stored in an approved portable magazine constructed in accordance
with L.A.F.D. Standard No. 40.



 



   3.   Quantities of more than 20 pounds and not more than 500 pounds
shall be stored inside an explosives vault that conforms to the requirements
of Chapter 9 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code (Building Code).



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.12.8.3.  PRODUCT DISPLAY.



 



   Display shall not be accessible to the public and shall be limited to
one pound maximum.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.13.  TRANSPORTATION OF EXPLOSIVE MATERIALS.



 



   The transportation of explosive materials in any amounts, unless
specifically exempted herein, shall be in compliance with Sections
57.5604.13.1 through 57.5604.13.9.2.5.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.13.1.  EXCEPTIONS.



 



   Specific exceptions to the transportation of explosive materials are
provided in Sections 57.5604.13.1.1 through 57.5604.13.1.8.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.13.1.1.  RAIL COMMON CARRIERS.



 



   Rail common carriers transporting dangerous cargo in compliance with
the provisions of the United States Department of Transportation; and
aircraft complying with applicable regulations of the Federal Aviation
Administration.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.13.1.2.  WITHIN A BUILDING.



 



   Transportation within the confines of a room, building or plant.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.13.1.3.  SIGNALING DEVICES.



 



   Signaling devices, such as flares, colored lights, fuses or other
devices customarily used by railroads, public carriers, aircraft, and motor
vehicles, or torpedoes customarily used by railroads for signaling purposes.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.13.1.1.4.  SMALL ARMS AMMUNITION.



 



   Small arms ammunition (Under .75 caliber).



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.13.1.5.  CHEMICALS IN THE FORM OF MEDICINE.



 



   Chemicals in the form of medicine, when such chemicals are securely
packed in containers not exceeding 4 ounces in one outside package, and are
prepared in accordance with U.S. Pharmacopoeia Standards.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.13.1.6.  U.S. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE, OR BY POLICE OR FIRE
DEPARTMENTS.



 



   Transportation of explosive materials by the U.S. Department of
Defense, or by Police or Fire Departments in the performance of duty.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.13.1.7.  COMMON CARRIERS.



 



   Common carriers for hire shall be permitted to transport not more than
100 pounds of smokeless powder packaged in original United States Department
of Transportation containers, not exceeding 20 pounds in any single package,
upon any public highway not designated in regulations amended by the
California Highway Patrol as a route for the transportation of explosives.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.13.1.8.  CALIFORNIA VEHICLE CODE AND THE CALIFORNIA HEALTH AND
SAFETY CODE.



 



   Any vehicle regularly or temporarily used in carrying or transporting
explosive materials shall, in addition to the above provisions, be regulated
by and comply with the applicable provisions of the California Vehicle Code
and the California Health and Safety Code.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.13.2.  PERMITS AND FEES.



 



   Permits and fees shall be required as set forth in Section 57.105.7 of
this article, except for vehicles operating under valid permit from the
California Highway Patrol, as required by the California Vehicle Code.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.13.3.  VEHICLES FOR TRANSPORTING EXPLOSIVES.



 



   The use of passenger vehicles for the transporting of explosive
materials is prohibited, except for the transporting of samples and other
small quantities not to exceed a total of 5 pounds.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.13.3.1.  VEHICLES USED FOR THE TRANSPORTATION.



 



   Vehicles used for the transportation of explosive materials shall be
equipped with springs, and have a solid floor with well-maintained interior
surfaces.  Such vehicle shall have a sturdy wooden body with wooden sides
and ends and with no exposed ferrous metal on the inside thereof where
explosive materials are carried, except that portable magazines may be
transported in vehicles having exposed metal parts.  The body shall be
completely enclosed, or shall be provided with a flame- resistant
moisture-resistant tarpaulin for total covering of all explosive materials
carried.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.13.4.  EQUIPMENT REQUIRED.



 



   Vehicles used for the transportation of explosive materials shall
comply with Sections 57.5604.13.4.1 through 57.5604.13.4.3.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.13.4.1.  SECURE LASHING.



 



   Facilities shall be provided for securely lashing or bracing the load
in place.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.13.4.2.  WARNING PLACARDS.



 



   Warning placards designed and constructed as specified by the United
States Department of Transportation shall be displayed on each side, and at
the front and rear of vehicles carrying explosive materials.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.13.4.3.  PORTABLE FIRE EXTINGUISHERS.



 



   At least two approved portable fire extinguishers shall be carried in
accessible locations on every vehicle.  One extinguisher shall have a Class
2A rating and the other shall have a Class l0B:C rating.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.13.5.  MAINTENANCE OF VEHICLES.



 



   Vehicles used for the transportation of explosive materials shall be
properly maintained, including brakes, headlights, warning devices, and other
parts thereof.  The chassis, motor, body, and all other parts of the vehicle
shall be clean and free from surplus oil and grease.  Gasoline tank and
piping shall be secure and without leaks. Electric wiring shall be completely
insulated and properly secured.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.13.6.  PROHIBITED ACTS.



 



   Acts listed in Sections 57.5604.13.6.1 through 57.5604.13.6.5 are
prohibited.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.13.6.1.  FLAME-PRODUCING DEVICE.



 



   No person shall carry matches, or any other flame-producing device,
firearms or loaded cartridges while on or near a vehicle loaded with
explosive materials.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.13.6.2.  TRAILERS.



 



   Explosives shall not be transported in a trailer, nor shall any trailer
be attached to any vehicle transporting explosives.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.13.6.3.  SMOKING OR USE OF MATCHES.



 



   No person in, upon, or near any vehicle carrying explosive materials
shall smoke or light any match or otherwise have or produce any fire.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.13.6.4.  BLASTING CAPS OR DETONATORS.



 



   Blasting caps or detonators shall not be transported on the same
vehicle with other explosives.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.13.6.5.  UNATTENDED VEHICLE.



 



   No motor vehicle transporting explosive materials shall be left
unattended upon any street or highway except in extreme emergency.  Such
vehicle shall be deemed attended whenever the person in charge thereof is in
or upon the vehicle, or is in a position to observe the vehicle at all times.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.13.7.  SPECIAL OPERATING REQUIREMENTS.



 



   Special operating requirements shall comply with Sections
57.5604.13.7.1 through 57.5604.13.7.6.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.13.7.1.  ROUTES OF TRAVEL.



 



   Every vehicle transporting explosive materials shall follow the routes
of travel designated in regulations amended by the California Highway Patrol
and pursuant to the California Vehicle Code.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.13.7.2.  HOURS OF TRANSPORTATION.



 



   Explosive materials shall not be transported during the hours of 7:00
a.m. to 9:00 a.m., nor 4:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.13.7.3.  PARKING OR STOPPING.



 



   Except in an emergency or as may be required by traffic regulations,
vehicles carrying explosive materials shall not be stopped or parked during
the course of transit until the point of delivery has been reached.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.13.7.4.  CONSTANT ATTENDANCE.



 



   All vehicles or group of vehicles transporting explosive materials
shall be attended by at least one competent person.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.13.7.5.  LOAD LIMIT.



 



   Explosive materials shall not be piled above the level of the
sideboards or tailgate of the body of the vehicle in which they are carried.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.13.7.6.  REPAIRS.



 



   Vehicles loaded with explosive materials shall not be taken into a
garage or other repair shop for repairs or storage.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.13.8.  EMERGENCY ACTION.



 



   In the event of an accident involving any vehicle transporting
explosives on any public street or highway, the driver of the vehicle or
other person in charge shall immediately take action to safeguard and warn
all persons who may be endangered thereby, and notify the Fire Department as
soon as possible.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.13.9.  PACKING AND LABELING.



 



   Packing and labeling shall comply with Sections 57.5604.13.9.1 through
57.5604.13.9.2.5.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.13.9.1.  LABELING.



 



   Every container of explosive materials offered for transportation shall
bear a label which complies with United States Department of Transportation
requirements.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.13.9.2.  PACKING.



 



   Packing shall comply with Sections 57.5604.13.9.2.1 through
57.5604.13.9.2.5.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.13.9.2.1.  REASONABLE CARE.



 



   Every carrier of explosive materials shall exercise reasonable care to
make certain that all materials are safely and securely packed.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.13.9.2.2.  UNSAFE CONTAINERS.



 



   No person shall transport, or offer for transportation, explosive
materials which are not in safe containers and securely packed.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.13.9.2.3.  STATEMENT SIGNED BY THE SHIPPER.



 



   With each cargo of explosive materials offered for shipment there shall
be a statement, signed by the shipper, representing that all applicable
requirements have been complied with.



 



   EXCEPTION:  This requirement shall not apply to cargo in the
shipper’s own vehicle.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.13.9.2.4.  CLOSED OR SEALED.



 



   No explosive materials shall be offered for shipment or transported
unless the containers are securely closed or sealed.



 



 



SEC. 57.5604.13.9.2.5.  OTHER MATERIALS.



 



   Other than the explosive materials themselves, which may have such
characteristics, there shall not be included any flammable liquids, acids,
corrosive liquids, oxidizers or combustible materials.



 



 



SEC. 57.5605.  MANUFACTURE, ASSEMBLY AND TESTING OF EXPLOSIVES, EXPLOSIVE
MATERIALS AND FIREWORKS.



 



   Section 5605 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.5605.10.  MANUFACTURING OF EXPLOSIVE MATERIALS PROHIBITED.



 



   The manufacture of explosive materials is prohibited.



 



 



SEC. 57.5605.10.1.  MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, ASSEMBLING, OR FABRICATING
ARTICLES.



 



   Every person manufacturing, processing, assembling, or fabricating
articles or devices containing explosive materials shall comply with the
provisions of this article, the Comprehensive Zoning Plan of the City of Los
Angeles, the Los Angeles Building Code, the Los Angeles Municipal Code, and
all other applicable laws.



 



 



SEC. 57.5605.10.2.  MANUFACTURE OF ARTICLES.



 



   Every person manufacturing, processing, assembling, or fabricating
articles containing explosive materials shall comply with all of the
provisions of Sections 57.5605.10.2.1 through 57.5605.10.2.4.



 



 



SEC. 57.5605.10.2.1.  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.



 



   1.   No unit or separate article of any manufactured or assembled
explosive material shall contain more than one-half pound of explosive
material.



 



   2.   Emergency procedures shall be formulated for each plant and
building.  Fire and disaster drills shall be conducted and records of such
drills kept at the plant office.



 



   3.   Employees who handle explosive materials shall be trained in
the hazards of the materials involved and processes in which they are to
engage, and shall be made familiar with the rules governing such materials
and processes.



 



   4.   Smoking is prohibited in locations where explosive materials
are present.  Matches, lighters, smoking material and other sources of
ignition are not permitted in such locations.



 



   5.   Instructions for operators shall be posted at or near each
working area.  Such instructions shall include amounts of explosive
materials permissible at the working area; number of persons permitted in the
area at one time; bonding of metal containers before pouring out contents;
locking of machinery in “off” position before working on it; cleaning
agents to be used (if any); and any other precautions deemed necessary due to
characteristics of the materials.



 



   6.   The quantity of explosive materials present in a work room
shall not exceed the amount necessary for current operations and in no case
shall the amount exceed a one-half day supply of explosive materials. 
Provided, however, if in the opinion of the Chief a one-half day supply of
explosive materials would introduce an undue hazard, the maximum quantity may
be limited to lesser amounts.



 



   7.   The maximum amount of explosive materials contained at any one
time in any one building used for the manufacture or assembly of products
utilizing or containing explosive materials shall be limited to 80 pounds,
not more than 20 pounds of which shall be contained in the building in other
than partially completed or completed product units.



 



   8.   The maximum permissible quantities of explosive materials
allowed by Subdivisions 6 and 7 of Section 57.5605.10.2.1 of this section
shall be clearly indicated with suitable signs with letters not less than 3
inches high.  No person shall allow the amount of explosive materials in any
one room or building to exceed the amount set forth upon the posted sign for
that room or building.



 



   9.   Explosive materials shall be kept in covered containers except
when being used or processed.



 



   10.   Waste receptacles with tight fitting covers shall be provided
at or just outside of each working area for the disposal of waste material,
cleaning rags, and other combustible waste and debris.  Waste receptacles
shall be emptied and cleaned as often as necessary but at least at the end of
each shift or the end of each day.



 



   11.   Spilled or dropped explosives shall be cleaned up at once
before other operations are continued.  Damaged or waste explosive
materials, shipping containers, cleaning rags, and other materials
contaminated with explosive materials shall be disposed of in accordance with
the recommended practices established by the manufacturer of the explosive
materials used.



 



 



SEC. 57.5605.10.2.2.  PROCESSING SAFEGUARDS.



 



   1.   Work areas shall be separated by distances, barriers, or other
means so that a fire at one area will not ignite material at another area.



 



   2.   Ventilation and dust-control equipment shall be of such type
and so installed and operated as not to endanger employees by possible
ignition of explosives.  Ducts shall be grounded and as short and straight
as possible with no capped outlets, pockets, or other dead-end spaces where
explosives might accumulate.



 



   3.   Benches and other fixtures shall be of noncombustible
materials; provided, however, that static proof (conductive) coverings may be
used.



 



   4.   Hydraulic and pneumatic presses, including hand jacks, shall be
provided with pressure relief valves so arranged and set that material in
process will not be subjected to pressures likely to cause it to explode. 
Dies and plugged press equipment shall not be cleared by striking blows that
may cause the material to detonate or burn.



 



   5.   Mechanical screening, mixing, or blending operations involving
explosive materials shall only be carried on in isolated areas or buildings
used exclusively for such purposes, and, wherever practicable, such
operations shall be carried on with no personnel present during the period
the machinery is operating.  At least one set of power controls shall be
remotely located at a safe point from the screening, mixing, or blending
area.  If the operation requires the presence of employees, only the least
practicable number of employees shall be present, except that additional
employees may be present for purposes of instruction.



 



   6.   Means shall be provided whereby accumulated static electricity
is removed from hand trucks, buggies, and similar devices before they enter a
building or work area.



 



   7.   Wet processes shall be used wherever practicable in mixing
explosive materials.



 



   8.   Maintenance or repair work on machines shall not be done while
explosive materials are present in a building or work area; provided,
however, that this shall not prohibit minor adjustments or repairs where it
would not be practicable to clear the building or work area, nor shall it
prohibit emergency maintenance necessary to secure immediate safety.



 



   9.   Suitable exterior barricades, either natural or artificial,
shall be provided on pressure relief sides of building.  Due consideration
shall be given to the effects of probable flying missiles with particular
attention to the safety of personnel.



 



 



SEC. 57.5605.10.2.3.  TEST AREAS.



 



   1.   Areas where explosive materials are detonated or burned shall
be fenced and posted with adequate warning signs.



 



   2.   Audible and visible warning devices shall be utilized to give
suitable warning to nearby personnel before detonating or burning any
explosive materials.



 



   3.   When tests are being conducted or explosive materials are being
detonated or burned for any purpose, only authorized personnel shall be
permitted within the test area enclosure.



 



 



SEC. 57.5605.10.2.4.  SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS.



 



   All operations or activity on a site within which explosive materials
are used, stored, or handled shall be subject to such further additional or
more restrictive requirements or conditions as the Department may determine;
these may include requirements or conditions as to arrangements within
buildings, including requirements for protective structures or devices, rules
and regulations respecting smoking, fires, combustion of any kind, amounts
and arrangements of material number and qualifications of employees or other
persons on the premises, or any other condition, requirement, rule, or
regulation determined by the Department to be necessary or appropriate for
the protection of persons or property.  Any such determination may be
modified, amended, or enlarged, or superseded as the Department may at any
time determine.  The effective date and time of each determination shall be
stated therein and any determination which effects a change in one previously
fixed may be effective in 24 hours after service thereof, or later, as
allowed by the Department.  Failure to comply with or obey any determination
shall result in the revocation of any permit held by the person to whom such
determination is addressed.



 



 



SEC. 57.5606.  SMALL ARMS AMMUNITION AND SMALL ARMS AMMUNITION COMPONENTS.



 



   Section 5606 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.5606.5.1.1.1.  CONTAINERS.



 



   All smokeless powder shall be stored in shipping containers approved by
the United States Department of Transportation.



 



 



SEC. 57.5606.5.1.1.2.  DISPLAY OF SMOKELESS POWDER.



 



   Display of smokeless powder shall be limited to one pound of each type
and shall not be accessible to the public.  Total quantity of smokeless
powder not in an approved portable magazine shall be limited to 20 pounds.



 



 



SEC. 57.5606.5.2.1.1.1. [AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEM.]



 



   1.1.   The building shall be equipped throughout with an automatic
sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 57.903.3.1.1.



 



 



SEC. 57.5606.5.2.3.1.1.   [SMALL ARMS PRIMERS.]



 



   1.1.   Small arms primers shall be separated from materials
classified as combustible liquids, flammable liquids, flammable solids and
oxidizing materials by a distance of 25 feet (7630 mm) by a fire partition
having a fire resistive rating of one hour.  Small arms primers shall be
separated from smokeless powder or other explosives by a minimum distance of
25 feet or by a one-hour fire resistive separation.



 



 



SEC. 57.5606.5.3.  SMALL ARMS PRIMERS.



 



   Small arms primers shall not be transported or stored except in the
original shipping containers approved by the United States Department of
Transportation.  Commercial stock of small arms primers not in the original
shipping containers shall be stored in a portable magazine constructed in
accordance with L.A.F.D. Standard No. 40.



 



 



SEC. 57.5606.6.  SMALL ARMS AMMUNITION.



 



   In addition to the applicable requirements of Section 57.5606, Sections
57.5606.6.1 through 57.5606.6.4 shall apply.



 



 



SEC. 57.5606.6.1.  INCENDIARY OR SIGNALING AMMUNITION.



 



   No person shall discharge any ammunition which contains, in addition to
the primer and explosive charge provided for necessary propulsion of the
projectile, any explosive, flammable or signaling substance which is capable
of igniting any material, except by written permission of the Chief.



 



 



SEC. 57.5606.6.2.  STORAGE OF SMALL ARMS AMMUNITION.



 



   Storage of small arms ammunition shall conform to the following
provisions:



 



   1.   Amounts not to exceed 500 pounds may be stored in any safe and
secured location.



 



   2.   Amounts in excess of 500 pounds shall be stored in a location
and in a manner approved by the Chief.



 



   3.   Not more than 1,000 pounds may be stored in a basement equipped
with automatic sprinklers.



 



   4.   Small arms ammunition in excess of 5,000 pounds shall be stored
in a room complying with Section 57.5608.3.2 for fireworks storage.



 



 



SEC. 57.5606.6.3.  SEPARATION.



 



   Small arms ammunition shall be separated from flammable liquids,
flammable solids, and oxidizing materials by a one- hour fire resistive
separation or by a distance of 25 feet.



 



 



SEC. 57.5606.6.4.  APPROVAL.



 



   Small arms ammunition shall not be stored with Division 1.1, Division
1.2, or Division 1.3 explosives unless the storage facility is approved by
the Chief.



 



 



SEC. 57.5607.  BLASTING.



 



   Section 5607 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.5607.16.  ADDITIONAL BLASTING REQUIREMENTS.



 



   Blasting operations shall be in compliance with Sections 57.5607.16.1
through 57.5607.16.5.1.



 



 



SEC. 57.5607.16.1.  PERMIT REQUIRED.



 



   No person shall use any explosive materials for the purpose of blasting
unless a valid permit has been issued therefore as set forth in Section
57.105.7 of this article, except members of the Police or Fire Departments
acting within their official capacity and in the proper performance of their
duties.



 



 



SEC. 57.5607.16.2.  CERTIFICATE OF FITNESS REQUIRED.



 



   No blasting operation requiring a permit under this article shall be
performed except under the direct supervision of a Blasting Operator holding
a valid Certificate of Fitness authorizing such person to conduct and
supervise blasting operations within the City of Los Angeles.



 



 



SEC. 57.5607.16.3.  BLASTING GENERAL PRECAUTIONS.



 



   General precautions for blasting operation shall comply with Sections
57.5607.16.3.1 through 57.5607.16.3.9.



 



 



SEC. 57.5607.16.3.1.  SOURCE OF IGNITION.



 



   There shall be no smoking, open lights, or fire of any kind or radio
transmission in or near any posted area where explosive materials are being
handled.  No source of ignition, except necessary means to light fuses or
fire electric detonators, shall be permitted in any posted area containing
loaded holes.



 



 



SEC. 57.5607.16.3.2.  STORAGE.



 



   Explosive materials shall be stored in an explosive magazine until such
time as they are required for use.



 



 



SEC. 57.5607.16.3.3.  OPENING TOOLS.



 



   No explosive material container shall be opened with metallic tools,
except that knives, metallic slitters, or similar tools may be used to open
cardboard cartons containing explosive materials.



 



 



SEC. 57.5607.16.3.4.  RUBBISH.



 



   Paper cartons, sawdust, and other rubbish from explosive material
containers shall be removed to a safe place and burned.



 



 



SEC. 57.5607.16.3.5.  ELECTRIC LIGHTS OR POWER CIRCUITS.



 



   Explosive materials shall not be placed or left within 25 feet of any
electric light or power circuit except during transportation.



 



 



SEC. 57.5607.16.3.6.  ELECTRICAL STORMS.



 



   No blasting or preparation for blasting shall be done during the
approach or progress of an electrical storm.



 



 



SEC. 57.5607.16.3.7.  BLASTING OPERATOR NOTIFICATION OF BLASTING.



 



   The Blasting Operator shall set the time for all blasting.  Before
firing any charge, the Blasting Operator shall give adequate warning in all
directions and shall make sure that all persons are out of the blasting
area.  No person shall return to the blasting area until permitted to do so
by the Blasting Operator, as announced by audible or visual signal.



 



 



SEC. 57.5607.16.3.8.  BLASTING IN PROXIMITY OF LOADED HOLE.



 



   No hole for blasting shall be fired within 100 feet of any other hole
which is loaded and not intended to be fired at the same time.



 



 



SEC. 57.5607.16.3.9.  MATERIALS LEFT OVER AFTER LOADING.



 



   All detonators, fuses and explosive materials left over after loading
operations are completed shall be promptly returned to their explosive
magazines.



 



 



SEC. 57.5607.16.4.  LOADING EXPLOSIVE MATERIALS.



 



   General loading explosive materials for blasting operations shall
comply with Sections 57.5607.16.4.1 through 57.5607.16.4.15.



 



 



SEC. 57.5607.16.4.1.  MACHINES AND METAL TOOLS.



 



   Machines and all metal tools not used for loading explosive materials
into bore holes shall be removed from the immediate location of bore holes
before explosive materials are delivered.



 



 



SEC. 57.5607.16.4.2.  NUMBER OF PERSONS PRESENT.



 



   Blasting operations shall be carried on with the smallest practical
number of persons present and no one but authorized personnel shall be
allowed in the blast area.



 



 



SEC. 57.5607.16.4.3.  AMOUNT ESTIMATED BY THE BLASTING OPERATOR.



 



   Under no circumstances shall the amount of explosive materials taken
into a blast area exceed the amount estimated by the Blasting Operator as
necessary for the blast.



 



 



SEC. 57.5607.16.4.4.  STACKING OF EXPLOSIVE MATERIALS.



 



   Explosive materials shall be stacked in piles not less than 25 feet
from the nearest holes being loaded and so spaced and distributed as to
prevent propagation of an explosion between any two piles in the event of a
premature detonation in any portion of the blast area.



 



 



SEC. 57.5607.16.4.5.  EXPLOSIVE MATERIALS CONTAINERS.



 



   The explosive materials containers, if any, shall be opened at the pile
and carried up to the hole one case or unit at a time for immediate loading,
or placed at a loading station not less than 6 feet from the hole, except
that not more than 100 pounds of explosive materials shall be allowed at the
loading station at any one time.



 



 



SEC. 57.5607.16.4.6.  DRILLING AND LOADING.



 



   When drilling and loading are being performed simultaneously in the
same area, the two operations shall be separated as widely as practicable and
in no case shall drilling be conducted closer to a loaded hole than a
distance equal to the deepest blast hole in the area.



 



 



SEC. 57.5607.16.4.7.  POWER LINES AND PORTABLE ELECTRIC CABLES.



 



   Power lines and portable electric cables to equipment shall be kept a
safe distance away from explosive materials and loaded holes.  Cables within
100 feet of any hole which is loaded or being loaded shall be de-energized.



 



 



SEC. 57.5607.16.4.8.  DRILL HOLES.



 



   All drill holes shall be checked with a loading stick, dolly, or mirror
before loading operations are started to make sure the hole is opened for the
full depth.



 



 



SEC. 57.5607.16.4.9.  DETONATORS USED IN FIRING BLASTS.



 



   Detonators, when used in firing blasts, shall have a strength of at
least a number six.



 



 



SEC. 57.5607.16.4.10.  DETONATORS ENCASED.



 



   The detonators shall be encased in explosive materials when inserted
into a drill hole, unless a safety primer is used.



 



 



SEC. 57.5607.16.4.11.  FUNNEL.



 



   A funnel made of wood, nonferrous metal, or heavy paper shall be used
to load free-flowing or bulk explosive materials down a hole.  The explosive
material shall be poured directly from its container through the funnel into
the hole.



 



 



SEC. 57.5607.16.4.12.  WOODEN RODS USED FOR TAMPING.



 



   Only wooden rods shall be used for tamping explosive materials and such
rods shall have no metal tips or parts other than non-ferrous metal ferrules
for extending the length of the wooden rod.  The end of the tamping stick
shall be kept square and of such minimum diameter that the tamping stick will
not by-pass the cartridges in the hole.



 



 



SEC. 57.5607.16.4.13.  TAMPING SHALL BE BY PRESSURE OR LIGHT BLOWS.



 



   When loading explosive materials in a bore hole, tamping shall be by
pressure or light blows only and never by excessive ramming.



 



 



SEC. 57.5607.16.4.14.  STEMMED TO THE COLLAR.



 



   All blast holes shall be stemmed to the collar or to a point to
sufficiently confine the charge and minimize the chance of injury to
personnel by flying material.



 



 



SEC. 57.5607.16.4.15.  MECHANICAL TAMPING DEVICES.



 



   Mechanical tamping devices shall be so constructed that no metal parts
will enter the bore hole unless such parts are so effectively insulated that
no metal can come in contact with the explosive materiel being tamped.



 



 



SEC. 57.5607.16.5.  BLASTING INSPECTION.



 



   The Chief shall inspect the proposed blasting operation prior to the
detonation of any explosive charge to be used in blasting.  No detonation
shall be performed until the proposed blasting operation has been inspected
and approved by the Chief.



 



 



SEC. 57.5607.16.5.1.  NOTIFICATION TO DEPARTMENT OF DETONATION TIME.



 



   Every person in charge of a blasting operation shall notify the
Department of the estimated time of detonation.  Such notification shall be
made not later than 4:00 p.m. of the last working day prior to the proposed
date of detonation, and in no case shall notification be made less than 24
hours prior to the estimated time of detonation.



 



 



SEC. 57.5608.  FIREWORKS DISPLAY.



 



   Section 5608 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.5608.1.1.1.  ADDITIONAL GENERAL.



 



   In addition to the requirements set forth in Section 57.5608.1 for
outdoor fireworks displays, use of pyrotechnics before a proximate audience
and pyrotechnic special effects in theatrical and group entertainment
productions, the provisions of Chapter 56 shall also apply and be required.



 



 



SEC. 57.5608.1.1.2.  ADDITIONAL SCOPE.



 



   In addition to the requirements set forth in Section 57.5608.1.1 for
fireworks and temporary storage use and handling of pyrotechnic special
effects material used in motion pictures, television and theatrical and group
entertainment productions, the provisions of Chapter 56 shall also apply and
be required.



 



 



SEC. 57.5608.1.2.  FIREWORKS.



 



   It shall be unlawful for any person to use, give, possess, sell, or
discharge any fireworks in the City of Los Angeles.



 



   EXCEPTION:  Patriotic, civic, and religious organizations may conduct
fireworks displays under permit by the Chief and in accordance with the
provisions of the Health and Safety Code of the State of California.



 



 



SEC. 57.5608.1.2.1.  CONTROL AND SUPERVISION.



 



   Every display shall be under the control and supervision of a
Pyrotechnic Operator licensed by the State Fire Marshal and shall be
conducted under conditions as required by the Chief.  The fireworks in
public displays shall be located, discharged and of such character so as not
to be hazardous to persons or property.



 



 



SEC. 57.5608.1.2.2.  FIREWORKS DISPLAY – ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENT.



 



   Every applicant for a permit to conduct a fireworks display shall
submit evidence of having a Fireworks Public Display License or a Fireworks
General Public Display License granted by the State Fire Marshal.



 



 



SEC. 57.5609.  TEMPORARY STORAGE OF FIREWORKS.



 



   Section 5609 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.5609.2.  SHIPPING FIREWORKS.



 



   Fireworks may be shipped, delivered or sold for delivery to points
outside this City where the sale or use thereof is lawful, by any wholesaler,
retailer, jobber, warehousemen, or a manufacturer, or manufactured for such
sale or distribution only, or kept in storage in a safe and secure place
pending the lawful disposal thereof; but no fireworks shall be handled,
manufactured or stored as set forth herein without the express written
approval of the Chief.  Such approval shall be revocable for cause and shall
be granted only upon application therefor, setting forth a description of the
place of storage or manufacture and such other information as the Chief shall
require.



 



 



SEC. 57.5609.3.  STORAGE.



 



   Prior to shipping, legal display fireworks shall be stored in
accordance with Sections 57.5609.3.1 through 57.5609.3.2.



 



 



SEC. 57.5609.3.1.  STORAGE IN PORTABLE MAGAZINES.



 



   A maximum of 500 pounds of fireworks may be stored in approved portable
magazines complying with the provisions of L.A.F.D. Standard No. 40 and in a
location approved by the Chief.



 



 



SEC. 57.5609.3.2.  STORAGE IN EXPLOSIVE ROOMS.



 



   Quantities of fireworks in excess of 500 pounds shall be stored in a
room of one-hour fire-resistive construction.  Door openings therein shall
be protected by one-hour fire assemblies.  Such rooms shall be equipped with
an automatic sprinkler system.



 



 



SEC. 57.5610.  EXPERIMENTAL ROCKETS/UNLIMITED.



 



   Section 5610 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.5611.  MODEL ROCKETS.



 



   Section 5611 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.5612.  EXPERIMENTAL HIGH POWER ROCKETS AND MOTORS.



 



   Section 5612 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.5613.  EMERGENCY SIGNALING DEVICES.



 



   Section 5613 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.5701.  GENERAL.



 



   Chapter 57 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted by
reference with the following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.5702.  DEFINITIONS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Section 5702 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted in its
entirety, as amended by the California Building Standards Commission,
effective July 1, 2018, and as thereafter amended from time to time.



 



 



SEC. 57.5703.  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Section 5703 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted in its
entirety, as amended by the California Building Standards Commission,
effective July 1, 2018, and as thereafter amended from time to time, with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.5703.7.  TRANSPORTING CLASS I OR II LIQUIDS WITHIN BUILDINGS.



 



   Transportation of Class I or II liquids from storage rooms in buildings
shall be in approved containers not exceeding 60 gallon capacity.  The
handling or use of Class I or II liquids in open containers is prohibited.



 



   EXCEPTION:  The above restrictions shall not apply to locations
conforming to Group H-1 and H-2 Occupancy requirements.



 



 



SEC. 57.5703.8.  SPECIAL LIMITATIONS.



 



   The Chief may impose reductions or prohibitions on the amounts of
flammable or combustible liquids in storage or use when he finds that an
unusual risk is involved by reason of undue hazards to life, a hazardous
storage or operation, unusual exposure, or multiple occupancy.



 



 



SEC. 57.5703.9.  OTHER EMERGENCY FEATURES.



 



   For every building or portion of a building where flammable or
combustible liquids are used, processed, or stored in such a manner as to
give rise to undue hazard of fire or explosion from flammable liquids or
vapors, the Department may require that such areas be provided with approved
local exhaust ventilation or general room ventilation, explosion venting,
emergency drains, curbs, warning systems, or approved fire extinguishing
systems.



 



 



SEC. 57.5704.  STORAGE.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Section 5704 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted in its
entirety, as amended by the California Building Standards Commission,
effective July 1, 2018, and as thereafter amended from time to time, with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.5704.3.1.2.  MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE CONTAINER SIZE.



 



   The maximum allowable size of containers, intermediate bulk containers,
and portable tanks shall be in accordance with Table 57.5704.3.1.2.



 



TABLE 57.5704.3.1.2
MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE CONTAINER SIZE



 



 




Type

 

Flammable Liquids

 

Combustible Liquids




Class IA

 

Class IB

 

Class IC

 

Class II

 

Class III




Glass

 

NP

 

1 L



(1.05 qt)

 

5 L



(1.3 gal)

 

5 L



(1.3 gal)

 

20 L



(5.3 gal)




Metal (other than drums) or approved plastic

 

5 L



(1.3 gal)

 

20 L



(5.3 gal)

 

20 L



(5.3 gal)

 

20 L



(5.3 gal)

 

20 L



(5.3 gal)




Safety cans

 

10 L



(2.6 gal)

 

20 L



(5.3 gal)

 

20 L



(5.3 gal)

 

20 L



(5.3 gal)

 

20 L



(5.3 gal)




Metal drum



(e.g., UN1A1 or 1A2)

 

450 L



(119 gal)

 

450 L



(119 gal)

 

450 L



(119 gal)

 

450 L



(119 gal)

 

450 L



(119 gal)




Approved metal portable tanks and IBCs

 

3000 L



(793 gal)

 

3000 L



(793 gal)

 

3000 L



(793 gal)

 

3000 L



(793 gal)

 

3000 L



(793 gal)




Rigid plastic IBCs (UN31H1 or 31H2) and composite IBCs with rigid inner
receptacle (UN31HZ1)

 

NP

 

NP

 

NP

 

3000 L



(793 gal)

 

3000 L



(793 gal)




Composite IBCs with flexible inner receptacle (UN31HZ2) and flexible IBCs
(UN13H, UN13L, and UN13M)

 

NP

 

NP

 

NP

 

NP

 

NP




Bag-in-Box Nonbulk

 

NP

 

NP

 

NP

 

NP

 

NP




Polyethylene UN 1H1, or as authorized by DOT exemption

 

5 L



(1.3 gal)

 

20 L



(5.3 gal) t

 

20 L



(5.3 gal) t

 

450 L



(119 gal)

 

450 L



(119 gal)




Fiber drum NMFC or UFC Type 2ZA; Types 3A, 3B-H, or 3B-L; or Type 4A

 

NP

 

NP

 

NP

 

450 L



(119 gal)

 

450 L



(119 gal)





 



Note: NP - Not permitted



t For Class 1B and 1C water-miscible liquids, the maximum allowable size of
plastic container is 230 L (60 gal), if stored and protected in accordance
with NFPA 30 table 6.8.2(g)



 



 



SEC. 57.5704.3.5.1.  BASEMENT STORAGE.



 



   Class I liquids shall not be stored in basements.  Class II and IIIA
liquids shall be allowed to be stored in basements, provided that automatic
suppression and other fire protection are provided in accordance with Chapter
9.



 



 



SEC. 57.5704.5.  SEPARATION OF STORAGE.



 



   Manufacturing, processing, or any other use of Class I, II, or IIIA
flammable or combustible liquids shall not be carried on in the same room or
area where Class I, II, or IIIA flammable or combustible liquids are stored.



 



 



SEC. 57.5705.  DISPENSING, USE, MIXING AND HANDLING.



 



   Section 5705 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.5705.6.  CLASS I OR II LIQUIDS AT POINT OF USE.



 



   The amount of flammable or combustible liquids maintained for use in
any operating or processing area shall not exceed a supply sufficient for one
working day, unless a greater quantity is permitted by Special Permit issued
by the Department pursuant to Section 57.105.8 of this article.



 



 



SEC. 57.5705.6.1.  SAFETY CANS.



 



   Safety cans shall be used for the handling or temporary storage of
Class I or II liquids in any operating or processing area, unless otherwise
approved by the Department.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.  SPECIAL OPERATIONS.



 



   Section 5706 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.3.1.4.  BULK DISTRIBUTION STATIONS.



 



   The center of the oil well casing shall not be closer than 200 feet
from every loading rack located on a bulk distributing station.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.3.1.5.  HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.



 



   The center of the oil well casing shall not be closer than 200 feet
from every tank or vessel containing hazardous materials, except tanks used
exclusively for production and shipping in connection with such oil wells.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.3.1.6.  OPERATING UNIT DEFINED.



 



   Operating Unit shall be defined as:  All of the contiguous lands lying
within any portion of the City in which drilling is permitted, and which
lands are included in the terms of the lease, permit or other agreement
pursuant to which the well in question is drilled or authorized to be
drilled, whether such lands are in one ownership or in different ownerships,
and whether such lands are described in said lease, permit or agreement as
one parcel or as several parcels.  If there are separate units of
non-contiguous lands containing at least one net acre included in the terms
of such lease, permit, or agreement, each such unit shall be deemed a
separate Operating Unit.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.3.1.6.1.  OPERATING UNIT.



 



   Every Operating Unit shall consist of at least one acre of contiguous
land.  Parcels of land interrupted by a street shall not be deemed to be
contiguous.  Where a parcel of land consists of less than one net acre and
is completely surrounded by streets, and where all other provisions of this
article with reference to location of oil wells can be complied with, such
parcel of land may be deemed an Operating Unit and one oil well permitted
thereon.  Only one oil well shall be drilled for each net acre in the
Operating Unit.



 



   NOTE:  For the purposes of this section, an alley shall not be
included in the definition of “Street.”



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.3.7.1.  IDENTIFICATION SIGNS.



 



   An approved legible sign bearing the name of the oil well, the operator
thereof, and his emergency telephone number shall be located and maintained
on every oil well in a place where it will be fully visible.  There shall
also be located and maintained on every oil well a sign or plate as may be
required by the Chief, showing such registration serial number as may be
assigned to the oil well by the Chief.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.3.9.  OIL WELL CELLARS.



 



   Oil well cellars shall be provided and comply with Sections
57.5706.3.9.1 through 57.5706.3.9.4.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.3.9.1.  CONSTRUCTION.



 



   Oil well cellars shall be provided and shall be constructed of
noncombustible material.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.3.9.2.  TWO OR MORE.



 



   When two or more oil wells share a common cellar, such cellar shall be
provided with a fire protection system approved by the Chief.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.3.9.3.  STAIRS AND LADDERS.



 



   Cellars more than five feet below grade shall be provided with
noncombustible stairs or ladders.  Distance of travel to a stair or ladder
shall not be more than 25 feet. Aisles shall be a minimum of 3 feet in width
to all ladders or stairs.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.3.9.4.  GUARDRAILS.



 



   Cellars shall be safeguarded by noncombustible guardrails not less than
30 inches above grade or other adequate barrier approved by the Chief.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.3.10.  RUBBISH, JUNK, AND COMBUSTIBLE WASTE.



 



   No person shall store or accumulate any dry weeds, grass, rubbish, or
other combustible materials or any waste, rubbish, or junk whether
combustible or not, within a radius of 50 feet from any oil well, derrick or
tank, or any building, machinery, or equipment used in the development,
production, or storage of petroleum.  When any oil well is placed on
production, all combustible materials of any kind, except those necessary for
the production or operation, shall be removed.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.3.11.  EXTRAORDINARY FIRE HAZARD.



 



   When an extraordinary fire hazard exists in relation to the operation
of any oil well or its attendant equipment and appurtenances, all operations
incidental to the drilling for, production, treating, or storage of Class I,
II, and IIIA liquids shall cease until it is safe to resume such
operations.  Under such conditions, the Chief may require the removal of
Class I, II, and IIIA liquids which constitute such a hazard from any tank or
ground depression to a safe location.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.3.12.  FIRE PROTECTION FOR OIL WELLS.



 



   At all times when conducting drilling operations at an oil well, there
shall be available within 100 feet of such well not less than two portable
fire extinguishers, each having a 20B:C classification in accordance with
Section 57.906 of this article.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.3.13.  SECURITY FENCES.



 



   No person owning or having possession or control of any oil well within
the City shall maintain or allow to exist thereon any moving parts or
machinery-in-use or intended to be used at such oil well, unless such
machinery or moving parts are securely enclosed by an adequate noncombustible
ventilated type security fence, screen, or housing sufficient to prevent the
entry of unauthorized persons.  Such security fence or screen shall be not
less than 5 feet high, and if equipped with gates, such gates must not be
less than 5 feet high and equipped with adequate hardware to prevent the
entry of unauthorized persons.  A single adequate security fence, screen, or
housing may be used to enclose more than one oil well.  Security fences,
screens, or housings required by this subsection shall be approved by the
Chief.



 



   EXCEPTION:  This subsection shall not apply if a competent person is
in constant attendance, 24 hours a day, at each oil well.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.3.14.  COLLISION BARRIERS.



 



   Where wells are located in an area accessible to vehicular traffic, in
addition to a security fence there shall be a collision barrier.  The
collision barrier shall be constructed of posts spaced a maximum of 4 feet on
center and shall be set in concrete or in steel sleeves which are encased in
concrete.  Such posts shall be at least 5 feet in length, with 2 feet below
ground and shall not be less than 4-inch diameter, Schedule 40 iron pipe
filled with concrete.  Collision barriers shall be located outside the
security fence and shall not be less than 10 feet from the center of the oil
well casing.



 



   EXCEPTION:  The Chief may approve the omission of all or part of both
the security fence and collision barrier when, by such omission, the well
head and appurtenances will not be exposed to damage from moving vehicles,
other heavy objects, or will not be accessible to any unauthorized persons. 
The terms of any such approval shall be in writing and shall become a
condition of the permit authorizing the installation, maintenance, and use of
such well head and appurtenances.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.3.15.  SAFEGUARDING NON-OPERATING OIL WELLS.



 



   Every oil well which has not been operated or which has ceased to
produce petroleum or natural gas for a continuous period of 90 days shall be
safeguarded in compliance with the provisions of Sections 57.5706.3.15.1
through 57.5706.3.15.3.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.3.15.1.  STORAGE.



 



   All storage of material, whether combustible or not, shall be removed
from the oil well site.  The provisions of this subsection shall not apply
to approved tanks, boilers, pumps, piping, valves, or other equipment,
machinery, and facilities which are connected together in a fixed position
and form the operating equipment and arrangement for normal oil production
procedure.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.3.15.2.  GAS FREE.



 



   Above ground tanks, pipe line, oil and gas separators, dehydrating
plants, or pump suction pits, and other appurtenant equipment shall be freed
of flammable vapors or otherwise rendered safe by a qualified person.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.3.15.3.  WELL HEAD.



 



   Every such oil well shall be properly equipped with a head fitting and
shut-off valve capable of withstanding any pressure, which may develop in the
well.  The shut-off valve shall be maintained in a closed position and
secured against unauthorized tampering.  Adequate provision shall be
provided to allow the installation of a pressure gauge in connection with
vapor space of the well.



 



   EXCEPTIONS:



 



   1.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to oil wells
which are under regular surveillance or the substantial equivalent thereto,
such as by reason of drilling or producing of wells or similar operational
activities on the same premises.



 



   2.   For the purpose of this section, any oil well used or intended
to be used solely for subsurface injection into the earth of oil field waste,
gas or liquid substances shall be deemed to be in operation when such well is
physically connected by means of a suitably employable manifold or piping
system, to any oil well or wells or to any other operating equipment wherein
the oil well used or intended to be used solely for subsurface injection into
the earth of oil field waste, gas or liquid substances is used as an
integrated operational part thereof.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.3.16.  ABANDONMENT OF OIL WELLS.



 



   Oil well abandonments shall comply with Sections 57.5706.3.16.1 through
57.5706.3.16.4.3.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.3.16.1.  NON OPERATING OIL WELLS.



 



   Any oil well which has not been secured in compliance with the
provisions of Section 57.5706.3.15, or which, for a continuous period of one
year has not been in operation or has ceased to produce petroleum or natural
gas, shall either be abandoned or reactivated within 30 days after notice has
been given by the Chief.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.3.16.2.  WRITTEN NOTICE.



 



   Written notice to abandon or restore the oil well to use shall be
directed to the owner of the oil well, the permittee, the owner of the
premises, or the person having control or possession thereof, and may be
given in the manner set forth in Section 11.00 of the Municipal Code.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.3.16.3.  FAILURE TO ABANDON WELLS.



 



   It shall be unlawful for any permittee or owner, lessee, or trustee or
any other person having control or possession of any oil well, to fail,
refuse, or neglect to abandon same after notice has been given to such person
within the time provided in this section.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.3.16.4.  METHOD OF ABANDONMENT.



 



   For the purpose of abandoning an oil well, the person to whom the
notice is directed shall comply with Sections 57.5706.3.16.4.1 through
57.5706.3.16.4.3.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.3.16.4.1.  PLUG AND CAP.



 



   In addition to being plugged in accordance with the laws of the State
of California, every such oil well and the space between the surface casing
and any water string which is not removed from the well shall be filled with
a good grade rotary mud weighing not less than 70 pounds per cubic foot. 
Filling shall begin at the uppermost sealing plug required by laws or
regulations of the State of California and shall be capped with at least 100
lineal feet of cement downward from the floor level of the cellar but not
less than 6 feet below grade.  Such cement cap shall be inside the casing
and the water string and shall be covered at the cellar floor level by a
steel plate of the same thickness and with the same inside diameter as the
casing.  Such plate shall be welded throughout its entire circumference to
the casing with at least three welding passes and the Los Angeles Fire
Department number of the oil well shall be arc welded on the plate using
non-corrosive welding rod.  All such welding shall be performed by a
certified welder.  Cement caps shall be composed of one part cement to not
more than two and one- half parts sand and not more than three and one half
parts gravel or crushed rock.  The derricks, including all derrick parts,
shall be dismantled and removed from the premises immediately after the well
hole has been plugged and sealed.



 



   EXCEPTION:  Neat cement may be used for the surface plug when
installed by an approved cementing company.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.3.16.4.2.  SITE RESTORATION.



 



   Every gravity tank, still, retort, blowdown stack, boiler, pump, gas
lift, pipe line, and all other appurtenances and machinery used in connection
with any such oil well, shall be dismantled and removed from the premises. 
All foundations and dikes shall be demolished and removed.  All pump suction
pits, reservoirs, cellars, and catch basins shall be filled with a good grade
of earth or sand, and all such premises shall be restored to their natural
surface conditions.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.3.16.4.3.  NOTICE OF ABANDONMENT.



 



   The permittee or owner, lessee or trustee, or other person having
control of any oil well which is to be abandoned, or the agent designated by
such person to perform the abandonment work, shall notify the Chief of the
time and place of such abandonment at least 24 hours in advance of the time
thereof, provided that when any Saturday and Sunday or legal holiday,
severally or collectively, precedes the intended abandonment date, the Chief
shall be notified on the last preceding working day his office is open for
business.  No abandonment work required by this article shall be performed
except in the presence of the Chief.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.3.17.  OIL WELL VENTING.



 



   Abandoned oil wells under structures or within 10 feet of a structure
shall be vented to the atmosphere in a manner approved by the Chief.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.3.18.  NATURAL GASOLINE PLANTS AND REFINERIES.



 



   Natural gasoline plants and refineries shall be regulated in accordance
with Sections 57.5706.3.18.1 through 57.5706.3.18.2.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.3.18.1.  LOCATION.



 



   No permit shall be issued for the erection or construction of or
addition to any Refinery or Natural Gasoline Plant unless the location
thereof has first been approved in writing by the Chief.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.3.18.2.  PROCESS UNITS.



 



   Process units shall be so located that they are accessible from at
least one side for the purposes of fire control.  Where topographical
conditions are such that oil may flow from a processing area into another
area so as to constitute a fire hazard, provision shall be made to divert or
contain such flow.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.4.  BULK PLANTS OR TERMINALS.



 



   Portions of properties where flammable and combustible liquids are
received by tank vessels, pipelines, tank cars or tank vehicles and which are
stored or blended in bulk for the purpose of distributing such liquids by
tank vessels, pipelines, tanks cars, tank vehicles or containers shall be in
accordance with Sections 57.5706.4.1 through 57.5706.4.10.8.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.4.1.1.  PERMIT REQUIRED.



 



   A permit, in accordance with Section 57.105.6 of this article, shall be
required to operate or maintain a Bulk Distributing Station.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.4.7.6.  [PIPING, VALVES AND FITTINGS.]



 



   10.   Oil pipe lines on petroleum wharfs shall be steel or wrought
iron pipe of a grade suitable for service, shall be reasonably protected
against mechanical injury, and shall be installed, supported, and maintained
as necessary to safely withstand the stresses imposed by internal and
external loads and by contraction, expansion, vibration, or subsidence.



 



   11.   Pipelines from the pump to the wharf shall be tested annually
for tightness at a pressure not less than 150% of the maximum pumping
pressure.  The Terminal Operator shall certify in writing to the Chief, when
and at what pressure the pipelines were tested.  All piping installed,
renewed, or rearranged between shore and petroleum wharfs of timber
construction shall be provided with approved means to permit independent
movement of the wharf or shore piping without excessive strain on the pipe.



 



   12.   Each cargo hose shall be provided with a means of support
which will prevent chafing or kinking during transfer operations.  All cargo
hose shall be capable of withstanding a pressure equal to the maximum working
pressure of the system on which it is used.  Cargo hose shall be tested at
least once each year at a pressure at least as great as the pressure of the
relief valve setting (or maximum pump pressure when no relief valve is
installed), plus any static heat pressure of the system in which the hose is
used, and a record of such tests shall be maintained at the terminal.



 



   13.   Pans or buckets shall be placed under all hose couplings when
in use.  Ends of pipelines on wharf and vessel shall be blind flanged.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.4.7.8.1.  REPAIRS TO VESSEL OR WHARF.



 



   Repairs to tank vessels and wharfs during transfer of flammable
liquids, combustible liquids, or liquefied petroleum products shall be
limited to minor repairs.  No repairs shall be undertaken without the
specific approval of the tank vessel officer and the Terminal Superintendent.



 



   1.   Electrical Repairs - Repairs to electrical equipment may be
undertaken, provided all switches controlling the circuits are opened prior
to starting the repairs.  Open switches must be locked or otherwise secured
in an open position, and must be marked against closure by a proper warning
sign.



 



   2.   Engine Repairs – Emergency repairs to main engines shall be
performed continuously until completion, if possible, so that engines may be
operative at the earliest possible time.  During such repairs, a tug boat
shall be on standby call to move the vessel in an emergency.  The Terminal
Superintendent shall notify the Department of the circumstances by telephone
as soon as possible prior to the start of repair operations.



 



   3.   Hot Work – No emergency repairs involving the use of
electrically arcing, heat or flame-producing tools, or similar equipment
shall be undertaken on the open deck or in any space within the ship until
and unless such space is gas- free, and is kept gas-free.  The Department
shall be notified of such repairs in advance of the beginning of any work.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.4.7.9.  TERMINAL SUPERINTENDENT CERTIFIED.



 



   The operator of each marine oil terminal located in the Los Angeles
Harbor shall certify in writing to the Chief, the name of the Terminal
Superintendent designated to be in direct charge of the operation of such
marine terminal.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.4.7.10.  COMPETENT ASSISTANT.



 



   When the Terminal Superintendent departs from the premises, he shall be
relieved by a foreman or other competent employee, designated to then be in
active charge of and responsible for the operation of the marine terminal.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.4.7.11.  COMPETENCE OF PERSONS.



 



   It is the intent of this article that all persons performing duties and
coordinating operations therein regulated shall be sufficiently experienced
and capable to perform with competence and understanding in the interests of
public safety.  When any person is incompetent by reason of intoxication,
disorderly conduct, obvious inexperience or a language barrier, the Chief
shall summarily require operations to be discontinued.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.4.7.12.  REFUSAL.



 



   In the event of the refusal of the Master or responsible tank vessel
officer to comply with this article, the Terminal Superintendent shall
discontinue all transfer operations and notify the Department of the
conditions.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.4.7.13.  MOORING AND CARGO CONNECTIONS.



 



   Loading or discharging is not to commence until both, the Terminal
Superintendent and officer in charge of tank vessel are satisfied that tank
vessel is properly moored and all connections are properly made.  At all
times when a tank vessel is lying at a wharf, it shall have lines of such
length and tightness as to prevent a surge of the vessel from placing stress
on the hose.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.4.7.14.  STARTING TO TRANSFER.



 



   After inspection has been completed by ship’s officer and terminal
representative, proper connections have been made, an effective means of
communication has been established, and the vessel is in all respects ready,
the transfer of cargo shall be started at a low rate.  After operating
conditions have been checked and found satisfactory, the terminal
representative or ship’s officer may be notified to proceed at a safe
rate.  When pressure is being built up on hose, joints shall be carefully
watched for leaks.  Pumping pressure shall not exceed allowable pressure on
hose.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.4.7.15.  TRANSFER ACROSS DECK.



 



   Transferring of liquefied petroleum gases, flammable liquids,
combustible liquids, or products across the deck of another vessel shall not
be permitted at any time.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.4.7.16.  HATCHES AND ULLAGE HOLES.



 



   When transferring liquefied petroleum gases, flammable liquids,
combustible liquids, or products, all hatch covers shall be closed.  Ullage
plugs shall only be removed from such tanks as are being loaded or
discharged.  All such ullage plugs removed shall be replaced with approved
flame screen.  Such ullage screen covers shall be in place while
transferring when not being used to take samples, check tanks, or when
topping off.  Unless the vessel is gas-free, tank tops and ullage plugs of
tank vessels shall be closed while any towboat or other vessel is alongside
and shall not be opened until any such towboat or vessel has left the tank
and there is no longer any danger of sparks or other sources of ignition
therefrom.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.4.7.17.  PORTS AND DOORS TO QUARTERS.



 



   When loading products, all ports facing the wharf and cargo decks shall
be closed; all offshore ports shall be closed or screened, and all doors
shall be kept closed except for necessary passage of personnel.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.4.7.18.  MISCELLANEOUS HAZARDS.



 



   1.   When two or more ships are moored at adjacent berths at a
terminal and a hazardous vapor condition develops at any one of these ships,
all transfer operations involving all ships shall be stopped and all sources
of ignition such as smoking, use of matches, lighters, and open flame (except
boiler fires) shall be eliminated on all ships.



 



   2.   The Master or responsible officer of any vessel which is
transferring ballast, bunkering, standing by or lying at the wharf of any
marine oil terminal shall prohibit smoking, the use of matches, open flame
devices, and arcing or heat-producing electrical appliances on all open decks
of said vessel and no person shall smoke or use any such device or
appliance.  The Terminal Superintendent shall notify such officer of these
requirements.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.4.7.19.  GAS FREE INSPECTION.



 



   Before loading or discharging package goods or other dry freight cargo,
holds on vessels shall be inspected, and such holds shall be gas-free before
handling of freight will be permitted.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.4.7.20.  OBSTRUCTIONS.



 



   Bulk cargo transfer operations shall not be obstructed by equipment
stores, freight and other materials not essential to cargo operations being
performed.  Ship stores or supplies shall not be loaded or discharged while
transferring flammable liquids or liquefied petroleum products, except when
the Terminal Superintendent and officer in charge of the vessel shall agree
that such handling of stores will not obstruct transfer operations nor create
a fire hazard.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.4.7.21.  HAZARD ABATEMENT.



 



   If unsafe conditions exist, the officer of the tank vessel shall
cooperate with the Terminal Superintendent to remove the hazard.  If not
eliminated, loading or discharging shall be discontinued by the responsible
supervisor who has control of the pressure.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.4.7.22.  CONDITIONS REQUIRING SUMMARY ACTION.



 



   Cargo transfer operations shall not be started, or if started shall be
discontinued immediately by either the officer of the vessel or the Terminal
Superintendent when any of the following conditions come to his attention:



 



   1.   During severe electrical storm.



 



   2.   If a fire occurs on the wharf, or on tank vessel or in the
vicinity.



 



   3.   If there is not sufficient competent personnel aboard the
vessel or on the wharf to safety handle cargo operations in progress.



 



   4.   If it is necessary for any vessel to come along side or pass
within an unsafe distance from any tank vessel transferring flammable liquids
or liquefied petroleum products, or should any condition develop which
represents a hazard to the tank vessel or terminal facilities.



 



   5.   If a spill occurs aboard the vessel or on the wharf; or if
cargo hose fails, or leaks at hose joints cannot be stopped by tightening
hose connection.



 



   6.   If a serious vapor condition develops aboard or around the
vessel or wharf due to abnormal dissipation.



 



   7.   When ordered to do so by the Chief.



 



   8.   If any emergency occurs which, in the opinion of the tank
vessel officer or the Terminal Superintendent, constitutes a potential hazard
to the ship or facilities.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.4.7.23.  DUTIES OF THE TERMINAL SUPERINTENDENT.



 



   The duties of the Terminal Superintendent shall be as follows:



 



   1.   Prior to the starting of cargo pumps for transferring
operations, confer with the tank vessel officer, inspect the wharf and the
vessel if necessary, as set forth in Sections 57.5706.4.7.35 and
57.5706.4.7.36.



 



   2.   Be responsible to see that not less than two qualified
employees are in attendance, one of whom shall be on the wharf, and
performing required duties in connection with transfer operations at all
times when such operations are in progress between any tank vessel or
terminal.  One additional wharf man shall be provided for each additional
ship or tank vessel.



 



   3.   Be responsible for the observance of all safety precautions
prescribed, and instruct all terminal employees in the proper use of all
firefighting equipment provided for the protection of terminal facilities and
tank vessels in connection therewith.



 



   4.   Ascertain that signals and placards are displayed as required.



 



   5.   Not permit fires or open flame in any location in violation of
this article.



 



   6.   Cause cargo hose to be properly connected and control valves
properly manned.



 



   7.   See that the terminal crew is properly stationed and
sufficiently instructed to perform transfer operations.



 



   8.   See that no cargo is transferred to any tank vessel where, in
his opinion, a competent ship’s crew is not present or where, in his
opinion, unsafe conditions prevail aboard the vessel.



 



   9.   See that all tank vessel loading connections are through the
vessel’s pipe lines and not through an open hose in a hatch.



 



   10.   Before giving approval to start transfer operations, obtain
from the Master or responsible tank vessel officer a signed statement that
all safety requirements for which the Master is responsible, have been
complied with as specified elsewhere in this chapter.  The Terminal
Superintendent shall review the statement of the tank vessel officer and
certify thereon that he has noted the same.  This statement shall be
available for inspection by the Chief.



 



   11.   Prohibit unauthorized or apparently intoxicated or disorderly
persons from entering the dock or wharf or boarding the vessel.  When the
transfer of petroleum to or from the vessel has been discontinued, and when
the vessel is ready for sea, the Terminal Superintendent shall supervise the
movement of any such person to the vessel on which he is assigned, taking
such precautions as are warranted under the circumstances to assure safe
conduct.



 



   12.   Prohibit operation of automotive equipment within a distance
of 100 feet of any tank vessel transferring liquefied petroleum gases,
flammable liquids, combustible liquids, or products when tanks have
previously contained flammable liquids, combustible liquids, or products and
have not been purged of such vapors, except electrically operated automotive
equipment approved for use in hazardous locations.  In the event of a vapor
emergency, he shall prohibit entrance of all vehicles except Fire Department
equipment to the terminal property and shall prohibit the starting or
operation of all vehicles already parked on the terminal property, except on
his approval or if the Fire Department is present, on approval of the officer
in command.



 



   13.   Have on file a correct list of all products being loaded or
discharged.  Such list shall include the name, flash point, and United
States Coast Guard classification of the commodity.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.4.7.24.  DOCKING.



 



   Tank vessels shall not be moored at other than marine oil terminals or
other specially designated places, except when gas-free.  Whenever
practicable, tankships will berth headed out or to seaward.



 



   EXCEPTION:  By permission of the Los Angeles Fire Department and
concurrence of Harbor Department authority.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.4.7.25.  SCUPPERS AND SEA VALVES.



 



   A tank vessel officer shall see that all scuppers are effectively
plugged before transferring is commenced and that they so remain during the
entire time the cargo is being transferred except on tank vessels using water
for deck cooling or during rain storms.  Pump room sea valves shall be
closed and lashed to indicate that they should not be open during all cargo
transfer operations.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.4.7.26.  RESPONSIBILITY FOR HANDLING VALVES.



 



   The Terminal Superintendent shall be responsible for handling wharf
valves.  A  tank vessel officer shall be responsible for handling the
ship’s valves.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.4.7.27.  RESPONSIBILITY FOR PERSONNEL.



 



   The officer in charge of the vessel shall be held responsible for
ensuring that a sufficient number of qualified persons are provided for the
safe handling and transfer of all cargo while loading or discharging.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.4.7.28.  SIGNALS.



 



   When a vessel is transferring bulk petroleum products, signals as
required by law shall be displayed.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.4.7.29.  SIGNS AT THE GANGPLANK.



 



   During loading and discharging of tank vessels, a warning placard
carrying letters not less than 2 inches high on a contrasting background
shall be displayed near the gangway.  This placard shall state as follows:



 



   1.   WARNING



 



   2.   NO OPEN LIGHTS - NO SMOKING



 



   3.   NO VISITORS



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.4.7.30.  WARNING FOR SMALL CRAFT.



 



   At least two placards reading “DANGER – KEEP AWAY” in letters not
less than 6 inches in height on a contrasting background shall be located on
offshore side of vessel transferring flammable liquids, combustible liquids,
products or Class 1 and 2 liquefied petroleum gases, in such a position that
placards may be readily seen by approaching craft.  Only one such sign shall
be required for barges.  Such signs shall be furnished by the terminal at
which the vessel is moored.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.4.7.31.  MANNED BARGES.



 



   At least one member of the crew of a manned tank vessel barge shall be
on board at all times except when the vessel is gas-free or is moored at a
dock or terminal at which watchman service is provided, or unless reasonable
precautions are taken to prevent unauthorized persons from boarding the barge.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.4.7.32.  UNMANNED BARGES.



 



   On unmanned barges, a licensed deck officer or certified tankerman may
be supplied by the Terminal Superintendent.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.4.7.33.  GANGWAY.



 



   Safe access between ship and shore shall be provided.  Gangway shall
be properly rigged and maintained with handrails, adequate illumination, and
with a climbing angle not to exceed 40 degrees from horizontal.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.4.7.34.  MARINE OIL TERMINALS AND TRANSFERS.



 



   Marine oil transfer operations and marine oil terminals shall also be
in accordance with CFR Title 33 Parts 151,154,155, and 156, CFR Title 46
Parts 34, 35, and 153, and CCR Title 2 Division 3, Chapter 1, Article 5.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.4.7.35.  NOTIFICATION BY TERMINAL SUPERINTENDENT.



 



   The Terminal Superintendent shall cause the appropriate fire station of
the Los Angeles Fire Department to be notified by telephone that the terminal
and vessel have complied with all the regulations of the Declaration of
Inspection and both are ready to be inspected for commencement of transfer
operations.  Operations shall not begin without specific permission from the
Chief.  Prior to starting pumps for transfer operations, the Master or the
responsible tank vessel officer and the Terminal Superintendent shall confer
together to determine that all requirements have been met for safe transfer
operations aboard the vessel and on the terminal premises.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.4.7.36.  MASTERS CERTIFICATION.



 



   Before beginning any transfer operations, the Master or responsible
tank vessel officer shall certify in writing to the Terminal Superintendent,
on forms provided by the Chief, that:



 



   1.   The tank vessel carries a valid certificate as required by
Federal law for tank vessels engaged in transportation of petroleum products;



 



   2.   The requirements of this article relating to the operation and
maintenance of tank vessels while in the Los Angeles Harbor have been
complied with; and



 



   3.   The Master or responsible tank vessel officer will, on request,
give the Terminal Superintendent the opportunity to satisfy himself that the
condition of the vessel is as stated in the certification.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.4.8.1.  SMOKING AND OPEN FLAME ABOARD VESSELS.



 



   Smoking, use of matches, lighters, or open flames and operation of
arcing or heat-producing electrical appliances and equipment shall be
prohibited when transferring flammable liquids or liquefied petroleum
products, except that the Master may permit use of such appliances, boiler
fires, galley fires, and smoking in enclosed locations where the same will
not constitute a hazard.  Smoking on deck shall be prohibited at all times.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.4.10.5.  STANDPIPE LOCATIONS.



 



   Sufficient standpipe outlets shall be located and installed so as to
permit not less than two hose streams to protect any point on the wharf when
each said outlet is equipped with not more than 350 feet of 1 1/2 inch fire
hose.  All standpipe outlets and fire hose shall have National Standard
threads.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.4.10.6.  STANDPIPE WATER SUPPLY.



 



   The capacity of the water main supplying the required Class II
standpipe outlets shall be capable of supplying sufficient water to support
the use of the two outlets simultaneously, each having a discharge
satisfactory to the Chief, though not less than a 5/8 inch nozzle tip for the
1 1/2 inch fire hose attached to not less than 100 feet of 1 1/2 inch fire
hose.  The Chief may permit the use of a nozzle tip 1/8 inch less than
specified.  Dual purpose, fog and straight stream nozzles in standard sizes
may be used when approved by the Chief.  Nozzle stream horizontal reach of
50 feet shall be deemed satisfactory for straight stream nozzles.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.4.10.7.  FIRE EQUIPMENT ARRANGEMENT.



 



   Any one of the following means of providing approved fire protection
equipment may be considered a minimum requirement for the use of marine oil
terminal docks or wharfs:



 



   1.   Hose cabinets or houses shall be provided at each required
Class II standpipe outlet location.  Each hose cabinet or house shall be
provided with not more than 350 feet of 1 1/2 inch or 2 1/2 inch hose
equipped with a nozzle tip with a minimum bore of 5/8 inch or 1 inch. 
Except as provided in Section 57.5706.4.10.6, the hose shall be coupled in a
continuous line and shall be attached to the outlets at all times for
immediate use.  Each hose cabinet or house shall be equipped with a hose and
a combination hydrant spanner.



 



   2.   At all times when tank vessels are at any marine oil terminal
wharf, there shall be an approved hose reel equipped with not less than 350
feet of 1 1/2 inch hose, and a 5/8 inch nozzle tip, stationed on the wharf as
near as practical to the stern and bow of the tank vessel.



 



   EXCEPTION:  Where Class II standpipe outlets are so spaced, it will
only be necessary to provide hose on reels as to permit two hose streams to
be brought together at any point on the wharf and operated simultaneously. 
Approved hose reels shall be stored in a location approved by the Chief, when
such equipment is not in use during operations.  Each hose reel shall be
equipped with a suitable hose and combination hydrant spanner attached to the
female end of hose.



 



   3.   Where the protection set forth in subsections (1) or (2),
above, is not in use, each hydrant or Class II standpipe outlet over the full
length of the vessel shall have not more than 350 feet of hose connected and
ready for use.  The hose shall be flaked out on the wharf with nozzle tip
attached.  Each hydrant so equipped shall be provided with a suitable
spanner in place on the hydrant stem.



 



   4.   Other equivalent fire protection arrangements approved by the
Chief.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.4.10.8.  FIRE PROTECTION ON THE VESSEL.



 



   Sufficient serviceable fire hose with suitable nozzles attached to
reach all parts of the vessel shall be connected to the fire main on the
vessel and made ready for immediate use at all times the vessel is at a
wharf.  If adequate water pressure is not available on board ship,
connections shall be made to shore lines to obtain adequate pressure.  All
outlets or shore connections shall be provided with approved
anti-contamination or backflow preventing devices acceptable to the Los
Angeles Department of Water and Power.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.5.1.6.1.  FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEM.



 



   An approved fire protection system shall be provided in every Bulk
Distributing Station building in which Class I or II liquids are handled
outside of closed systems.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.5.1.6.2.  PORTABLE FIRE EXTINGUISHERS.



 



   Portable fire extinguishers shall be maintained and distributed at
every Bulk Distributing Station as specified in Section 57.906 of this
article.  At least one extinguisher with a minimum classification of 20B:C
shall be provided at each loading or unloading facility.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.5.1.19.  BACKING VEHICLES PROHIBITED.



 



   No vehicles containing Class I or II liquids, except railroad cars,
shall be propelled backward from any Bulk Distributing Station onto any
street.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.5.4.6.  TRANSFERRING OF FLAMMABLE AND COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS.



 



   Flammable and combustible liquids shall not be transferred from any
tank vehicle except into aircraft fuel tanks, approved atmospheric tanks, or
portable tanks and carboys.



 



   EXCEPTION:  Transfer of flammable and combustible liquids from a tank
vehicle into fuel tanks of marine craft (for purposes of auxiliary power
only), motor vehicles, or motor equipment may be performed under permit from
the Department pursuant to Section 57.105.7 of this article, provided:



 



   1.   The transfer operation is not performed where the public is
invited or where there is unusual exposure to life and property.



 



   2.   The tank vehicles are approved by the Department.



 



   3.   The tank vehicle’s specific function is that of supplying
fuel to fuel tanks.



 



   4.   The dispensing hose does not exceed 50 feet in length.



 



   5.   The dispensing nozzle is an approved automatic closing type.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.6.1.6.1.  DOME COVERS.



 



   Dome covers shall be closed and latched while the tank vehicle is in
transit.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.6.1.10.2.  DISCHARGE HOSES.



 



   All hose fittings shall be liquid-tight.  When multiple hoses are
used, the tank vehicle shall not be stationed on any public street, alley,
walk or other public thoroughfare.  Multiple hoses are permitted for gravity
discharge only.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.6.5.  TIME LIMIT.



 



   Tank cars shall be unloaded as soon as possible after their arrival at
point of delivery, and shall not be used as storage tanks except by permit as
set forth in Section 57.105.7 of Chapter 1.  Unless otherwise specified by
such permit, no tank car containing Class I, II or IIIA liquids shall be
allowed to remain on siding at point of delivery for more than 24 hours while
connected for transfer operations.  During such transfer operations, a
qualified person shall be in constant attendance.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.6.6.  UNLOADING PROCEDURE.



 



   The use of air pressure is prohibited.  Dispensing from tank cars into
drums or other portable containers is prohibited unless facilities have been
approved for such operations.  Dispensing from tank cars to tank vehicles
shall be done only at approved loading racks.



 



   EXCEPTIONS:



 



   1.   When a tank car is disabled through accident or mechanical
failure and it is necessary to remove the cargo at other than an approved
loading rack, such cargo may be transferred to a tank vehicle.



 



   2.   When a tank car to tank vehicle unloading operation is
performed under permit from the Chief pursuant to Section 57.105.7 of Chapter
1.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.6.7.  ASPHALT TANK VEHICLES.



 



   Asphalt tank vehicles and all integral working parts, valves, safety
relief devices, burners, pressure tanks, and overflow basins shall be in good
working condition and shall be maintained free of excessive asphalt residue.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.6.7.1.  OVERFLOW PROTECTION.



 



   Overflow protection for asphalt tank vehicles shall be provided in the
form of reservoirs or flashing around fill and vent pipes.  These shall be
designed and maintained so that hot asphalt will not spill onto tires,
brakes, burner equipment, or exhaust system.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.6.7.2.  PIPING ABOVE GRADE.



 



   Piping or tubing used to transfer heated asphalt to the roof or above
grade level shall be a minimum of Schedule No. 40 metal pipe or equal. 
Flexible piping shall only be used adjacent to the pump or kettle and shall
not exceed 6 feet in length.  All piping shall be firmly supported at
intervals of not more than 12 feet.



 



 



SEC. 57.5706.6.7.3.  ACCESS TO PUBLIC WAY.



 



   When asphalt tank vehicles or piping interfere with the use of or
access to the public way, barriers shall be provided at a minimum of 25 feet
on either side of the operation and shall clearly indicate that the enclosed
area is restricted to use by authorized persons only.



 



 



SEC. 57.5707.  ON-DEMAND MOBILE FUELING OPERATIONS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



 



SEC. 57.5707.1.  GENERAL.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   On-demand mobile fueling operations that dispense Class I, II, and III
liquids into the fuel tanks of motor vehicles shall comply with Sections.
57.5707.1 through 57.5707.6.3.



 



   EXCEPTION:  Fueling from an approved portable container in cases of an
emergency or for personal use.



 



 



SEC. 57.5707.1.1.  APPROVAL REQUIRED.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Mobile fueling operations shall not be conducted without first
obtaining a permit and approval from the Fire Code Official.  Mobile fueling
operations shall occur only at approved locations.



 



 



SEC. 57.5707.2.  MOBILE FUELING VEHICLE.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   An on-demand mobile fueling vehicle shall be one of the following:



 



   1.   A vehicle that has chassis-mounted tanks or containers where
the aggregate cargo capacity does not exceed 1,200 gallons (4592 L).  A
mobile fueling vehicle with a mounted tank in excess of 110 gallons (415 L)
shall comply with the requirements of Section 57.5706.6, Section 57.5707, and
NFPA 385.



 



   2.   A vehicle that carries a maximum of 60 gallons (227 L) of motor
fuel in metal safety cans listed in accordance with UL 30 or other approved
metal containers each not to exceed 5 gallons (19 L) in capacity. 
Containers shall be secured to the mobile fueling vehicle except when in
use.  The mobile fueling vehicle shall comply with the requirements of all
local, state and federal requirements.  The mobile fueling vehicle and its
equipment shall be maintained in good repair.



 



 



SEC. 57.5707.3.  REQUIRED DOCUMENTS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Documents developed to comply with Sections 57.5707.3.1 through
57.5707.3.3 shall be updated as necessary by the owner of the mobile fueling
operation and shall be maintained in compliance with Section 57.107.3.



 



 



SEC. 57.5707.3.1.  SAFETY AND EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Mobile fueling operators shall have an approved written safety and
emergency response plan that establishes policies and procedures for fire
safety, spill prevention and control, personnel training and compliance with
other applicable requirements of this Code.



 



 



SEC. 57.5707.3.2.  TRAINING RECORDS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Mobile fueling vehicles shall be operated only by designated personnel
who are trained on proper fueling procedures and the safety and emergency
response plan.  Training records of operators shall be maintained.



 



 



SEC. 57.5707.3.3.  SITE PLAN.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Where required by the Fire Code Official, a site plan shall be
developed for each location at which mobile fueling occurs.  The site plan
shall be in sufficient detail to indicate: all buildings, structures, lot
lines, property lines, and appurtenances on site and their use or function;
all uses adjacent to the lot lines of the site; fueling locations, the
locations of all storm drain openings, and adjacent waterways or wetlands;
information regarding slope, natural drainage, curbing, impounding and how a
spill will be retained upon the site property; and the scale of the site plan.



 



 



SEC. 57.5707.4.  MOBILE FUELING AREAS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Mobile fueling shall not occur on public streets, public ways, or
inside buildings. Fueling on the roof level of parking structures or other
buildings is prohibited.



 



 



SEC. 57.5707.4.1.  SEPARATION.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Mobile fueling shall not take place within 25 feet (7620 mm) of
buildings, property lines, or combustible storage.



 



   EXCEPTION:  The Fire Code Official shall be authorized to decrease the
separation distance for dispensing from metal safety cans or other approved
metal containers in accordance with Section 57.5707.2.  When dispensing
operations occur within 15 feet (4572 mm) of a storm drain, an approved storm
drain cover or an approved equivalent method that will prevent any fuel from
reaching the drain shall be used.



 



 



SEC. 57.5707.4.2.  SOURCES OF IGNITION.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Smoking, open flames, and other sources of ignition shall be prohibited
within 25 feet (7620 mm) of fuel dispensing activities.  Signs prohibiting
smoking or open flames within 25 feet (7620 mm) of the vehicle or the point
of fueling shall be prominently posted on the mobile fueling vehicle.  The
engines of vehicles being fueled shall be shut off during fueling.



 



 



SEC. 57.5707.5.  EQUIPMENT.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Mobile fueling equipment shall comply with Sections 57.5707.5.1 through
57.5707.5.4.



 



 



SEC. 57.5707.5.1.  DISPENSING HOSES AND NOZZLES.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Where equipped, the dispensing hose shall not exceed 50 feet (15 240
mm) in length.  The dispensing nozzles and hoses shall be of an approved and
listed type.



 



 



SEC. 57.5707.5.2.  FUEL LIMIT.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Mobile fueling vehicles shall be equipped with a fuel limit switch set
to a maximum of 30 gallons (116 L) and a nozzle or other approved device
that, when activated, immediately causes flow of fuel from the mobile fueling
vehicle to cease.



 



 



SEC. 57.5707.5.3.  FIRE EXTINGUISHER.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   An approved portable fire extinguisher complying with Section 57.906
with a minimum rating of 40-B:C shall be provided on the mobile fueling
vehicle with signage clearly indicating its location.



 



 



SEC. 57.5707.5.4.  SPILL KIT.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Mobile fueling vehicles shall contain a minimum 5 gallon (19 L) spill
kit of an approved type.



 



 



SEC. 57.5707.6.  OPERATIONS.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Mobile fueling vehicles shall be constantly attended during fueling
operations with brakes set and warning lights in operation.  Mobile fueling
vehicles shall not obstruct emergency vehicle access roads.



 



 



SEC. 57.5707.6.1.  DISPENSING HOSE.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Where equipped, mobile fueling vehicles shall be positioned in a manner
to preclude traffic from driving over the dispensing hose.  The dispensing
hose shall be properly placed on an approved reel or in an approved
compartment prior to moving the mobile fueling vehicle.



 



 



SEC. 57.5707.6.2.  DRIP CONTROL.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Operators shall place a drip pan or an absorbent pillow under the
nozzle to catch drips and under each fuel fill opening prior to and during
dispensing operations.



 



 



SEC. 57.5707.6.3.  SPILL REPORTING.



   (Added by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Spills shall be reported in accordance with Section 57.5003.3.1.



 



 



SEC. 57.5801.  GENERAL.



 



   Chapter 58 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted by
reference with the following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.5802.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   Section 5802 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.5803.  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.



 



   Section 5803 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.5804.  STORAGE.



 



   Section 5804 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.5805.  USE.



 



   Section 5805 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.5806.  FLAMMABLE CRYOGENIC FLUIDS.



 



   Section 5806 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.5807.  METAL HYDRIDE SYSTEMS.



 



   Section 5807 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.5808.  HYDROGEN FUEL GAS ROOMS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Section 5808 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted in its
entirety, as amended by the California Building Standards Commission,
effective July 1, 2018, and as thereafter amended from time to time.



 



 



SEC. 57.5901.  GENERAL.



 



   Chapter 59 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted by
reference with the following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.5901.1.1.  COMBUSTIBLE METALS.



 



   The storage, handling, and use of combustible metals shall be in
accordance with this chapter and NFPA 484.



 



 



SEC. 57.5902.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   Section 5902 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.5902.1.  [DEFINITIONS.]



 



   Combustible Metal.



 



 



SEC. 57.5903.  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.



 



   Section 5903 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.5904.  STORAGE.



 



   Section 5904 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.5905.  USE.



 



   Section 5905 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.5906.  MAGNESIUM.



 



   Section 5906 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.5907.  TITANIUM AND ZIRCONIUM.



 



 



SEC. 57.5907.1.  GENERAL STORAGE REQUIREMENTS.



 



   The storage, handling, and use of titanium and zirconium shall comply
with the following:



 



   1.   Titanium and zirconium chips, turnings, and fines shall be
stored in covered steel containers and limited to 50 pounds per container.



 



   2.   Titanium and zirconium chips, turnings, and fines shall be
stored in an approved outside location, or in a detached scrap-storage
building, or in a special scrap-storage room of fire-resistive
construction.  Such rooms or buildings shall be constructed in accordance
with Chapter 9 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code (Building Code).



 



   3.   Titanium and zirconium chips, turnings, and fines shall be
stored in piles one container high with a total of 500 pounds maximum per
pile.



 



   4.   Every pile shall be separated from every other pile by an aisle
at least 5 feet wide to facilitate the removal of containers.



 



   5.   Storage areas shall be separated from other occupancies by
appropriate fire-resistive construction without openings or by an open space
of at least 50 feet.



 



   6.   All chips, turnings, and fines shall be separated from all
combustible storage, flammable solids, flammable and combustible liquids,
dangerous chemicals, and corrosive liquids.



 



   7.   No open flame or spark-producing device shall be permitted in
operating, storage, or disposal areas.  The above areas shall be clearly
posted with ‘NO SMOKING’ signs in accordance with Section 57.310 of this
article.



 



   8.   A permit is required in accordance with Section 57.105.6 of
this article when the quantities exceed the exempt amount of combustible
metals in Table 57.105.6.14.



 



 



SEC. 57.6001.  GENERAL.



 



   Chapter 60 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted in its
entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.6002.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   Section 6002 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.6003.  HIGHLY TOXIC AND TOXIC SOLIDS AND LIQUIDS.



 



   Section 6003 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.6004.  HIGHLY TOXIC AND TOXIC COMPRESSED GASES.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Section 6004 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted in its
entirety, as amended by the California Building Standards Commission,
effective July 1, 2018, and as thereafter amended from time to time.



 



 



SEC. 57.6005.  OZONE GAS GENERATORS.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Section 6005 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted in its
entirety, as amended by the California Building Standards Commission,
effective July 1, 2018, and as thereafter amended from time to time.



 



 



SEC. 57.6101.  GENERAL.



 



   Chapter 61 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted by
reference with the following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.6101.2.1.  FILLING WITHOUT PERMITS.



 



   No person shall fill any pressure vessel with liquefied flammable gas
on any premises where such pressure vessel is installed, unless under a valid
permit pursuant to the provisions of this article for the maintenance and use
of such pressure vessel.



 



 



SEC. 57.6102.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   Section 6102 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.6103.  INSTALLATION OF EQUIPMENT.



 



   Section 6103 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.6104.  LOCATION OF LP-GAS CONTAINERS.



 



   Section 6104 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.6105.  PROHIBITED USE OF LP-GAS.



 



   Section 6105 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.6106.  DISPENSING AND OVERFILLING.



 



   Section 6106 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.6106.4.  FILLING CYLINDERS OR TANKS.



 



   The transferring or dispensing of liquefied flammable gas into any
cylinder or tank on the premises where consumed shall be accomplished only by
a cargo tank equipped with approved transfer apparatus.  The dispensing of
liquefied flammable gas into any cylinders or tank by a cargo tank on any
premises where not consumed is prohibited.



 



 



SEC. 57.6106.5.  TRANSFERRING ON PUBLIC THOROUGHFARE.



 



   The transferring of liquefied flammable gas from a cylinder, tank,
cargo tank or mobile fuel tank to another on any public street, sidewalk,
alley, or public way is prohibited, except by Special Permit from the Chief
pursuant to Section 57.105.8 of this article, or in an accident or emergency,
by verbal permission of the Fire Department officer in command at the
location.



 



 



SEC. 57.6106.6.  ATTENDANCE DURING TRANSFER OPERATIONS.



 



   The attendant or operator shall remain at the transfer connections
continuously while transferring liquefied flammable gas from the time that
connections are first made until connections are finally broken.  During
such period, both ends of the transfer or dispensing hose and the cargo tank
vehicle shall be frequently observed by the attendant or operator.



 



 



SEC. 57.6107.  SAFETY PRECAUTIONS AND DEVICES.



 



   Section 6107 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.6108.  FIRE PROTECTION.



 



   Section 6108 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.6109.  STORAGE OF PORTABLE LP-GAS CONTAINERS AWAITING USE OR RESALE.



 



   Section 6109 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.6110.  LP-GAS CONTAINERS NOT IN SERVICE.



 



   Section 6110 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.6111.  PARKING AND GARAGING OF LP-GAS TANK VEHICLES.



 



   Section 6111 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.6112.  BULK DISTRIBUTION STATIONS.



 



   Section 6112 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.6112.1.  FENCES REQUIRED.



 



   Every liquefied flammable gas Bulk Distributing Station shall be
entirely surrounded by a substantial fence at least 5 feet high with adequate
gates.  No tank vehicle or railroad liquefied flammable gas tank car shall
be loaded or unloaded at any Bulk Distributing Station, unless it is
completely within such fenced enclosure.



 



 



SEC. 57.6112.2.  BACKING VEHICLES PROHIBITED.



 



   No tank vehicle shall be propelled backwards from such enclosure into
any street, alley or public way.  All driveways used in connection with any
such liquefied flammable gas Bulk Distributing Station shall be so arranged
that vehicles other than railroad cars can travel into or out of the fenced
enclosure of such Bulk Distributing Station only in a forward direction.



 



 



SEC. 57.6112.3.  FILLING TRANSPORTATION TANKS.



 



   Tank vehicles shall be filled only at a liquefied flammable gas Bulk
Distributing Station.



 



 



SEC. 57.6112.4.  REMOTE CONTROL SWITCH.



 



   An electrical power control switch shall be located at every transfer
apparatus where electric power is used in connection with any such transfer
apparatus pump for loading or unloading.  In addition thereto, a control
switch shall be located at a remote point.  Both power control switches
shall be conspicuously labeled with a legible sign indicating the location
and function thereof.



 



 



SEC. 57.6201.  GENERAL.



 



   Chapter 62 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted by
reference with the following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.6202.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   Section 6202 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.6203.  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.



 



   Section 6203 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.6203.3.  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.



 



   Organic peroxides shall be subject to the following requirements:



 



   1.   Acetones shall not be used as an extender for ketone peroxides
or for cleaning equipment in which ketone peroxides have been used.



 



   2.   Containers used to hold organic peroxides, when completely
emptied, shall be removed to an outside storage area for disposal.  Empty
containers shall not be used for any other purpose.



 



   3.   Spilled liquid and paste forms of peroxides shall be absorbed
by a noncombustible material such as vermiculite or perlite, swept up
immediately, and removed to an outside storage area for disposal.



 



   4.   Organic peroxides shall be separated from all sources of heat
including steam pipes, radiators, open flames or sparks, and solar radiation.



 



 



SEC. 57.6204.  STORAGE.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 185,760, Eff. 10/24/18.)



 



   Section 6204 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted in its
entirety, as amended by the California Building Standards Commission,
effective July 1, 2018, and as thereafter amended from time to time, with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.6204.1.12.  STORAGE OF ORGANIC PEROXIDES.



 



   Organic peroxides shall not be stored in the same cabinet, room, or
area with metallic salts, acids, bases, amines, oxidizing or reducing agents
of any type, accelerators such as Cobalt Naphthenates and Cobalt Tertiary
Amine, or with flammable or combustible liquids.



 



 



SEC. 57.6204.1.13.  HAZARDOUS MATERIALS CABINET – CONSTRUCTION AND USE.



 



   Hazardous materials cabinets shall be constructed in accordance with
L.A.F.D. Standard No. 40, and shall be used in accordance with the following:



 



   1.   Not more than 50 pounds of solid or 20 gallons of liquid
organic peroxides shall be stored in a Hazardous Materials Cabinet.



 



   2.   Not more than one Hazardous Materials Cabinet containing
organic peroxides shall be allowed within a building and such cabinet shall
be used exclusively for the storage of organic peroxides.



 



   3.   The location of Hazardous Materials Cabinets shall be
determined by the Chief.



 



 



SEC. 57.6204.1.14.  REFRIGERATORS AND FREEZERS.



 



   Refrigerators and freezers may be used for the storage of small
quantities of organic peroxides only under the following conditions:



 



   1.   The refrigerator or freezer shall be approved for the storage
of hazardous materials and all electrical equipment shall comply with the
requirements of Chapter 9 of Los Angeles Municipal Code (Electrical Code) for
hazardous locations.



 



   2.   Organic peroxides shall not be allowed to contact the interior
surfaces of the refrigerator or freezer.



 



   3.   The location of the refrigerator or freezer shall be approved
by the Chief and shall comply with other applicable sections of this chapter.



 



   4.   Not more than 50 pounds of solid or 20 gallons of liquid
organic peroxides shall be stored in a refrigerator or freezer, and only one
such appliance shall be allowed within a building for the exclusive storage
of organic peroxides.



 



 



SEC. 67.6205.  USE.



 



   Section 6205 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.6205.2.  HANDLING AND USE OF ORGANIC PEROXIDES.



 



   The handling and use of organic peroxides shall be in accordance with
the following:



 



   1.   Organic peroxides in mixing areas shall be limited to the
quantity needed for one eight-hour shift.



 



   2.   Dispensing or weighing of organic peroxides shall not take
place in the storage area.



 



   3.   A section of the manufacturing area near the point of use shall
be set aside for dispensing and weighing of peroxides.  This section shall
be clean and procedures shall be established to eliminate contamination with
promoters or chemicals of any type.



 



   4.   Where Class 1, 2, or 3 peroxides are handled, there shall be
provided electrical wiring and equipment in accordance with Chapter 9 of the
LosAngeles Municipal Code (Electrical Code).



 



   5.   All tanks, metal containers, and pipelines shall be grounded or
bonded in an approved manner to prevent the accumulation of static
electricity.



 



   6.   All supplies of organic peroxides shall be returned to proper
storage locations at the end of each workday.



 



 



SEC. 57.6301.  GENERAL.



 



   Chapter 63 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted in its
entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.6302.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   Section 6302 the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.6303.  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.



 



   Section 6303 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.6304.  STORAGE.



 



   Section 6304 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.6305.  USE.



 



   Section 6305 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.6306.  LIQUID OXYGEN IN HOME HEALTH CARE.



 



   Section 6306 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.6401.  GENERAL.



 



   Chapter 64 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted by
reference with the following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.6401.3.  GENERAL STORAGE REQUIREMENTS.



 



   Pyrophoric materials shall, unless otherwise approved by the Chief, be
handled in an inert gas, or within a closed system or under a suitable fluid,
which will prevent exposure to air or other oxidizing gases.



 



 



SEC. 57.6402.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   Section 6402 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.6403.  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.



 



   Section 6403 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.6404.  STORAGE.



 



   Section 6404 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.6405.  USE.



 



   Section 6405 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.6501.  GENERAL.



 



   Chapter 65 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted in its
entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.6502.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   Section 6502 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.6503.  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.



 



   Section 6503 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.6504.  STORAGE AND HANDLING.



 



   Section 6504 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.6601.  GENERAL.



 



   Chapter 66 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted by
reference with the following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.6602.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   Section 6602 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.6603.  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.



 



   Section 6603 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.6603.3.  STABILIZATION.



 



   Unstable materials which require stabilization by the use of inhibitors
shall not be stored, processed, or handled without such inhibitors, except
that where a particular process required the use of an unstable material
without such additives, the Chief may waive the above prohibition under
specifically prescribed conditions.



 



 



SEC. 57.6603.4.  INERT GAS.



 



   Liquid unstable materials shall be blanketed with inert gas when
subject to the conditions in Sections 57.6603.4.1 and 57.6603.4.2.



 



 



SEC. 57.6603.4.1.  DECOMPOSITION.



 



   Liquid unstable materials which are subject to violent or dangerous
decomposition in the vapor phase shall be blanketed with an approved inert
gas when stored in tanks or vessels, unless other approved control methods
are provided.



 



 



SEC. 57.6603.4.2.  POLYMERIZATION.



 



   Liquid unstable materials which are subject to violent or dangerous
polymerization in the vapor phase shall be blanketed with an approved inert
gas when stored in tanks or vessels, unless other approved control methods
are provided.



 



 



SEC. 57.6604.  STORAGE.



 



   Section 6604 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.6605.  USE.



 



   Section 6605 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.6701.  GENERAL.



 



   Chapter 67 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted by
reference with the following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.6702.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   Section 6702 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.6703.  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.



 



   Section 6703 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 57.6704.  STORAGE.



 



   Section 6704 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety with the
following exceptions, modifications, and additions.



 



 



SEC. 57.6704.3.  CONTAINER COVERS.



 



   Tanks or lines containing water-reactive materials which are open at
the top in such a manner that water streams could be directed into them
during fire conditions shall be covered at the close of each working day and
during extended periods of non-use with an approved lid or cover.



 



 



SEC. 57.6705.  USE.



 



   Section 6705 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



[CHAPTERS 68-79 RESERVED]



 



 



SEC. 57.8001.  REFERENCED STANDARDS.



 



   Chapter 80 of the California Fire Code (CFC) is hereby adopted by
reference with the following additions.



 



L.A.F.D. Standard No. 40. Specifications for construction of Hazardous
Materials cabinets and Portable Magazines . . . . . 5609.2.1, 5610.1.2.1,
5611.1.1, 5617.4.2



 



FAA.United States Department of Transportation, Federal Aviation
Administration



 



FAA Advisory Circular 150/5390 2C 2012 doc. Heliport Design . . . . . 4705.4,
4705.4.2



 



CFR. Code of Federal Regulations



 



CFR Title 33 Part 151,154, 155, and 156, CFR Title 46 Part 34, 35, and 153,
and CCR Title 2 Division 3, Chapter 1, Article 5 . . . . . 5706.4.36



 



USFS. United States Forest Service



 



“Standard for Spark Arresters for Internal Combustion Engines” (Standard
5100-1B, July 1991) . . . . . 313.3.1



 



NFPA 40   Add reference 306.2.1



 



NFPA 407   Add reference 2001.2.1



 



NFPA 505   Add reference 309.7, 315.2.9



 



NFPA 705-13   Add reference 806.1.4.4



 



 



APPENDIX.



 



   Appendix Chapter 4 of the 2016 edition of the CFC is adopted by
reference.



 



 



SEC. 435.  SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR LICENSED 24 HOUR CARE FACILITIES IN A
GROUP R-2.1, R-3.1, R4.



 



   Section 435 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 436.  GROUP I-4.



 



   Section 436 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 437.  SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR LICENSED 24-HOUR CARE FACILITIES IN GROUPS
R-3.1 AND R-4.



 



   Section 437 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 452.  SCHOOL FACILITIES FOR KINDERGARTEN THROUGH 12TH GRADE AND GROUP E
DAY CARE.



 



   Section 452 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



SEC. 455.  LARGE FAMILY DAY-CARE HOMES.



 



   Section 455 of the CFC is hereby adopted in its entirety.



 



 



APPENDIX D.



 



   Appendix D of the 2015 edition of the IFC is adopted by reference.



 



 



APPENDIX H.



 



   Appendix H of the 2016 edition of the CFC is adopted by reference.



 



 



APPENDIX N.  TEMPORARY HAUNTED HOUSES, GHOST WALKS AND SIMILAR AMUSEMENT
USES.



 



   Appendix N101 through N103.15 as printed in the 2015 edition of the CFC
as is adopted by reference and reprinted below:



 



 



SEC. N101.  GENERAL.



 



 



SEC. N101.1.  SCOPE.



 



   These regulations shall apply to temporary haunted houses, ghost walks,
or similar amusement uses, where decorative materials and confusing sounds
and/or visual effects are present, and shall be in accordance with this
appendix.



 



 



SEC. N101.2.  PERMITS.



 



   An Operational Permit shall be required for haunted houses, ghost
walks, or similar amusement uses in accordance with Appendix N101.2.



 



 



SEC. N101.2.1.  PERMIT DOCUMENTS.



 



   The permit application shall include a dimensioned site plan and floor
plan.



 



   A site plan shall include depiction of the following:



 



   1.   The proximity of the event building(s) to other structures or
hazardous areas.



 



   2.   The path of travel from the event building or area to the
public way.



 



   3.   The location of exterior evacuation assembly points.



 



   A floor plan shall include depiction of the following:



 



   1.   Dimensions of the area being used (include total square
footage, width, and types of exits, aisles, or interior exit pathways, etc.).



 



   2.   The path of travel shall include the layout of any mazes,
mirrors or other display items that may confuse the egress paths.



 



   3.   A brief description of what will be depicted in each room or
area along the walk or course, including the type of special effects to be
utilized.



 



   4.   Location of exits, exit signs, and emergency lighting.



 



   5.   Location of electrical panel(s) and light switches.



 



   6.   Identification of what the normal or prior use of the
structure(s) being used is (i.e., auditorium, school, church, etc.).



 



   7.   Accessible egress routes.



 



   8.   When required, areas of refuge.



 



   9.   When required by Section 57.907.2.12, fire alarm panel
location, manual fire alarm boxes, and horn/strobe locations.



 



   10.   Portable fire extinguisher locations.



 



   11.   The location and fuel capacity of all generators.



 



 



SEC. N102.  DEFINITIONS.



 



 



SEC. N102.1.  DECORATIVE MATERIALS.



 



   All materials used for decorative, acoustical or other effect (such as
curtains, draperies, fabrics, streamers, and surface coverings) and all other
materials utilized for decorative effect (such as batting, cloth, cotton, hay
stalks, straw, vines, leaves, trees, moss and similar items), including foam
plastics and other materials containing foam plastics.



 



 



SEC. N102.2.  HAUNTED HOUSE.



 



   A temporary building or structure, or portion thereof, which contains a
system that transports passengers or provides a walkway through a course so
arranged that the means of egresses are not apparent due to theatrical
distractions, not visible due to low illumination, are disguised or are not
readily available due to the method of transportation through the building or
structure.



 



 



SEC. N102.3.  GHOST WALKS.



 



   Similar to haunted houses, and may include both indoor and outdoor
areas where the means of egress are similarly not readily identifiable.



 



 



SEC. N103.  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.



 



 



SEC. N103.1.  ALLOWABLE STRUCTURES.



 



   Haunted houses, ghost walks, and similar amusement uses shall only be
located in structures that comply with the provisions for Special Amusement
Buildings in accordance with the California Building Code.



 



 



SEC. N103.2.  TENTS OR MEMBRANE STRUCTURES.



 



   Tents and membrane structures may be used when in compliance with all
applicable requirements of this regulation and when the total floor area of
the tent is less than 1,000 square feet and the travel distance to an exit
from any location is less than 50 feet.



 



 



SEC. N103.3.  FIRE EVACUATION PLANS.



 



   A fire safety and evacuation plan that complies with Section 404 of
this Code shall be submitted.



 



 



SEC. N103.4.  STAFFING.



 



   The event shall be adequately staffed by qualified person(s) to control
the occupant load and assist patrons in exiting should an evacuation become
necessary.  Staffing level shall be determined upon review of plans and may
be increased at the discretion of the Fire Code Official.



 



 



SEC. N103.5.  OCCUPANT LOAD.



 



   Maximum occupant load shall be in accordance with Chapter 10, Table
1004.1.1. A sign stating maximum occupancy shall be posted in a visible
location near the entrance.  The attendant(s) shall control the flow of
patrons so as not to exceed this limit.



 



 



SEC. N103.6.  EXITS.



 



   Exiting shall be in accordance with Chapter 10 and this section.



 



   1.   Two exits shall be provided from each room with an occupant
load of 50 or more.  Required exit doors shall swing in the direction of
egress.



 



   2.   Illuminated exit signs shall be provided at each exit serving
an occupant load of 50 or more.



 



   3.   Exit doors serving an occupant load of 50 or more shall not be
provided with a latch or lock unless it is panic hardware.



 



   4.   When tents or membrane structures are approved for use,
curtains shall not be allowed to cover the exits.



 



   5.   Emergency lighting shall be provided in exit pathways.



 



   6.   Exhibits and decorative materials shall not obstruct, confuse,
or obscure exits, exit pathways, exit signs or emergency lights.



 



   7.   Additional exit pathway markings, such as low level exit signs
and directional exit path markings, may be required.



 



 



SEC. N103.7.  FIRE PROTECTION.



 



   Haunted houses and ghost walks shall be provided with fire protection
systems in accordance with Appendix N103.6.



 



   EXCEPTION: When the total floor area of haunted houses or indoor
portions of ghost walks are less than 1,000 square feet and the travel
distance to an exit is less than 50 feet.



 



 



SEC. N103.7.1.  FIRE SPRINKLER PROTECTION.



 



   An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be required for haunted houses
and indoor portions of ghost walks.  Fire sprinkler systems shall be in
accordance with Section 57.903.



 



 



SEC. N103.7.2.  FIRE DETECTION SYSTEMS.



 



   An approved automatic fire detection system shall be provided in
accordance with Section 57.907.2.12, as required for amusement buildings.



 



 



SEC. N103.7.3.  ALARM.



 



   Activation of any single smoke detector, the fire sprinkler system, or
other automatic fire detection device shall be in accordance with Section
57.907.2.12.1.



 



 



SEC. N103.7.4.  EMERGENCY VOICE ALARM.



 



   Provide an emergency voice/alarm communication system in accordance
with Section 57.907.2.12.3, as required for amusement buildings.



 



 



SEC. N103.7.5.  PORTABLE FIRE EXTINGUISHERS.



 



   Fire extinguishers shall have a minimum 2A:10B:C rating.  Fire
extinguishers shall be properly mounted and shall be visible and accessible
at all times.  Clearly identify locations with signs or reflective tape. 
Fire extinguishers shall be located within 50 of feet travel distance from
anywhere in the building.



 



 



SEC. N103.8.  ELECTRICAL.



 



   When required, a permit shall be obtained from the local building
official.



 



 



SEC. N103.8.1.  EXTENSION CORDS.



 



   Extension cords shall be UL listed and shall be appropriate for the
intended use.



 



 



SEC. N103.8.2.  POWER STRIPS.



 



   Only UL listed power strips with overcurrent protection shall be used
when the number of outlets provided is inadequate.  Power strips shall be
plugged directly into the outlet, and shall not be plugged into one another
in series.



 



 



SEC. N103.8.3.  STRING LIGHTING.



 



   Manufacturer’s installation guidelines shall be followed for the
maximum allowable number of string lights that can be connected.  When
connecting string lights together, the total amperage of all string lights
shall be calculated to ensure that they do not exceed the amperage for the
extension cord and circuit.



 



 



SEC. N103.8.4.  PROTECTION.



 



   All extension cords and power strips shall be adequately protected from
foot traffic.



 



 



SEC. N103.8.5.  PORTABLE GENERATORS.



 



   When portable generators are utilized, they shall be diesel fuel type
and located a minimum of 20 feet away from all structures.



 



 



SEC. N103.9.  DECORATIVE MATERIALS.



 



   Interior wall, ceiling, and floor finishes shall be Class A rated in
accordance with the California Building Code.



 



 



SEC. N103.9.1.  FLAME RETARDANT.



 



   All decorative materials shall be both inherently flame retardant and
labeled as such, or shall be treated with a listed flame-retardant
material.  If the material is treated by the user, a container and receipt
will serve as proof.



 



 



SEC. N103.9.2.  FLAME TEST.



 



   Testing shall be done in accordance with Section 803.5 of this Code, as
referenced from the California Code of Regulations, Title 19, Division 1,
Article 3, Section 3.21(a) and (b).  Proof of testing shall be provided.



 



 



SEC. N103.9.3.  PLACEMENT OF DECORATIVE MATERIALS.



 



   Decorative materials, props and/or performer platforms shall not
obstruct, confuse, or obscure exits, exit signs, exit pathways, emergency
lighting or any component of fire protection systems and equipment (i.e.,
fire extinguishers, fire alarm systems, fire sprinklers, etc.) inside or
outside the building.



 



 



SEC. N103.10.  SMOKE GENERATORS.



 



   Use of smoke-generating equipment may be restricted if determined to be
incompatible with smoke alarm(s).  Care and consideration shall be used with
respect to smoke generator and smoke alarm locations.  Smoke generator and
smoke alarm locations shall be approved by the Fire Department.



 



 



SEC. N103.11.  DISPLAY OF MOTOR VEHICLES.



 



   Display of motor vehicles shall be in accordance with Section
57.2402.18 of this Code.



 



 



SEC. N103.12.  INSPECTIONS.



 



   A fire and life safety inspection shall be conducted by the Fire
Department prior to the start of the event.



 



 



SEC. N103.13.  SIGNS.



 



   “NO SMOKING” signs shall be conspicuously posted at the main
entrance and throughout the exhibit.



 



 



SEC. N103.14.  PROHIBITED AREAS.



 



   Inside storage or use of flammable and/or combustible liquids, gases,
and solids shall be prohibited.  Open flames shall be prohibited.



 



 



SEC. N103.15.  MAINTENANCE.



 



   Good housekeeping shall be maintained at all times throughout exhibit
and exit pathways.



 



 



 



 


Disclaimer:
The information published on this website is updated periodically.
Consequently, there may be delays of up to three (3) months between the
passage of legislation and its posting. Please visit the City of Los Angeles
website at www.lacity.org to see more recently-enacted legislation.


ARTICLE 8
NUISANCES



 



 



Section



58.01   Nuisances – Summary Abatement.



58.02   Weeds, Rubbish, Etc. – Public Nuisance.



58.03   Nuisances – Summary Abatement of Mosquito Breeding Sources.



 



 



SEC. 58.01.  NUISANCES – SUMMARY ABATEMENT.



   (Amended by Ord. No. 175,596, Eff. 12/7/03.)



 



   When the Health Officer, acting under any authority vested in him or
her, orders the abatement of a nuisance or condition within the City of Los
Angeles that endangers the public health, safety and welfare, and the person
or persons responsible for the creation or maintenance of the nuisance fail
to comply with the order, the Health Officer may request the Department of
Public Works or any other department having the necessary workforce and
equipment, to perform the work required to abate the nuisance.



 



   All costs incurred pursuant to this section shall be a personal
obligation against the person or persons responsible for the creation or
maintenance of the nuisance and the owner of the property, recoverable by the
City in an action before any court of competent jurisdiction.  These costs
shall include an amount equal to 40 percent of the cost to perform the actual
work, but not less than the sum of $100.00, to cover the City’s costs for
administering any contract and supervising the work required.  In addition
to this personal obligation and all other remedies provided by law, the City
may collect any judgment, fee, cost, or charge, including any permit fees,
fines, late charges, or interest, incurred in relation to the provisions of
this section as provided in Los Angeles Administrative Code Sections 7.35.1
through 7.35.8.



 



 



SEC. 58.02.  WEEDS, RUBBISH, ETC. – PUBLIC NUISANCE.



   (Added by Ord. No. 160,171, Eff. 8/22/85).



 



   A.   The City Council finds that weeds (as defined in Article 2,
Chapter 13, Part 2, Division 3 or Title 4, commencing at Section 39560 of the
Government Code of the State of California), rubbish and other material
dangerous or injurious to neighboring property or to the health or safety of
residents of the vicinity constitute a public nuisance.



 



   B.   Every owner of any parcel of land or premises who, after
receiving notice as provided by Subsection B. of Section 22.325.1 of the Los
Angeles Administrative Code, fails to abate a public nuisance thereon
consisting of weeds, rubbish or other material dangerous or injurious to
neighboring property or to the health or welfare of residents of the vicinity
by the date specified in the notice or the date upon which the City is
authorized to abate the nuisance pursuant to Section 22.325.1 of the Los
Angeles Administrative Code, whichever date is later, is guilty of a
misdemeanor.



 



 



SEC. 58.03.  NUISANCES – SUMMARY ABATEMENT OF MOSQUITO BREEDING SOURCES.



   (Added by Ord. No. 176,240, Eff. 10/23/04.)



 



   A.   Any standing water on private property which has become a
breeding source for mosquitos is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and
an immediate threat to the public health safety and welfare of the citizens
of Los Angeles.



 



   B.   When the Health Officer or an officer of any Los Angeles County
Vector Control District acting under any authority vested in him or her finds
any standing water on private property which has become a breeding source for
mosquitoes, said officer may issue a written order to abate the standing
water or other condition within the City of Los Angeles that endangers the
public health, safety and welfare of the citizens of Los Angeles.  The owner
or other person or persons responsible for the private property where the
breeding source was found shall have 72 hours to abate or eliminate the
condition which created the breeding source for mosquitos.  Upon the
issuance of the notice to abate the nuisance created by the breeding source
for mosquitos, the owner or other person or persons responsible for the
private property may at no cost to the owner or responsible person request
that the vector control district abate the standing water as a source of
breeding mosquitos.  The owner or responsible person may also choose to
abate the nuisance within the 72 hours allowed.  Any owner or responsible
person who fails to comply with a 72 hour nuisance abatement order issued
pursuant to this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor pursuant to LAMC
Section 11.00(m).



 



   C.   If any officer as described in this code who is lawfully on
private property finds a nuisance as described above and is unable to contact
the owner or other person or persons responsible for the private property in
question within twenty-four hours, said officer may summarily abate the
nuisance at no cost to the owner or responsible person.  If a nuisance has
been abated without the knowledge or permission of the owner or other
responsible person, then the abating officer shall post a notice on the
property in a prominent place that explains exactly where and what steps were
taken to abate the nuisance.



 



   D.   If an owner or responsible person who has been cited to abate a
nuisance within 72 hours fails to do so, any officer described herein may
then summarily abate the nuisance.  All costs incurred to abate the nuisance
pursuant to this section shall be a personal obligation against the owner or
person or persons responsible for the creation or maintenance of the
nuisance, recoverable by the abating organization in an action before any
court of competent jurisdiction.  These costs shall include an amount equal
to 40 percent of the cost to perform the actual work, but not less than the
sum of $100.00, to cover the costs for doing the work, administering any
contract to do the work and/or supervising the work required.  In addition
to this personal obligation and all other remedies provided by law, the
abating organization may collect any judgment, fee, cost, or charge,
including any permit fees, fines, late charges, or interest, incurred in
relation to the provisions of this section as provided in Los Angeles
Administrative Code Sections 7.35.1 through 7.35.8.



 



 



 



 



ARTICLE 9
NOTICES RELATED TO SLAVERY AND HUMAN TRAFFICKING



 



 



Section



59.00   Specified Businesses to Post Notice Related to Slavery and Human
Trafficking.



 



 



SEC. 59.00.  SPECIFIED BUSINESSES TO POST NOTICE RELATED TO SLAVERY AND
HUMAN TRAFFICKING.



   (Article and Section Added by Ord. No. 186,507, Eff. 3/26/20.)



 



   (a)   Definitions.



 



   (1)   "Adult or Sexually Oriented Businesses" is defined to have the
same meaning as how that term is defined in Subdivision (a) of Section 318.5
of the California Penal Code.



 



   (2)   "Primary Airports" is defined to have the same meaning as how
that term is defined in Section 47102(16) of Title 49 of the United States
Code.



 



   (3)   "Truck Stops" means a privately owned and operated facility
that provides food, fuel, shower or other sanitary facilities, and lawful
overnight truck parking.



 



   (4)   "Farm Labor Contractors" is defined to have the same meaning
as how that term is defined in Subdivision (b) of Section 1682 of the
California Labor Code.



 



   (5)   "Hotels, Motels, and Bed and Breakfast Inns" is defined to
have the same meaning as how that term is defined in Subdivision (b) of
Section 24045.12 of the California Business and Professions Code, not
including personal residences.



 



   (b)   Businesses Subject to Posting Requirement.  Each of the
following businesses and other establishments shall post a notice that
complies with the requirements of this section in a conspicuous place near
the public entrance of the establishment or in another conspicuous location
in clear view of the public and employees where similar notices are
customarily posted:



 



   (1)   On-sale general public premises licensees under the Alcoholic
Beverage Control Act (Division 9 (commencing with Section 23000) of the
California Business and Professions Code).



 



   (2)   Adult or sexually oriented businesses.



 



   (3)   Primary airports.



 



   (4)   Intercity passenger rail or light rail stations.



 



   (5)   Bus stations.



 



   (6)   Truck stops.



 



   (7)   Emergency rooms within general acute care hospitals.



 



   (8)   Urgent care centers.



 



   (9)   Farm labor contractors.



 



   (10)   Privately operated job recruitment centers.



 



   (11)   Roadside rest areas.



 



   (12)   Businesses or establishments that offer massage or bodywork
services for compensation and are not described in Paragraph (1) of
Subdivision (b) of Section 4612 of the California Business and Professions
Code.



 



   (13)   Hotels, motels, and bed and breakfast inns.



 



   (c)   Content of Notice.  The notice to be posted pursuant to
Subsection (b) of this section shall be at least 8-1/2 inches by 11 inches in
size, written in a 16-point font, and shall state the following:



 




IF YOU OR SOMEONE YOU KNOW IS BEING FORCED TO ENGAGE IN ANY ACTIVITY AND
CANNOT LEAVE – WHETHER IT IS COMMERCIAL SEX, HOUSEWORK, FARM WORK,
CONSTRUCTION, FACTORY, RETAIL, OR RESTAURANT WORK, OR ANY OTHER ACTIVITY –
TEXT 233-733 (BE FREE) OR CALL NATIONAL SLAVERY AND TRAFFICKING (CAST) AT
1-888-KEY-2-FRE(EDOM) or 1-888-539-2373 TO ACCESS HELP AND SERVICES




 




VICTIMS OF SLAVERY AND HUMAN TRAFFICKING ARE PROTECTED UNDER UNITED STATES
AND CALIFORNIA LAW.




 




THE HOTLINES ARE:





   •   AVAILABLE 24 HOURS A DAY, 7 DAYS A WEEK





   •   TOLL-FREE





   •   OPERATED BY NON-PROFIT, NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS





   •   ANONYMOUS AND CONFIDENTIAL





   •   ACCESSIBLE IN MORE THAN 160 LANGUAGES





   •   ABLE TO PROVIDE HELP, REFERRAL TO SERVICES, TRAINING, AND
GENERAL INFORMATION




 



   (d)   Language of Notices.  The notice to be posted pursuant to
Subsection (b) of this section shall be printed in English, Spanish, Chinese,
and the languages that are spoken by at least 20 percent of the employees
and/or 20 percent of the patrons of the business or establishment subject to
the posting requirement of this section.



 



   (e)   Administrative Process Applicable to Citations.  Unless
otherwise specified herein, all citations issued for violations of this
section shall be subject to the provisions set forth in Article 1.2 of
Chapter 1 of this Code, including, but not limited to, the administrative
hearing and appeal process and the City's authority to use any civil remedy
available to collect any unpaid administrative fine.



 



   (f)   Criminal and Other Remedies Available.  Any violation of this
section may be prosecuted as a misdemeanor.  In cases where the City
Attorney elects to criminally prosecute a violation, the defendant shall be
subject to all applicable penalties authorized by Section 11.00(m) of this
Code.



 



   (g)   Severability.  If any provision of this ordinance is found to
be unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent
jurisdiction, that invalidity shall not affect the remaining provisions that
can be implemented without the invalid provisions, and to this end, the
provisions of this ordinance are declared to be severable.



 



 



 



 


