
Los Angeles Municipal Code


CHAPTER XVII
RULES AND REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE USE OF THE LOS ANGELES AIRPORTS



 




(Added by Ord. No. 173,232, Eff. 6/19/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)




 



 



Section



171.01   Definitions.



171.02   General Provisions.



171.03   Vehicle Transportation.



171.04   Parking.



171.05   Pedestrians.



171.06   Fire Regulations.



171.07   [Solicitation and Receipt of Funds.]



171.08   Noise Regulations Related to Engine Run-ups for Maintenance and
Testing.



 



 



SEC. 171.01.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   (a)   The following words and phrases whenever used in these rules
and regulations shall be construed as defined in this section unless from the
context a different meaning is intended, or unless a different meaning is
specifically defined and more particularly described to the use of such words
or phrases.



 



   (b)   “City” shall mean and have reference to the City of Los
Angeles.



 



   (c)   “Airport” shall mean and have reference to all of the area
comprising the Los Angeles Airport as now existing or as the same may
hereafter be expanded and developed and shall include all of its facilities.



 



   (d)   “Board” shall mean the Board of Airport Commissioners of
the City.



 



   (e)   “General Manager” shall mean the General Manager of the
Department of Airports of the City.



 



   (f)   “Director” shall mean the Airport Director of the Los
Angeles Airport.



 



   (g)   “Person” shall mean and shall include a natural person, a
partnership, firm or corporation.



 



   (h)   “Driveway” shall mean any street or roadway either
improved or unimproved within the boundaries of the Airport set aside or
designated for use by vehicles.



 



   (i)   “Traffic” shall mean pedestrians and vehicles, either
singly or together while using any driveway.



 



   (j)   “Parking Area” shall mean and include any portion of the
Airport which is set aside for the parking of vehicles.



 



   (k)   “Pedestrian” shall mean any person afoot.



 



   (l)   “Vehicles” shall mean a device in, upon or by which any
person or property is or may be propelled, moved or drawn upon a highway,
excepting a device moved by human power.



 



   “Motor Vehicle” is a vehicle which is self-propelled.



 



   “Commercial Vehicle” is a vehicle used or maintained for the
transportation of persons or property for hire, compensation or profit.



 



   (m)   “Loading Zone” shall mean that space adjacent to a curb
reserved for the exclusive use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of
passengers or materials.



 



   (n)   “Police Officer” shall mean any sworn officer of the
Police Department of the City or sworn officer of the Airport Police of the
Department of Airports authorized to enforce these rules and regulations.



 



   (o)   “Park” shall mean to stand or leave standing any vehicle,
whether occupied or not, otherwise, than temporarily for the purpose of and
while actually engaged in the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.



 



   (p)   “Crosswalk” shall mean any portion of a driveway or
parking area distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossings or walks by lines
or other markings on the surface.



 



   (q)   "Aircraft" shall mean all fixed-wing aircraft driven by
turbojet or turbo fan engine. (Added by Ord. No. 186,390, Eff. 12/18/19.)



 



   (r)   "Run-up" shall mean the ground testing or revving of an
Aircraft engine above idle, not immediately connected to contemporaneous air
operation.  (Added by Ord. No. 186,390, Eff. 12/18/19.)



 



   (s)   "Run-up Pad" shall mean an aircraft parking area with blast
fences.  (Added by Ord. No. 186,390, Eff. 12/18/19.)



 



 



SEC. 171.02.  GENERAL PROVISIONS.



 



   (a)   All persons on any part of the Airport shall be governed by
these rules and regulations and any and all persons using the Airport or any
of its facilities shall comply with each and all of these rules and
regulations. All aircraft departing, arriving or flying in the air space
which constitutes the control zone shall be conducted in conformity with
civil air regulations as promulgated by the Federal Aviation Administration.



 



   (b)   No person shall engage in any business or commercial activity
of any kind whatsoever on the Airport without first having applied for and
obtained the appropriate license, lease or permit therefor.



 




   (c)   (1)   No person shall solicit and receive funds inside
the  airport terminals at the Airport.




 



   (2)   No person shall solicit and receive funds in the parking areas
at the Airport.



 



   (3)   No person shall solicit and receive funds on the sidewalks
adjacent to the airport terminals or the sidewalks adjacent to the parking
areas at the Airport.



 



   (4)   Subdivisions (c)(1), (c)(2), and (c)(3) apply only if the
solicitation and receipt of funds is conducted by a person to or with
passers-by in a continuous or repetitive manner.  Nothing herein is intended
to prohibit the distribution of flyers, brochures, pamphlets, books, or any
other printed or written matter as long as such distribution is not made with
the intent of immediately receiving funds, as defined in Subdivision (c)(5),
at the locations referred to in (c)(1), (c)(2), or (c)(3).



 



   (5)   “Solicit and receive funds” means any  written or oral
request for



 



   (A)   the donation of money, alms, property or anything else of
value, or,



 



   (B)   the pledge of a future donation of money, alms, property, or
anything else of value, or,



 



   (C)   the sale or offering for sale of any property upon the
representation, express or implied, that the proceeds of such sale will be
used for a charitable or religious purpose.



 



   (6)   If any provision of Sec. 171.02(c) is declared invalid, the
validity of any other provision contained in Sec. 171.02(c) shall remain in
effect.



 



   (d)   No person shall post, distribute or display signs,
advertisements, posters, billboards, pictures or any printed or written
matter at all on the Airport without a permit so to do.



 



   (e)   No person shall take any still or motion picture on the
Airport for commercial purposes without first having a permit so to do,
except representatives of the press taking pictures for news purposes.



 



   (f)   No person shall drink any intoxicating liquors upon any
portion of the Airport open to the public, except in such restaurant or other
place as shall be properly designated and licensed for on sale liquor
dispensing.



 



   (g)   No person shall become intoxicated on any portion of the
Airport, nor shall any intoxicated person enter upon or loiter on or about
the airport or any of its facilities.



 



   (h)   No person shall bring or permit the bringing upon the Airport
of any dog or other animal, except an assistance (signal, service or guide)
dog, or any other animal designated by State law to assist such persons, or
one properly confined for shipment, unless restrained by leash.



 



   (i)   No person shall accumulate, store or keep any garbage, papers
or waste sweepings or other trash or refuse material upon any portion of the
Airport except in closed metal containers which have been approved by the
Director.



 



   (j)   No person shall use any rest room, toilet or comfort station
except in a clean and sanitary manner.



 



   (k)   No person shall conduct or participate in any gambling in any
form or operate any gambling device or game upon the Airport.



 



   (l)   No person shall commit any disorderly, obscene, indecent or
unlawful act or commit any nuisance upon the Airport.



 



   (m)   No person shall unlawfully or negligently destroy, deface,
injure or disfigure in any way any building, sign, equipment, marker, surface
or any structure, fence, tree, shrub, lawn, flower or other planting or any
other public property on the Airport.



 



   (n)   No person shall enter any restricted area posted as being
closed to the public except those who may be duly authorized so to do.



 



   (o)   In addition to any penalty otherwise provided by law, any
person failing to comply with any of these rules or regulations may be
promptly removed from the Airport and deprived of its use for such period of
time as may be necessary to insure the safety of the Airport and of the
public.



 



   (p)   The General Manager is hereby authorized to erect and install
all signs which may be necessary or advisable in connection with the
operation and enforcement of these rules and regulations.



 



 



SEC. 171.03.  VEHICLE TRANSPORTATION.



 



   (a)   Persons entering the Airport by vehicle shall enter by means
of those driveways which are designated as entrances except as to those
driveways which are used both as entrances and exits.



 



   (b)   No person shall drive any vehicle upon any driveway at a speed
which is not safe, taking into consideration the condition and movement of
traffic on such driveway.



 



   (c)   No person shall drive any vehicle upon any driveway which is
open to public use at a speed greater than fifteen miles per hour, unless
posted otherwise.



 



   (d)   When stop signs are erected and maintained upon any driveway
or adjacent thereto every driver of a vehicle shall stop at such stop sign
except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic control signal.



 



   (e)   All persons driving any vehicle on the driveways of the
Airport shall follow and comply with all signs and signals designating the
direction of traffic.



 



   (f)   The driver of any motor vehicle shall stop before passing over
any cross walk upon any driveway when any pedestrian is using the same and
shall permit such pedestrian to safely cross the driveway before proceeding.



 



 



SEC. 171.04.  PARKING.



 



   (a)   All curbs on driveways at the Airport are marked red, yellow,
white or green. The parking of any vehicle upon any driveway where the curb
marking is red is prohibited at all times. Yellow and white curb markings
indicate respectively loading zone for commercial vehicles and loading zone
for passenger vehicles, and parking on driveways for said purposes and at
green curb markings may be only as hereafter provided.



 



   (b)   Vehicles shall be parked only in those portions of the Airport
set aside and designated and marked as parking areas.



 



   (c)   No person shall park any vehicle upon any part of the Airport
designated as “Restricted Parking Area” or “Private Parking Area”
unless authorized so to do.



 



   (d)   The “Public Parking Area” at the Airport is laid out into
parking spaces marked by white lines so that vehicles may be parked at an
angle from the driveways in such parking area.  Persons using such parking
area shall enter the same only at the place marked as “Entrance” and
shall leave the same only at the place or places marked as “Exit”.  In
entering such parking area all drivers of vehicles shall follow the
instructions of the parking lot attendant and shall park such vehicle in one
of such parking spaces.  No person shall park any vehicle across any line
marking off such parking space and no person shall park his vehicle so as to
use or occupy parts of two such parking spaces or upon any portion of the
parking area marked for crosswalk.  No person shall leave the parking area
without the payment of all fees or charges due for use of such parking area.



 



   (e)   All vehicles parked in the parking area designated for public
parking shall at all times be under the control of the driver or owner of
such vehicle and no parking attendant shall drive or handle such vehicle.



 



   (f)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle within the public
parking area at a speed which is not safe, taking into consideration the
movement of motor vehicles and pedestrians therein, and in no event at a
speed in excess of ten miles per hour.



 



   (g)   The General Manager is hereby authorized to fix and establish
such loading zones as he may deem necessary or advisable.



 



   (h)   No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle in any loading
zone for a greater length of time than is actually necessary for the loading
or unloading of materials and passengers, and in no event for a longer period
than three minutes for the loading or unloading of passengers or for a longer
period than twenty minutes for the loading or unloading of materials.  The
right to load and unload passengers includes the right to load and unload the
actual personal baggage of the passengers.



 



   (i)   Parking on driveways at curbs with green marking is permitted
for a period of not more than ten minutes and no person shall park or cause
to be parked any vehicle on any driveway thus marked for more than ten
minutes.



 



   (j)   The General Manager is hereby authorized to fix and establish
bus, limousine and taxicab stands along the curbs of driveways in such places
as he may deem advisable and buses, limousines and taxicabs being used for
the transportation of persons to and from the Airport may stop and stand at
such stands.  The manner of the use of such stands by buses, limousines and
taxicabs shall be subject to the control of the General Manager.  The driver
and owner of any bus, limousine or taxicab  who violates any instruction of
the General Manager relative to the use of such stands may be denied the use
thereof.



 



   (k)   The General Manager is hereby authorized to designate such
driveway or driveways as he may deem necessary and advisable as service
driveways, and driveways so designated may not be used by vehicles other than
those engaged in furnishing supplies and the like for use in the operation or
conduct of the Airport or the business of lessees located thereon.



 



   (l)   If any vehicle is parked on any driveway of the Airport in
violation of these rules or in such manner as to interfere with traffic the
General Manager or Director is authorized to remove said vehicle to the
public parking area and the owner or operator of said vehicle in addition to
any penalty which may be imposed by law shall be liable for the regular
posted parking charges.



 



 



SEC. 171.05.  PEDESTRIANS.



 



   (a)   No person shall walk along any driveway which is bounded by or
adjacent to a sidewalk.



 



   (b)   No person shall cross any driveway except at marked crosswalks.



 



   (c)   Pedestrians crossing any driveway at marked crosswalks shall
have the right of way over motor vehicles using the driveway.



 



 



SEC. 171.06.  FIRE REGULATIONS.



 



   (a)   No person shall smoke or carry lighted cigarettes, cigars,
pipes, or other exposed flame in any area on the Airport which is posted as
being a “no smoking” area.



 



   (b)   No person shall smoke or have a lit cigarette in any Airport
building or facility except in designated rooms, buildings, or other areas in
which “Smoking Permitted” or similar signs are prominently displayed.



 



   (c)   No person shall use any volatile inflammable substances for
clearing floors inside any building or other enclosed area on the Airport.



 



   (d)   No person shall keep or permit to be kept, stored, or
discarded any inflammable materials of any kind in any hanger, building or
other enclosed area on the Airport unless such inflammable material be kept
in proper receptacles in area specifically approved by the Airport Director
for such purposes and provided that any such storage of inflammable materials
shall be in compliance with all applicable fire prevention laws and
ordinances.



 



   (e)   No person shall store or keep any oily waste, rags, or other
rubbish except in approved metal receptacles with self-closing covers which
are emptied daily.



 



   (f)   Cleaning of Aircraft.  No person shall use inflammable
volatile fluids in the cleaning of aircraft, aircraft engines, propellers,
and appliances unless such cleaning operations are conducted open air, or in
a room specifically set aside for that purpose, which room shall be properly
ventilated, fireproofed, and equipped with readily accessible and adequate
fire extinguishing apparatus.



 



   (g)   No person shall store or stock materials or equipment on the
Airport in such manner as to constitute a fire hazard or in such manner as to
obstruct the proper extinguishment of any fire which might occur.



 



   (h)   No person shall burn any materials or waste at any time on the
Airport without first obtaining a permit to do so from the Director of the
Airport which permit shall specify the time, place and conditions under which
the burning will be permitted, and in no event shall any person burn any
materials or waste except in compliance with all applicable fire prevention
laws, regulations and ordinances.



 



 



SEC. 171.07.  [SOLICITATION AND RECEIPT OF FUNDS.]



   (Added by Ord. No. 174,957*, Eff. 12/16/02.)



 



   (A)   Definitions.



 



   (1)   The definitions contained in Section 171.01 shall apply to
this Section.



 



   (2)   “Solicit and receive funds” shall mean any oral or written
request for funds conducted by a person to or with passers-by in a continuous
and repetitive manner where funds are immediately received.



 



   (3)   “Funds” shall mean (a) money, alms, property or anything
of value, (b) the written pledge of a future donation of money, alms,
property or anything of value; or (c) money or anything of value received
from the sale or offering for sale of any property upon the representation,
express or implied, that the proceeds of the sale will be used for a
charitable or religious purpose.



 



   (4)   “Organization” shall include any person as defined in
Section 171.01(g) or any other entity, group, individual, corporation,
partnership, association, club, or society, whether for profit or otherwise.



 



   (B)   Rules for the Solicitation and Receipt of  Funds at Airport.



 



   (1)   Permit Required. No person or organization shall solicit and
receive funds in any terminal at Airport without first obtaining a written
permit from the General Manager.



 



   (2)   Use of Locations.  Every person or organization holding a
valid permit issued by the General Manager to solicit and receive funds at
Airport shall do so only within those locations assigned in a written permit
issued by the General Manager.



 



   (3)   Rules of Conduct for Persons and Organizations with Airport
Permits. While soliciting and receiving funds in any terminal at Airport,
every person and organization holding a valid airport permit shall comply
with the following rules:



 



   (a)   Information Cards.  No person or organization shall solicit
and receive funds unless an Information Card or an authentic reproduction of
the card, as provided for in Section 44.02, is given or exhibited to the
individual solicited before accepting any funds.



 



   (b)   Display of Badges.  Every person shall wear a badge issued
pursuant to Section 171.07(d)(1) on the upper left front portion of the
garment being worn, so that the badge is fully and clearly visible.  Upon
request, the person shall make the badge available for inspection by, and
shall provide verification of identity to, any law enforcement officer.



 



   (c)   Outside Booth or Area.  No person or organization shall
solicit and receive funds outside the booth or area assigned to the person or
organization for this activity by the General Manager.



 



   (d)   Assigned Locations and Times.  No person or organization
shall solicit and receive funds at any terminal booth or area except during
the days, the times and the locations assigned by the General Manager in a
valid permit.



 



   (e)   Maximum Occupancy.  No person or organization holding a
permit shall occupy or cause a booth or area in any terminal to be occupied
by more individuals than the maximum number specified for that location in
the permit issued by the General Manager.



 



   (f)   Bonafide Representative.  No person shall solicit and receive
funds on behalf of a permitted organization unless that person is a bonafide
representative of the organization.



 



   (g)   Representations.  No person shall represent that he or she is
an agent or representative of the Airport or the City of Los Angeles, or that
his or her activities are sponsored or supported by the Airport or the City.



 



   (h)   Misrepresentations.  No person or organization shall
misrepresent the identity, purpose, cause, or activity of the organization
that he or she represents.



 



   (i)   Checks and Credit/Debit Card Invoices.  No person shall alter
any check, credit card invoice or debit card invoice received as a donation
or contribution.



 



   (j)   Obey All Laws.  Every person and organization shall obey all
City, state and federal laws.



 



   (k)   Boxes and Materials.  No boxes or other materials or
accessories used in conjunction with the solicitation and receipt of funds
shall be placed or deposited on the concourse or floors in any Airport
terminal, except within a booth or area specified by City for that purpose.



 



   (l)   Receipts.  Every person who solicits and receives funds shall
provide a written receipt if requested to do so by the donor.



 



   (m)   Signs and Placards.  No person or organization shall display
or carry, or cause to be displayed or carried, any sign or placard which
exceeds 430 square inches in total area, or which exceeds 1/16 of an inch in
thickness, or which has a staff or handle.



 



   (n)   Sound and Lighting Systems.  No person shall use any type of
sound or voice amplification system, musical instrument, radio system, laser,
lighting system designed to attract attention, vending machine, or other
mechanical sound device.



 



   (o)   Loud and Disruptive Noise.  No person shall sing, chant,
dance, shout, or make any noise in a loud and disruptive manner.



 



   (p)   Food and Drink.  No person shall sell, distribute or hand out
any type of food or drink.



 



   (q)   Litter and Debris.  Every person occupying a booth or area,
designated by City for the solicitation and receipt of funds, shall maintain
it free and clear of litter and debris.



 



   (r)   Furniture.  No person shall erect, place or use any
furniture, table, stand, or structure in a permitted booth or area, without
the express written consent of the General Manager.



 



   (s)   Interference.  No person shall in any way physically obstruct
or interfere with the free movement of any other person.



 



   (t)   Impeding Business.  No person shall in any manner hamper or
impede the lawful conduct of any authorized tenant, airport employee or
business at Airport.



 



   (u)   Touching Others.  No person shall affix, pin, button or
attach any item, flower, pin, or other article or material on, or otherwise
touch, any member of the public unless first given express permission by that
person to do so.



 



   (v)   Cessation of Activities.  Every person shall immediately
cease all activities directed at any individual, when that individual has
indicated his or her unwillingness to listen to the person or accept anything
proffered by the person.



 



   (w)   Unattended Property.  No person shall leave unattended any
bag, container, written material, sign, display or other personal property in
any terminal area at the Airport, except in Airport trash receptacles.



 



   (x)   Obscene Material.  No person shall display or distribute
obscene material.



 



   (y)   Graphic Matter.  No person shall affix any written or graphic
matter to any Airport structure, facility, wall, column, display, bulletin
board, or other Airport or airport tenant property without the written
consent of the General Manager.



 



   (z)   Accident Reports.  Every person involved in an accident in
any terminal at Airport, which results in injury to a person or damage to
property, shall immediately report the occurrence to the Airport Police.



 



   (aa)   Business and Commerce.  No person or organization shall
conduct any type of business or commercial activity pursuant to the permit or
badge issued under this ordinance.



 



   (bb)   Application.  Notwithstanding any provision of this
ordinance to the contrary, the conduct restrictions contained here shall
apply only to persons and organizations who solicit and receive funds in a
terminal at Airport.



 



   (C)   Application for and Issuance of Permits.



 



   (1)   Permit Application.  A permit to solicit and receive funds
shall be issued after a written Airport application form is submitted to the
General Manager containing the following:



 



   (a)   the full name, mailing address and telephone number of the
person or organization applying to conduct the proposed activities;



 



   (b)   the full name, mailing address and telephone number of the
person and organization sponsoring, promoting or conducting the proposed
activities;



 



   (c)   the name and address of each representative authorized to
conduct the solicitation of funds on behalf of the permit applicant;



 



   (d)   the purpose of the proposed activities;



 



   (e)   a description of the proposed activities, indicating the
specific terminal where activities are to occur and the type of communication
to be involved;



 



   (f)   the dates and hours on and during which the activities are
proposed to be carried out, including the expected duration of the proposed
activities;



 



   (g)   the number and names of the persons that propose to engage in
these activities at the Airport at any given time;



 



   (h)   a valid copy of the current City of Los Angeles Information
Card issued to permittee under the provisions of  Section 44.02, or any
successor section, if the section has been determined to be legally
enforceable; and



 



   (i)   the applicant’s tax-exempt status under state and/or federal
law, including copies of any applicable Federal Tax Exempt Status Form
pursuant to United States Internal Revenue Code § 501(c) and California Tax
Exempt Status Form pursuant to California Revenue and Taxation Code § 23701.



 



   (2)   Permit Issuance.  Upon receipt of a fully completed permit
application, the General Manager, or the General Manager’s designee, shall
issue a permit to solicit and receive funds within two days, not counting
weekends, unless:  (i) a permit for the area(s) or booth(s) requested has
already been issued for the date(s) and times(s) specified in the permit
application; or (ii) the conduct of the permit applicant or its
representatives while soliciting funds, on three or more occasions during a
90 day period, has violated the rules of conduct specified in Section
171.07(B) as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction and conviction
on the third violation occurred within six months of the permit application.



 



   (3)   “First Come - First Served” Basis.  The General Manager
shall issue permits each month on a “first come-first served” basis until
all terminal locations have been reserved and assigned.



 



   (4)   30 Day Limit.  The General Manager shall not issue a permit
for a period of time in excess of 30 days.



 



   (5)   Location and Time.  Each permit shall state:  (i) the
terminal booth or area locations assigned; (ii) the day(s) and time(s)
assigned; and (iii) the corresponding number of persons who may solicit funds
at each location.



 



   (6)   Administrative Hearing for Denials.  In the event a permit
application is denied by City, the applicant shall have the right within
three days to request in writing an administrative hearing to determine the
truthfulness of the evidence considered in denying the permit and the
lawfulness of the City’s actions.  The hearing shall be held within five
days of City receiving the applicant’s written request for hearing.



 



   (D)   Issuance of Badges.



 



   (1)   Badges.  Upon issuance of each permit to solicit and receive
funds, City at the same time shall issue a badge to each individual and
representative named in the permit.  Upon the written request of a permittee
for additional badges for new representatives, City shall issues the badges
within three days of receiving the request.  Each badge shall measure
approximately 2 1/4" x 3 1/2" and shall state the time period for which it is
valid, the applicable terminal and permitted location, the name of the
individual, and the name of the permitted organization the individual
represents.



 



   (2)   30-Day Limit.  Badges issued by the General Manager shall be
for the period of time covered by the permit issued, but shall be extended
upon application to cover additional permit time periods not to exceed six
months.



 



   (3)   Free of Charge.  Badges issued under each permit shall be
issued free of charge, however a nominal fee may be charged for the cost of
replacing a lost or mislaid badge in an amount not to exceed the cost of
replacement.



 



   (E)   Airport Terminal Booths and Areas for Permitted Activities.



 



   (1)   Location of Booths and Areas.  Booths and areas shall be
located in each terminal at Airport at public locations as the General
Manager may designate from time to time.  At least one location shall be
designated in each terminal.  Locations shall be selected and designated by
the General Manager, taking into consideration reasonable access by permitted
solicitors to the traveling public, safety, airport security, public
congestion, public egress and ingress, compatibility with airport and tenant
operations near the location, and cost.



 



   (2)   One Organization for Each Booth or Area.  Unless the General
Manager determines that the size of the booth or area is sufficiently large
to safely allow more, at any given time, only one organization shall be
permitted to solicit and receive funds at each designated booth or area
established pursuant to this section.  Use of each particular designated
booth or area shall be limited exclusively to the one or more organizations
scheduled by City to be in that booth or area.  For each designated booth
and area, the General Manager shall establish the maximum total number of
persons that may safely occupy the booth and area for soliciting and
receiving funds.



 



   (3)   Apportionment of Locations.  In the event two or more
organizations seek to solicit and receive funds at the same time at Airport,
the General Manager shall apportion the number of available booths, areas and
times in the various terminals between or among them on as equitable a basis
as possible.



 



   (4)   Duty to Allocate.  When the General Manager receives more
applications for permits than the General Manager is able to grant in
accordance with the rules set out in this section, the General Manager shall
impose other reasonable and equitable restrictions as to allowable dates,
hours or numbers of participants as may reasonably be required to provide
fair opportunities as equal as possible for all applicants, while ensuring
the efficient and effective operation of the Airport.



 



   (F)   Terminations, Suspensions and Denials of Permits and Badges.



 



   (1)   Termination/Suspension.  The General Manager may suspend or
terminate the permit of any person or organization violating any provisions
of Section 171.07(B), including terminating the privilege to solicit and
receive funds in the terminals at Airport, in accordance with the procedures
set forth in this subsection.



 



   (2)   Three Violation Rule.  In the event of three or more
convictions of violating any provisions contained in Section 171.07(B) by the
same person or representatives of the same organization, said violations
having first been determined by a court of law and having all occurred within
a period of ninety days, then upon the third conviction any permit issued to
the person or organization represented shall be terminated.



 



   (3)   Ineligibility for Permit.  Whenever the General Manager has
terminated a permit of any person or organization for a third or successive
violation, the person or organization shall thereafter be ineligible to
receive any permit under this section for a period of six months.



 



   (4)   Hearing.  In the event that the General Manager denies a
permit application, terminates a permit, or suspends a permit, the applicant,
permittee or the permitted organization may, within three days of receiving
written notice of the City’s action, request a hearing by filing written
notice with the General Manager.  Within five days following a request for a
hearing, City shall conduct a hearing to determine whether the denial,
termination or suspension action was lawful.  The City shall exert
reasonable efforts to have a decision rendered on the merits without
unnecessary delay and in all events shall render a decision within three days.



 



   (5)   Emergencies.  The General Manager may immediately suspend any
permit to solicit and receive funds upon the occurrence of an emergency
affecting the safety of persons or property in the terminal buildings or when
required in the implementation of lawful and mandatory security measures.



 



   (G)   Interpretation, Reservations and Exemptions.



 



   (1)   Temporary Nature.  The provisions of this ordinance are
adopted as temporary and provisional pending the outcome of litigation
challenging Los Angeles Municipal Code Section 171.02(c), formerly Los
Angeles Administrative Code Section 23.27(c).



 



   (2)   Inapplicability.  Nothing in Section 171.07 is intended to
prohibit the lawful distribution of flyers, brochures, pamphlets, books or
any other printed or written matter in any airport terminal so long as the
distribution is made without the immediate receipt of funds.



 



   (3)   Savings Clause.  If any provision, section or subsection of
this ordinance is declared invalid, the validity of all other provisions
contained in Section 171.07 shall remain in full force and effect.



 



   (4)   Calculation of Time.  Whenever  any  time limit  or time 
period  is stated in this section, the time shall be calculated excluding
weekends and official City, state and federal holidays.



 



 



SEC. 171.08.  NOISE REGULATIONS RELATED TO ENGINE RUN-UPS FOR MAINTENANCE
AND TESTING.



   (Added by Ord. No. 186,390, Eff. 12/18/19.)



 



   (A)   Definitions.



 



   "Person" shall mean and shall include natural person, aircraft
operator, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company, limited
liability partnership, firm or corporation, but shall exclude the Federal
Aviation Administration and its employees.



 



   (B)   Prohibition.



 



   (1)   Prior to performing Run-ups at any area of the Airport other
than on approved leasehold Run-up Pads, a Person must obtain approval and
instruction from the Airport Response Coordination Center (ARCC) or the
General Manager or his/her designee.



 



   (2)   The Run-up of mounted Aircraft engines for maintenance or test
purposes in any area of the Airport, including on both leased and non-leased
areas, is prohibited between the hours of 2300 - 0600.  The General Manager
or his/her designee may only grant waivers to this prohibition on engine
Run-ups on a case-by-case basis and upon prior notification that the run-up
is necessary.



 



   (C)   Enforcement.  The General Manager and his/her designee shall
have the authority to enforce the provisions of this section.  The General
Manager may promulgate rules and regulations consistent with and to further
the purposes of this section.



 



   (D)   Remedies and Penalties.



 



   (1)   A civil penalty may be imposed and recovered in a civil action
brought in the name of the City of Los Angeles by the City Attorney of Los
Angeles in any court of competent jurisdiction in Los Angeles County.  Funds
recovered thereby shall be placed in the Airport Revenue Fund.



 



   (2)   Any Person who violates any provision of this section shall
receive a letter of admonishment.



 



   (3)   Any Person who violates any provision of this section for a
second time within one year of the first violation shall be subject to a
civil penalty not to exceed $2,000.



 



   (4)   Any Person who violates any provision of this section for a
third time within one year of the first violation shall be subject to a civil
penalty not to exceed $4,000.



 



   (5)   Any Person who violates any provision of this section for a
fourth or any subsequent time within one year of the first violation shall be
subject to a civil penalty not to exceed $8,000.



 



   (6)   The provisions of this section may be judicially enforced by
injunction or other relief deemed appropriate by any court of competent
jurisdiction.



 



   (7)   Any Person who counsels, aids, assists, or abets any other
Person in the operation of any Aircraft in violation of this section is
subject to the same penalties specified in this section.



 



   (8)   The remedies provided under this section are cumulative, and
the election to seek any remedy shall not be deemed to be a waiver of other
remedies at law or equity nor a bar to seek more than one remedy for the same
violation of this section.



 



 



 



 


