
Los Angeles Municipal Code


CHAPTER XVIII
EMPLOYEE WAGES AND PROTECTIONS



 




(Former Chapter XVIII, "Anti-Predatory Loan Ordinance of the City of Los
Angeles", Repealed by Ord. No. 176,579, Eff. 5/22/05; Current Chapter XVIII
Added by Ord. No. 177,231, Eff. 2/13/06;
Title Amended by Ord. No. 183,612, Eff. 7/19/15.)




 



 



   Article



 




      Grocery Worker Retention Ordinance




 




   3   Hotel Worker Retention Ordinance




 




   4   Hotel Service Charge Reform Ordinance




 




   6   Citywide Hotel Worker Minimum Wage Ordinance




 




   7   Los Angeles Minimum Wage Ordinance




 




   8   Los Angeles Office of Wage Standards Ordinance




 




   9   Employers' Use of Criminal History for Consideration of
Employment Applications




 



 



 



GROCERY WORKER RETENTION ORDINANCE



 




(Added by Ord. No. 177,231, Eff. 2/13/06.)




 



 



Section



181.00   Purpose.



181.01   Definitions.



181.02   Grocery Employers' Responsibilities.



181.03   Transition Employment Period.



181.04   Notice to Public.



181.05   Enforcement.



181.06   Exemption for Collective Bargaining Agreement.



181.07   Coexistence with Other Available Relief for Specific Deprivations
of Protected Rights.



181.08   Severability.



 



 



SEC. 181.00.  PURPOSE.



 



   Supermarkets and other grocery retailers are the main points of
distribution for food and daily necessities for the residents of Los Angeles
and are essential to the vitality of any community.  The City has an
interest in ensuring the welfare of the residents of these communities
through the maintenance of health and safety standards in grocery
establishments.  Experienced grocery workers with knowledge of proper
sanitation procedures, health regulations, and understanding of the clientele
and communities they serve are instrumental in furthering this interest.  A
transitional retention period upon change of ownership, control, or operation
of grocery stores ensures stabilization of this vital workforce, which
results in preservation of health and safety standards.  Through this
ordinance, the City seeks to sustain the stability of a workforce that forms
the cornerstones of communities in Los Angeles.



 



 



SEC. 181.01.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   The following definitions shall apply to this chapter:



 



   A.   "City" shall mean the City of Los Angeles.



 



   B.   "Change in Control" shall mean any sale, assignment, transfer,
contribution, or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets
or a controlling interest (including by consolidation, merger, or
reorganization) of the Incumbent Grocery Employer or any Person who controls
such Incumbent Grocery Employer ("IGE Parent") or any Grocery
Establishment(s) under the operation or control of either such Incumbent
Grocery Employer or IGE Parent.



 



   C.   "Eligible Grocery Worker" shall mean any individual whose
primary place of employment is at the Grocery Establishment subject to a
Change in Control, and who has worked for the Incumbent Grocery Employer for
at least six months prior to the execution of the Transfer Document. 
"Eligible Grocery Worker" does not include a managerial, supervisory, or
confidential employee.



 



   D.   "Employment Commencement Date" shall mean the date on which an
Eligible Grocery Worker retained by the Successor Grocery Employer pursuant
to this chapter commences work for the Successor Grocery Employer in exchange
for benefits and compensation under the terms and conditions established by
the Successor Grocery Employer and as required by law.



 



   E.   "Grocery Establishment" shall mean a retail store in the City
of Los Angeles that is over 15,000 square feet in size and that sells
primarily household foodstuffs for offsite consumption, including the sale of
fresh produce, meats, poultry, fish, deli products, dairy products, canned
foods, dry foods, beverages, baked foods and/or prepared foods.  Other
household supplies or other products shall be secondary to the primary
purpose of food sales.  The definition of "Grocery Establishment" shall also
include Superstores as defined in the Los Angeles Municipal Code Section.



 



   F.   "Incumbent Grocery Employer" shall mean the Person that owns,
controls, and/or operates the Grocery Establishment prior to the Change in
Control.



 



   G.   "Person" shall mean an individual, corporation, partnership,
limited partnership, limited liability partnership, limited liability
company, business trust, estate, trust, association, joint venture, agency,
instrumentality, or any other legal or commercial entity, whether domestic or
foreign.



 



   H.   "Retaliatory Action" shall mean the failure to hire, or the
discharge, suspension, demotion, penalization, or discrimination or any other
adverse action against an Eligible Grocery Employee with respect to the terms
and conditions of the Eligible Grocery Worker's employment.



 



   I.   "Successor Grocery Employer" shall mean the Person that owns,
controls, and/or operates the Grocery Establishment after the Change in
Control.



 



   J.   "Transfer Document" shall mean the purchase agreement or other
document(s) effecting the Change in Control.



 



 



SEC. 181.02.  GROCERY EMPLOYERS' RESPONSIBILITIES.



 



   A.   The Incumbent Grocery Employer shall, within fifteen days after
the execution of the Transfer Document, provide to the Successor Grocery
Employer the name, address, date of hire, and employment occupation
classification of each Eligible Grocery Worker.



 



   B.   The Successor Grocery Employer shall maintain a preferential
hiring list of Eligible Grocery Workers identified by the Incumbent Grocery
Employer as set forth in Subsection A. of this section and shall be required
to hire from that list for a period beginning upon the execution of the
Transfer Document and continuing for ninety days after the Grocery
Establishment is fully operational and open to the public under the Successor
Grocery Employer.



 



   C.   If the Successor Grocery Employer extends an offer of
employment to an Eligible Grocery Worker, the Successor Grocery Employer
shall retain written verification of that offer for no fewer than three years
from the date the offer was made.  The verification shall include the name,
address, date of hire, and employment occupation classification of each
Eligible Grocery Worker.



 



 



SEC. 181.03.  TRANSITION EMPLOYMENT PERIOD.



 



   A.   A Successor Grocery Employer shall retain each Eligible Grocery
Worker hired pursuant to this chapter for no fewer than ninety days following
the Eligible Grocery Worker's Employment Commencement Date.  During this
ninety-day transition employment period, Eligible Grocery Workers shall be
employed under the terms and conditions established by the Successor Grocery
Employer, as required by law and pursuant to the terms of a relevant
collective bargaining agreement, if any.



 



   B.   If within the period established in Section 181.02(B) the
Successor Grocery Employer determines that it requires fewer Eligible Grocery
Workers than were required by the Incumbent Grocery Employer, the Successor
Grocery Employer shall retain Eligible Grocery Workers by seniority within
each job classification to the extent that comparable job classifications
exists or pursuant to the terms of a relevant collective bargaining
agreement, if any.  Non-classified Eligible Grocery Workers shall be
retained by seniority and according to experience or pursuant to the terms of
a relevant collective bargaining agreement, if any.



 



   C.   During the ninety-day transition employment period, the
Successor Grocery Employer shall not discharge without cause an Eligible
Grocery Worker retained pursuant to this chapter.



 



   D.   At the end of the ninety-day transition employment period, the
Successor Grocery Employer shall perform a written performance evaluation for
each Eligible Grocery Worker retained pursuant to this chapter.  If the
Eligible Grocery Worker's performance during the ninety-day transition
employment period is satisfactory, the Successor Grocery Employer shall
consider offering the Eligible Grocery Worker continued employment under the
terms and conditions established by the Successor Grocery Employer and as
required by law.  The Successor Grocery Employer shall retain a record of
the written performance evaluation for a period of no fewer than three years.



 



 



SEC. 181.04.  NOTICE TO PUBLIC.



 



   A.   The Incumbent Grocery Employer shall post public notice of the
Change in Control at the location of the affected Grocery Establishment
within five business days following the execution of the Transfer Document. 
Notice shall remain posted during any closure of the Grocery Establishment
and until the Grocery Establishment is fully operational and open to the
public under the Successor Grocery Employer.



 



   B.   Notice shall include, but not be limited to, the name of the
Incumbent Grocery Employer and its contact information, the name of the
Successor Grocery Employer and its contact information, and the effective
date of the Change in Control.



 



   C.   Notice shall be posted in a conspicuous place at the Grocery
Establishment so as to be readily viewed by Eligible Grocery Workers and
other employees, customers, and members of the public.



 



 



SEC. 181.05.  ENFORCEMENT.



 



   A.   Eligible Grocery Workers may bring an action in the Superior
Court of the State of California, as appropriate, against the Incumbent
Grocery Employer or the Successor Grocery Employer for violations of this
chapter and may be awarded:



 



   1.   Hiring and reinstatement rights pursuant to this chapter,
whereupon the ninety-day transition employment period shall not commence
until the Eligible Grocery Worker's Employment Commencement Date with the
Successor Grocery Employer.



 



   2.   Front pay or back pay for each day during which the violation
continues, which shall be calculated at a rate of compensation not less than
the higher of:



 



   a.   The average regular rate of pay received by the Eligible
Grocery Worker during the last three years of the Eligible Grocery Worker's
employment in the same occupation classification; or



 



   b.   The most recent regular rate received by the Eligible Grocery
Worker while employed by either the Incumbent Grocery Employer or the
Successor Grocery Employer.



 



   3.   Value of the benefits the Eligible Grocery Worker would have
received under the Successor Grocery Employer's benefit plan.



 



   B.   If the Eligible Grocery Worker is the prevailing party in any
legal action taken pursuant to this section, the court shall award reasonable
attorney's fees and costs as part of the costs recoverable.



 



 



SEC. 181.06.  EXEMPTION FOR COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT.



 



   Parties subject to this chapter may, by collective bargaining
agreement, provide that the agreement supersedes the requirements of this
chapter.



 



 



SEC. 181.07.  COEXISTENCE WITH OTHER AVAILABLE RELIEF FOR SPECIFIC
DEPRIVATIONS OF PROTECTED RIGHTS.



 



   This chapter shall not be construed to limit an Eligible Grocery
Worker's right to bring legal action for wrongful termination.



 



 



SEC. 181.08.  SEVERABILITY.



 



   If any provision of this chapter is found invalid by a court of
competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions shall remain in full force
and effect.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 3
HOTEL WORKER RETENTION ORDINANCE



 




(Added by Ord. No. 178,083, Eff. 12/30/06.)




 



 



Section



183.00   Purpose.



183.01   Definitions.



183.02   Hotel Employers' Responsibilities.



183.03   Transition Employment Period.



183.04   Notice of Change in Control.



183.05   Retaliatory Action Prohibited.



183.06   Enforcement.



183.07   Exemption for Collective Bargaining Agreement.



183.08   No Waiver of Rights.



183.09   Severability.



 



 



SEC. 183.00.  PURPOSE.



 



   The Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) is among the world's
busiest airports, hosting millions of travelers every year.  The City of Los
Angeles is responsible for the maintenance and operation of LAX, and as a
result of this support, the businesses in the area adjacent to LAX reap
significant economic benefits.  In particular, the hotels in the LAX area
enjoy the highest occupancy rate of all Los Angeles hotels due to their
proximity to the airport.



 



   Past business practices at Los Angeles hotels have resulted in mass
layoffs of hotel workers.  Historically, when corporate ownership or
management of a hotel changes, the new operator closes the hotel for
renovations and reopens with a new workforce; very few, if any, of the former
hotel's employees are retained, and hundreds of workers are displaced. 
While this practice has become less common most areas in Los Angeles, it
nonetheless occurred at an LAX-area hotel during the transfer of the LAX
Wyndham to Pacifica Host Hotels.  The Wyndham was reopened as the current
LAX Radisson, and virtually none of the Wyndham workers were retained to
continue performing basic services that are common at every hotel.



 



   A transitional retention period upon change of ownership, control, or
operation of hotels ensures employment stabilization for a segment of the
community.  It also alleviates the demands for social services provided by
the City and other local governments due to any worker displacement and
resulting unemployment.  Through this ordinance, the City seeks to maintain
the welfare and stability of the LAX-area hotel workforce.  Whereas the
LAX-area hotels derive a distinct benefit from their location near the
airport, they have both the ability and responsibility to support the local
workforce by engaging in fair employment practices.



 



 



SEC. 183.01.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   The following definitions shall apply to this chapter:



 



   A.   "City" means the City of Los Angeles.



 



   B.   "Change in Control" means any sale, assignment, transfer,
contribution, or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets
used in the operation of a Hotel or a discrete portion of the Hotel that
continues in operation as a Hotel, or a controlling interest (including by
consolidation, merger, or reorganization) of the Incumbent Hotel Employer or
any Person who controls the Incumbent Hotel Employer (IHE Parent).



 



   C.   "Employment Commencement Date" means the date on which a Hotel
Worker retained by the Successor Hotel Employer pursuant to this chapter
commences work for the Successor Hotel Employer in exchange for benefits and
compensation under the terms and conditions established by the Successor
Hotel Employer or as required by law.



 



   D.   "Hotel" means a residential building located within the area
designated by ordinance as the Gateway to LA (Century Corridor) Property
Business Improvement District (Century Corridor PBID) that is designated or
used for lodging and other related services for the public, and containing 50
or more guest rooms, or suites of rooms.  "Hotel" also includes any
contracted, leased, or sublet premises connected to or operated in
conjunction with the building's purpose, or providing services at the
building.  If the Century Corridor PBID ceases to exist, the boundaries at
the time of dissolution shall remain in effect for purposes of this article.



 



   E.   "Hotel Worker" means any individual (1) whose primary place of
employment is at a Hotel subject to a Change in Control, (2) who is employed
directly by the Incumbent Hotel Employer, or by a Person who has contracted
with the Incumbent Hotel Employer to provide services at the Hotel subject to
a Change in Control, and (3) who has worked for the Incumbent Hotel Employer
for at least one month prior to the execution of the Transfer Document. 
"Hotel Worker" does not include a managerial, supervisory, or confidential
employee.



 



   F.   "Incumbent Hotel Employer" means the Person that owns,
controls, and/or operates a Hotel subject to a Change in Control prior to the
Change in Control.



 



   G.   "Person" means an individual, corporation, partnership, limited
partnership, limited liability partnership, limited liability company,
business trust, estate, trust, association, joint venture, agency,
instrumentality, or any other legal or commercial entity, whether domestic or
foreign.



 



   H.   "Successor Hotel Employer" means the Person that owns,
controls, and/or operates a Hotel subject to a Change in Control after the
Change in Control.



 



   I.   "Transfer Document" means the purchase agreement or other
document(s) creating a binding agreement to effect the Change in Control.



 



 



SEC. 183.02.  HOTEL EMPLOYERS' RESPONSIBILITIES.



 



   A.   The Incumbent Hotel Employer shall, within 15 days after the
execution of a Transfer Document, provide to the Successor Hotel Employer the
name, address, date of hire, and employment occupation classification of each
Hotel Worker.



 



   B.   The Successor Hotel Employer shall maintain a preferential
hiring list of Hotel Workers identified by the Incumbent Hotel Employer as
set forth in Subsection A. of this section, and shall be required to hire
from that list for a period beginning upon the execution of the Transfer
Document and continuing for six months after the Hotel is open to the public
under the Successor Hotel Employer.



 



   C.   If the Successor Hotel Employer extends an offer of employment
to a Hotel Worker, the Successor Hotel Employer shall retain written
verification of that offer for no fewer than three years from the date the
offer was made. The verification shall include the name, address, date of
hire, and employment occupation classification of each Hotel Worker.



 



 



SEC. 183.03.  TRANSITION EMPLOYMENT PERIOD.



 



   A.   A Successor Hotel Employer shall retain each Hotel Worker hired
pursuant to this chapter for no fewer than 90 days following the Hotel
Worker's Employment Commencement Date.  During this 90-day transition
employment period, Hotel Workers shall be employed under the terms and
conditions established by the Successor Hotel Employer or as required by
law.  The Successor Hotel Employer shall provide Hotel Workers with a
written offer of employment.  This offer shall remain open for at least ten
business days from the date of the offer.



 



   B.   If, within the period established in Section 183.02 B., the
Successor Hotel Employer determines that it requires fewer Hotel Workers than
were required by the Incumbent Hotel Employer, the Successor Hotel Employer
shall retain Hotel Workers by seniority within each job classification to the
extent that comparable job classifications exist.



 



   C.   During the 90-day transition employment period, the Successor
Hotel Employer shall not discharge without cause a Hotel Worker retained
pursuant to this chapter.



 



   D.   At the end of the 90-day transition employment period, the
Successor Hotel Employer shall perform a written performance evaluation for
each Hotel Worker retained pursuant to this article.  If the Hotel Worker's
performance during the 90-day transition employment period is satisfactory,
the Successor Hotel Employer shall consider offering the Hotel Worker
continued employment under the terms and conditions established by the
Successor Hotel Employer or as required by law.  The Successor Hotel
Employer shall retain a record of the written performance evaluation for a
period of no fewer than three years.



 



 



SEC. 183.04.  NOTICE OF CHANGE IN CONTROL.



 



   A.   The Incumbent Hotel Employer shall post written notice of the
Change in Control at the location of the affected Hotel within five business
days following the execution of the Transfer Document.  Notice shall remain
posted during any closure of the Hotel and for six months after the Hotel is
open to the public under the Successor Hotel Employer.



 



   B.   Notice shall include, but not be limited to, the name of the
Incumbent Hotel Employer and its contact information, the name of the
Successor Hotel Employer and its contact information, and the effective date
of the Change in Control.



 



   C.   Notice shall be posted in a conspicuous place at the Hotel so
as to be readily viewed by Hotel Workers, other employees, and applicants for
employment.



 



 



SEC. 183.05.  RETALIATORY ACTION PROHIBITED.



 



   No Hotel Employer employing Hotel Workers shall discharge, reduce in
compensation, or otherwise discriminate against any Hotel Worker for opposing
any practice proscribed by this article, for participating in proceedings
related to this article, for seeking to enforce his or her rights under this
article by any lawful means, or for otherwise asserting rights under this
article.



 



 



SEC. 183.06.  ENFORCEMENT.



 



   A.   Hotel Workers may bring an action in the Superior Court of the
State of California against the Incumbent Hotel Employer or the Successor
Hotel Employer for violations of this article and may be awarded:



 



   1.   Hiring and reinstatement rights pursuant to this article, with
the 90-day transition employment period not commencing until the Hotel
Worker's Employment Commencement Date with the Successor Hotel Employer.



 



   2.   Front pay or back pay for each day during which the violation
continues, which shall be calculated at a rate of compensation not less than
the higher of:



 



   a.   The average regular rate of pay received by the Hotel Worker
during the last three years of the Hotel Worker's employment in the same
occupation classification; or



 



   b.   The most recent regular rate received by the Hotel Worker while
employed by either the Incumbent Hotel Employer or the Successor Hotel
Employer.



 



   3.   Value of the benefits the Hotel Worker would have received
under the Successor Hotel Employer's benefit plan.



 



   B.   If a Hotel Worker is the prevailing party in any legal action
taken pursuant to this section, the court shall award reasonable attorney's
fees and costs as part of the costs recoverable.



 



   C.   Notwithstanding any provision of this Code or any other
ordinance to the contrary, no criminal penalties shall attach for violation
of this article.



 



 



SEC. 183.07.  EXEMPTION FOR COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT.



 



   All of the provisions of this article, or any part of, may be waived in
a bona fide collective bargaining agreement, but only if the waiver is
explicitly set forth in the agreement in clear and unambiguous terms. 
Unilateral implementation of terms and conditions of employment by either
party to a collective bargaining relationship shall not constitute, or be
permitted, as a waiver of all or any part of the provisions of this article.



 



 



SEC. 183.08.  NO WAIVER OF RIGHTS.



 



   Except for bona fide collective bargaining agreements, any waiver by a
Hotel Worker of any or all of the provisions of this article shall be deemed
contrary to public policy and shall be void and unenforceable.  Any attempt
by an Incumbent or Successor Hotel Employer to have a Hotel Worker waive
rights given by this article shall constitute a violation of this article.



 



 



SEC. 183.09.  SEVERABILITY.



 



   If any provision of this article is found invalid by a court of
competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions shall remain in full force
and effect.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 4
HOTEL SERVICE CHARGE REFORM ORDINANCE



 




(Added by Ord. No. 178,084, Eff. 12/30/06.)




 



 



Section



184.00   Purpose.



184.01   Definitions.



184.02   Hotel Employers' Responsibilities.



184.03   Retaliatory Action Prohibited.



184.04   Enforcement.



184.05   Exemption for Collective Bargaining Agreement.



184.06   No Waiver of Rights.



184.07   Coexistence with Other Available Relief for Specific Deprivations
of Protected Rights.



184.08   Severability.



184.09   Administration.



 



 



SEC. 184.00.  PURPOSE.



 



   The Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) is among the world's
busiest airports, hosting millions of travelers every year.  The City of Los
Angeles (City) operates and maintains LAX, and as a result of this support
the businesses in the area adjacent to LAX reap significant economic
benefits.  In particular, the hotels in the LAX area enjoy the highest
occupancy rate of all Los Angeles hotels due to their proximity to LAX.



 



   Despite the high occupancy rates of hotels in the LAX area, many of
these hotels fail to pay their service workers a living wage which in the
City is currently $10.64 per hour without health benefits or $9.39 per hour
with health benefits.  Because of the low hourly wages paid by these hotels,
service employees naturally rely on gratuities paid by hotel customers.



 



   In recent years, hotels in the LAX area have instituted the practice of
adding a "service charge" of 15% to 20% of the bill for banquets and other
large group events.  The service charge is typically listed as a line item
on the bill.  Some hotels pass a portion of the service charge to the
workers who actually performed the services, while other hotels retain the
entire service charge.  Currently, there is nothing illegal about this
practice.  Since hotels have instituted the practice of adding service
charges to bills, many hotel workers have reported a significant reduction in
the gratuities they receive from hotel guests.  Thus, many hotel customers
reduce or eliminate gratuities (tips) they would otherwise pay to service
workers because they assume that the workers receive the "service charges,"
which are added to their bills.



 



   By way of this ordinance, the City seeks to improve the welfare of
service workers at the LAX-area hotels by ensuring that they receive decent
compensation for the work they perform.  Accordingly, to the extent that
LAX-area hotels institute or continue the practice of charging their
customers "service charges," they will be required by this ordinance to pass
the entire service charge on to the workers who actually performed the
services for which the service charges are billed.  Whereas the LAX-area
hotels derive a distinct benefit from their location near LAX, they have both
the ability and responsibility to support the local workforce by engaging in
fair employment practices.



 



 



SEC. 184.01.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   The following definitions shall apply to this chapter:



 



   A.   "City" means the City of Los Angeles.



 



   B.   "Hotel" means a residential building located within the area
designated by ordinance as the Gateway to LA (Century Corridor) Property
Business Improvement District (Century Corridor PBID) that is designated or
used for lodging and other related services for the public, and containing 50
or more guest rooms, or suites of rooms.  "Hotel" also includes any
contracted, leased, or sublet premises connected to or operated in
conjunction with the building's purpose, or providing services at the
building.  If the Century Corridor PBID ceases to exist, the boundaries at
the time of dissolution shall remain in effect for purposes of this article.



 



   C.   "Hotel Employer" means a Person who owns, controls, and/or
operates a Hotel, or a Person who owns, controls, and/or operates any
contracted, leased, or sublet premises connected to or operated in
conjunction with the Hotel's purpose, or a Person who provides services at
the Hotel.



 



   D.   "Hotel Worker" means any individual (1) whose primary place of
employment is at a Hotel, (2) who is employed directly by the Hotel Employer
or by a Person who has contracted with the Hotel Employer to provide services
at the Hotel, and (3) who performs a service for which the Hotel Employer
imposes a Service Charge.  "Hotel Worker" does not include a managerial,
supervisory, or confidential employee.



 



   E.   "Person" means an individual, corporation, partnership, limited
partnership, limited liability partnership, limited liability company,
business trust, estate, trust, association, joint venture, agency,
instrumentality, or any other legal or commercial entity, whether domestic or
foreign.



 



   F.   "Service Charge" means all separately-designated amounts
collected by a Hotel Employer from customers that are for service by Hotel
Workers, or are described in such a way that customers might reasonably
believe that the amounts are for those services, including but not limited to
those charges designated on receipts under the term "service charge,"
"delivery charge," or "porterage charge."



 



   G.   "Willful Violation" means that the Hotel Employer deliberately
failed or refused to comply with its provisions of this article.



 



 



SEC. 184.02.  HOTEL EMPLOYERS' RESPONSIBILITIES.



 



   A.   Service Charges shall not be retained by the Hotel Employer but
shall be paid in the entirety by the Hotel Employer to the Hotel Worker(s)
performing services for the customers from whom the Service Charges are
collected.  No part of these amounts may be paid to supervisory or
managerial employees.  The amounts shall be paid to Hotel Worker(s)
equitably and according to the services that are or appear to be related to
the description of the amounts given by the hotel to the customers.  The
amounts shall be paid to the Hotel Workers in the next payroll following
collection of an amount from the customer.  Without limitation of the
foregoing:



 



   1.   Amounts collected for banquets or catered meetings shall be
paid equally to the Hotel Workers who actually work the banquet or catered
meeting; and



 



   2.   Amounts collected for room service shall be paid to the Hotel
Workers who actually deliver food and beverage associated with the charge.



 



   3.   Amounts collected for porterage service shall be paid to the
Hotel Workers who actually carry the baggage associated with the charge.



 



   B.   This section does not apply to any tip, gratuity, money, or
part of any tip, gratuity, or money that has been paid or given to or left
for a Hotel Worker by customers over and above the actual amount due for
services rendered or for goods, food, drink, or articles sold or served to
the customer.



 



 



SEC. 184.03.  RETALIATORY ACTION PROHIBITED.



 



   A.    No Hotel Employer employing Hotel Workers shall discharge,
reduce in compensation, or otherwise discriminate against any Hotel Worker
for opposing any practice proscribed by this article, for participating in
proceedings related to this article, for seeking to enforce his or her rights
under this article by any lawful means, or for otherwise asserting rights
under this article.



 



 



SEC. 184.04.  ENFORCEMENT.



 



   A.   A Hotel Worker claiming violation of this article may bring an
action in the Superior Court of the State of California, as appropriate,
against a Hotel Employer and may be awarded:



 



   1.   For failure to pay Service Charges required by this article –
Service Charge reimbursement for each violation.



 



   2.   For retaliatory action – reinstatement, back pay, Service
Charge reimbursement or other equitable relief the court may deem appropriate.



 



   3.   For Willful Violations, the amount of monies to be paid under
Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall be trebled.



 



   B.   If a Hotel Worker is the prevailing party in any legal action
taken pursuant to this article, the court shall award reasonable attorney's
fees and costs as part of the costs recoverable.



 



   C.   Notwithstanding any provision of this Code or any other
ordinance to the contrary, no criminal penalties shall attach for violation
of this article.



 



 



SEC. 184.05.  EXEMPTION FOR COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT.



 



   All of the provisions of this article, or any part of this article, may
be waived in a bona fide collective bargaining agreement, but only if the
waiver is explicitly set forth in the agreement in clear and unambiguous
terms.  Unilateral implementation of terms and conditions of employment by
either party to a collective bargaining relationship shall not constitute, or
be permitted, as a waiver of all or any part of the provisions of this
article.



 



 



SEC. 184.06.  NO WAIVER OF RIGHTS.



 



   Except for bona fide collective bargaining agreements, any waiver by a
Hotel Worker of any or all of the provisions of this article shall be deemed
contrary to public policy and shall be void and unenforceable.  Any attempt
by a Hotel Employer to have a Hotel Worker waive rights given by this article
shall constitute a violation of this article.



 



 



SEC. 184.07.  COEXISTENCE WITH OTHER AVAILABLE RELIEF FOR SPECIFIC
DEPRIVATIONS OF PROTECTED RIGHTS.



 



   This article shall not be construed to limit a Hotel Worker's right to
bring legal action for violation of other minimum compensation laws.



 



 



SEC. 184.08.  SEVERABILITY.



 



   If any provision of this article is found invalid by a court of
competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions shall remain in full force
and effect.



 



 



SEC. 184.09.  ADMINISTRATION.



   (Added by Ord. No. 181,199, Eff. 7/24/10.)



 



   The City Council shall by resolution designate the Bureau of Contract
Administration to promulgate rules for implementation of this article and
otherwise coordinate administration of the requirements of this article.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 6
CITYWIDE HOTEL WORKER MINIMUM WAGE ORDINANCE



 




(Added by Ord. No. 183,241, Eff. 11/10/14.)




 



 



Section



186.00   Purpose.



186.01   Definitions.



186.02   Payment of Minimum Compensation to Hotel Workers and Provision of
Time Off.



186.03   Service Charges.



186.04   Incremental Application of Minimum Wage Provisions.



186.05   Notifying Hotel Workers of Their Potential Right to the Federal
Earned Income Credit.



186.06   Retaliatory Action Prohibited.



186.07   Enforcement.



186.08   Exemption for Collective Bargaining Agreement.



186.09   One-year Waiver for Certain Hotel Employers.



186.10   No Waiver of Rights.



186.11   Coexistence with Other Available Relief for Specific Deprivations
of Protected Rights.



186.12   Conflicts.



186.13   Severability.



186.14   Coexistence with Other Ordinances.



 



 



SEC. 186.00.  PURPOSE.



 



   The City has made significant financial investments to create a climate
that has allowed the hospitality industry to thrive in Los Angeles. For
example, the City assists in providing and maintaining free public tourist
attractions and in helping to build and maintain the public transportation
system that carries visitors around the City, including to and from hotels.
The City's investments have helped the hospitality industry, which has
enjoyed three consecutive years of growth, achieve an occupancy rate of 78
percent (far better than the national average of 62 percent) and a "revenue
per room available" rate of $111 – a 14 year high for Los Angeles. Because
hotels receive benefits from City assets and investments and because the City
and its tourist industry benefit from hotels with experienced and content
workers with low turnover, it is fair and reasonable that hotels pay their
employees a fair wage. It will benefit the local economy and benefit City
visitors, residents and businesses.



 



   According to the Economic Development Department, 43 percent of the
people who work in hotels in Los Angeles earn wages that put them below the
federal poverty line. Wages paid to hotel employees are economically
restrictive and prevent many hospitality employees from exercising purchasing
power at local businesses, which takes a toll on the local economy. According
to research based on modeling by the Economic Policy Roundtable, increasing
wages for hotel workers could generate more than $70 million in economic
activity for Los Angeles. These employees, who live paycheck to paycheck, are
frequently forced to work two or three jobs to provide food and shelter for
their families. In many instances, they cannot take time to spend with their
children or care for themselves or family when sick. They also rely on the
public sector as a provider of social support services and, therefore, the
City has an interest in promoting an employment environment that protects
government resources. In requiring the payment of a higher minimum wage, this
article benefits that interest.



 



   In 2007, the Los Angeles City Council passed a living wage ordinance
for workers employed in hotels near Los Angeles International Airport (LAX),
and in 2009 passed an ordinance that raised the wages for airport employees.
The living wage for LAX hotel workers and airport employees has resulted in
higher pay and real benefits for low-income families, and the hotels around
LAX have thrived. In recent years, LAX passenger traffic has steadily
increased (a 4.7 percent increase in 2013, following a 3 percent increase in
2012) in part due to City investment in infrastructure that draws tourists to
Los Angeles and encourages them to come back and visit the City repeatedly.
Tourism is one of the largest industries in the City, hosting millions of
people per year. Hotel workers frequently are the face of the industry,
providing services directly to tourists.



 



   Income equality is one of the most pressing economic, social and civil
rights issues facing Los Angeles. By proceeding incrementally and applying a
minimum wage to hotel workers at larger hotels, including a hardship waiver
for certain affected hotels, and by including the Los Angeles Airport
Enterprise Zone (AHEZ) hotels which are already paying a higher than
state-mandated minimum wage, the City seeks to promote the health, safety and
welfare of thousands of hotel workers by ensuring they receive decent
compensation for the work they perform. The City also seeks to improve the
welfare of hotel workers by mandating that a hotel employer pay service
charges to their workers. When a service charge is listed on customer's bill,
often times there is a reduction in the gratuity to the hotel worker on the
assumption that the service charge is automatically paid to the hotel worker.
This ordinance guarantees that a hotel worker gets paid for any service
charge a customer reasonably would believe is intended for the worker who
actually performed the service.



 



   A large hotel, one containing more than 150 rooms, is in a better
position to absorb the cost of paying living wages to its employees and also
to absorb costs without layoffs. First, large hotels more often are part of
international, national or regional chains. A large hotel that is part of a
chain of hotels may more easily relocate or transfer employees to other
hotels in the chain rather than laying off employees. Second, a large hotel
often has sources of income beyond mere room rental, including special event
revenue, conference revenue and revenue from other hotel amenities such as
gymnasiums, business centers and restaurants. A large hotel is better able
than a small hotel to ensure high room occupancy through access to chain
hotel "reward" points. A large hotel tends to have a larger advertising
budget than a small hotel, which enables a large hotel to advertise more
broadly and extensively, which in turns makes more likely the possibility
that occupants in a large hotel are out of town tourists and business
travelers drawn to the City due, in part, to the City's investment in tourism
and business infrastructure and services. Lastly, a large hotel may more
easily absorb the cost of paying employees a higher wage through the
economies of scale in operating a large hotel compared to the costs of
operating a small hotel.



 



 



SEC. 186.01.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   The following definitions shall apply to this article:



 



   A.   "AHEZ Hotel" means any Hotel within the Airport Hospitality
Enhancement Zone, which encompasses the boundaries of the Gateway to LA
Property Business Improvement District (Gateway to LA PBID), established by
Ordinance Number 177,211, containing 50 or more guest rooms, or suites of
rooms located within that area. "AHEZ Hotel" also includes any contracted,
leased, or sublet premises connected to or operated in conjunction with the
building's purpose, or providing services at the building. If the Gateway to
LA PBID ceases to exist, the boundaries at the time of dissolution shall
remain in effect for purposes of this article.



 



   B.   "City" means the City of Los Angeles.



 



   C.   "Designated Administrative Agency (DAA)" means the Department
of Public Works, Bureau of Contract Administration, which shall publish any
annual wage rate adjustment pursuant to Section 186.02 A. of this article.



 



   D.   "Hotel" means a residential building that is designated or used
for lodging and other related services for the public, and containing 150 or
more guest rooms, or suites of rooms (adjoining rooms do not constitute a
suite of rooms). "Hotel" also includes any contracted, leased or sublet
premises connected to or operated in conjunction with the building's purpose,
or providing services at the building. The number of guest rooms, or suites
of rooms, shall be calculated based on the room count on the opening of the
Hotel or on December 31, 2012, whichever is greater. "Hotel" also includes
all AHEZ Hotels.



 



   E.   "Hotel Employer" means a Person who owns, controls and/or
operates a Hotel in the City, or a Person who owns, controls and/or operates
any contracted, leased or sublet premises connected to or operated in
conjunction with the Hotel's purpose, or a Person who provides services at
the Hotel.



 



   F.   "Hotel Worker" means any individual whose primary place of
employment is at one or more Hotels and who is employed directly by the Hotel
Employer, or by a Person who has contracted with the Hotel Employer to
provide services at the Hotel. "Hotel Worker" does not include a managerial,
supervisory or confidential employee.



 



   G.   "Person" means an individual, corporation, partnership, limited
partnership, limited liability partnership, limited liability company,
business trust, estate, trust, association, joint venture, agency,
instrumentality, or any other legal or commercial entity, whether domestic or
foreign.



 



   H.   "Service Charge" means all separately-designated amounts,
regardless of name or label, collected by a Hotel Employer from a customer
for service by Hotel Workers, or described in such a way that customers might
reasonably believe that the amounts are for the service including, but not
limited to, those charges designated on receipts under the term "service
charge," "delivery charge" or "porterage charge."



 



   I.   "Willful Violation" means that the Hotel Employer deliberately
failed or refused to comply with the provisions of this article.



 



 



SEC. 186.02.  PAYMENT OF MINIMUM COMPENSATION TO HOTEL WORKERS AND PROVISION
OF TIME OFF.



 



   A.   Wages. In accordance with Section 186.04 of this article, Hotel
Employers shall pay Hotel Workers a wage of no less than the hourly rates set
under the authority of this article. The minimum wage for each Hotel Worker
shall be $15.37 per hour, not including gratuities, Service Charge
distributions or bonuses. Starting on July 1, 2017, and continuing
thereafter, this rate shall continue to be adjusted as of July 1 of each year
consistent with any adjustment pursuant to Section 10.37.2(a) of the Los
Angeles Administrative Code. The DAA shall publish a bulletin announcing the
adjusted rates, which shall take effect on July 1 of each year.



 



   B.   Time Off.



 



   1.   Compensated Time Off. A Hotel Employer shall provide at least
96 compensated hours off per year for sick leave, vacation, or personal
necessity to full time Hotel Workers to be made available at the Hotel
Worker's request.



 



   (a)   A full time Hotel Worker is classified as someone who works at
least 40 hours a week or in accordance with the Hotel Employer's policies, if
more generous. A full time Hotel Worker shall accrue at least 96/52 hours of
compensated time off each week in a calendar year that the Hotel Worker has
been employed by the Hotel Employer. Compensated time off does not accrue for
work in excess of 40 hours a week. Full time Hotel Workers that work less
than 40 hours a week will receive the compensated time off in proportional
increments.



 



   (b)   A part time Hotel Worker is classified as someone who works
less than 40 hours per week or in accordance with the Hotel Employer's
policies, if more generous. A part time Hotel Worker shall accrue compensated
time off in increments proportional to that accrued by someone who works 40
hours a week, in accordance with Section 186.02 B.1.(a).



 



   (c)   General Rules for Compensated Time Off.



 



   (i)   A Hotel Worker must be eligible to use accrued paid
compensated time off after the first six months of employment or consistent
with company policies, whichever is sooner.



 



   (ii)   A Hotel Employer may not unreasonably deny a Hotel Worker's
request to use the accrued compensated time off.



 



   (iii)   Unused accrued compensated time off will carry over until
the time off reaches a maximum of 192 hours, unless the Hotel Employer's
established policy is more generous.



 



   (iv)   After a Hotel Worker reaches the maximum accrued compensated
time off, a Hotel Employer shall provide a cash payment once every 30 days
for accrued compensated time off over the maximum. A Hotel Employer may
provide a Hotel Worker with the option of cashing out any portion of, or all
of, the Hotel Worker's accrued compensated time off under the maximum, but,
in no event, shall the Hotel Employer require a Hotel Worker to cash out any
accrued compensated time off. Compensated time off cashed out shall be paid
to the Hotel Worker at the wage rate that the Hotel Worker is earning at the
time of cash out.



 



   (v)   A Hotel Employer may not implement any employment policy to
count accrued compensated time off taken under this article as an absence
that may result in discipline, discharge, suspension, or any other adverse
action.



 



   2.   Uncompensated Time Off. Hotel Employers shall also permit full
time Hotel Workers to take at least 80 additional hours per year of
uncompensated time off to be used for sick leave for the illness of the Hotel
Worker or a member of his or her immediate family where the Hotel Worker has
exhausted his or her compensated time off for that year.



 



   (a)   A full time Hotel Worker is classified as someone who works at
least 40 hours a week or in accordance with the Hotel Employer's policies, if
more generous. A full time Hotel Worker shall accrue at least 80/52 hours of
uncompensated time off each week in a calendar year that the Hotel Worker has
been employed by the Hotel Employer. Uncompensated time off does not accrue
for work in excess of 40 hours a week. Full time Hotel Workers that work less
than 40 hours a week will receive the uncompensated time off in proportional
increments.



 



   (b)   A part time Hotel Worker is classified as someone who works
less than 40 hours per week or in accordance with the Hotel Employer's
policies, if more generous. A part time Hotel Worker shall accrue
uncompensated time off in increments proportional to that accrued by someone
who works 40 hours a week, in accordance with Section 186.02 B.2.(a).



 



   (c)   General Rules for Uncompensated Time Off.



 



   (i)   A Hotel Worker must be eligible to use accrued uncompensated
time off after the first six months of employment or consistent with company
policies, whichever is sooner.



 



   (ii)   A Hotel Employer may not unreasonably deny a Hotel Worker's
request to use the accrued uncompensated time off.



 



   (iii)   Unused accrued uncompensated time off will carry over until
the time off reaches a maximum of 80 hours, unless the Hotel Employer's
established policy is more generous.



 



   (iv)   A Hotel Employer may not implement any employment policy to
count uncompensated time off taken under this article as an absence that may
result in discipline, discharge, suspension, or any other adverse action.



 



 



SEC. 186.03.  SERVICE CHARGES.



 



   A.   Service Charges shall not be retained by the Hotel Employer but
shall be paid in the entirety by the Hotel Employer to the Hotel Worker(s)
performing services for the customers from whom the Service Charges are
collected. No part of these amounts may be paid to supervisory or managerial
employees. The amounts shall be paid to the Hotel Worker(s) equitably and
according to the services that are related to the description of the Service
Charges given by the Hotel Employer to the customer. The amounts shall be
paid to the Hotel Worker(s) in the next payroll following collection of an
amount from the customer, including without limitation:



 



   1.   Amounts collected for banquets or catered meetings shall be
paid equally to the Hotel Worker(s) who actually work the banquet or catered
meeting;



 



   2.   Amounts collected for room service shall be paid to the Hotel
Worker(s) who actually deliver food and beverage associated with the charge;
and



 



   3.   Amounts collected for porterage service shall be paid to the
Hotel Worker(s) who actually carry the baggage associated with the charge.



 



 



SEC. 186.04.  INCREMENTAL APPLICATION OF MINIMUM WAGE PROVISIONS.



 



   A.   Hotels with 300 or More Rooms. On July 1, 2015, Hotel Employers
with Hotels containing 300 or more guest rooms, or suites of rooms shall pay
Hotel Workers according to the provisions in Section 186.02 of this article.



 



   B.   Hotels with 150 or More Rooms. On July 1, 2016, Hotel Employers
with Hotels containing 150 or more guest rooms, or suites of rooms shall pay
Hotel Workers according to the provisions in Section 186.02 of this article.



 



   C.   AHEZ Hotels. On July 1, 2015, AHEZ Hotel Employers shall pay
AHEZ Hotel Workers solely according to the provisions in Section 186.02 of
this article. Prior to July 1, 2015, AHEZ Hotel Employers shall pay their
AHEZ Hotel Workers as provided below (consistent with the former Los Angeles
Municipal Code (LAMC) Sections 104.104 A., 104.104 B. and 104.105 A.):



 



   1.   Wages. AHEZ Hotel Employers shall pay AHEZ Hotel Workers a wage
of no less than $11.03 per hour with health benefits, not including
gratuities, Service Charge distributions, or bonuses, or $12.28 per hour
without health benefits, not including gratuities, Service Charge
distributions, or bonuses.



 



   2.   Compensated Days Off. AHEZ Hotel Employers shall provide AHEZ
Hotel Workers at least 12 accrued compensated days off per year for sick
leave, vacation, or personal necessity at the AHEZ Hotel Worker's request.
AHEZ Hotel Employers shall also permit AHEZ Hotel Workers to take at least an
additional ten accrued days a year of uncompensated time to be used for sick
leave for the illness of the AHEZ Hotel Worker or a member of his or her
immediate family where the AHEZ Hotel Worker has exhausted his or her
compensated days off for that year.



 



   3.   Rate. Health benefits under this article shall consist of the
payment of at least $1.25 per hour towards the provision of health care
benefits for AHEZ Hotel Workers and their dependents. Proof of the provision
of these benefits must be kept on file by the AHEZ Hotel Employer, if
applicable.



 



 



SEC. 186.05.  NOTIFYING HOTEL WORKERS OF THEIR POTENTIAL RIGHT TO THE
FEDERAL EARNED INCOME CREDIT.



 



   Hotel Employers shall inform Hotel Workers of their possible right to
the federal Earned Income Credit (EIC) under Section 32 of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1954, 26 U.S.C. § 32.



 



 



SEC. 186.06.  RETALIATORY ACTION PROHIBITED.



 



   No Hotel Employer shall discharge, reduce in compensation or otherwise
discriminate against any Hotel Worker for opposing any practice proscribed by
this article, for participating in proceedings related to this article, for
seeking to enforce his or her rights under this article by any lawful means,
or for otherwise asserting rights under this article.



 



 



SEC. 186.07.  ENFORCEMENT.



 



   A.   A Hotel Worker claiming violation of this article may bring an
action in the Superior Court of the State of California against a Hotel
Employer and may be awarded:



 



   1.   For failure to pay wages required by this article – back pay
for each day during which the violation continued.



 



   2.   For retaliatory action – reinstatement, back pay and other
legal or equitable relief the court may deem appropriate.



 



   3.   For Willful Violations, the amount of monies to be paid under
Sections 186.07 A.1. and 2. of this article shall be trebled.



 



   B.   If a Hotel Worker is the prevailing party in any legal action
taken pursuant to this article, the court shall award reasonable attorney's
fees and costs as part of the costs recoverable.



 



 



SEC. 186.08.  EXEMPTION FOR COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT.



 



   All of the provisions of this article, or any part of the article, may
be waived in a bona fide collective bargaining agreement, but only if the
waiver is explicitly set forth in that agreement in clear and unambiguous
terms. Unilateral implementation of terms and conditions of employment by
either party to a collective bargaining relationship shall not constitute or
be permitted as a waiver of all or any part of the provisions of this article.



 



 



SEC. 186.09.  ONE-YEAR WAIVER FOR CERTAIN HOTEL EMPLOYERS.



 



   This article is not intended to cause reduction in employment or work
hours for Hotel Workers. Therefore, the City Controller may grant a waiver
from the requirements of this section if a Hotel Employer can demonstrate to
the City Controller by compelling evidence that compliance with this article
would force the Hotel Employer, in order to avoid bankruptcy or a shutdown of
the Hotel, to reduce its workforce by more than 20 percent or curtail its
Hotel Workers' total hours by more than 30 percent. The City Controller shall
reach a determination only after reviewing and auditing, if necessary, the
Hotel Employer's financial condition, with such review or audit paid for, at
rates set by the City Controller, by the Hotel Employer. Any waiver granted
by the City Controller is valid for no more than one year. The City
Controller's determination on a waiver application shall be subject to review
and reversal by a two-thirds vote of the City Council within ten business
days of the City Controller's determination.



 



 



SEC. 186.10.  NO WAIVER OF RIGHTS.



 



   Except for bona fide collective bargaining agreements, any waiver by a
Hotel Worker of any or all of the provisions of this article shall be deemed
contrary to public policy and shall be void and unenforceable. Any attempt by
a Hotel Employer to have a Hotel Worker waive rights given by this article
shall constitute a Willful Violation of this article.



 



 



SEC. 186.11.  COEXISTENCE WITH OTHER AVAILABLE RELIEF FOR SPECIFIC
DEPRIVATIONS OF PROTECTED RIGHTS.



 



   The provisions of this article shall not be construed as limiting any
Hotel Worker's right to obtain relief to which he or she may be entitled at
law or in equity.



 



 



SEC. 186.12.  CONFLICTS.



 



   Nothing in this Chapter shall be interpreted or applied so as to create
any power or duty in conflict with any federal or State law.



 



 



SEC. 186.13.  SEVERABILITY.



 



   If any provision of this article is found invalid by a court of
competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions shall remain in full force
and effect.



 



 



SEC. 186.14.  COEXISTENCE WITH OTHER ORDINANCES.



   (Added by Ord. No. 183,804, Eff. 9/19/15.)



 



   This article is not superseded by any requirement in Article 7 of
Chapter XVIII of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 7
LOS ANGELES MINIMUM WAGE ORDINANCE



 




(Amended In Entirety by Ord. No. 184,320, Eff. 6/6/16.)




 



 



Section



187.00   Purpose.



187.01   Definitions.



187.02   Payment of Sick Time Benefits and Minimum Wage to Employees.



187.03   Deferral Application for Certain Non-Profit Employers.



187.04   Sick Time Benefits.



187.05   Notifying Employees of Their Potential Right to the Federal
Earned Income Credit.



187.06   Retaliatory Action Prohibited.



187.07   Implementation.



187.08   No Waiver of Rights.



187.09   Coexistence with Other Available Relief for Specific Deprivations
of Protected Rights.



187.10   Conflicts.



187.11   Reports.



187.12   Severability.



 



 



SEC. 187.00.  PURPOSE.



 



   According to consultants retained by the City and studies submitted to
the City for its consideration, Los Angeles is a low-wage city with a high
cost of living.  Without action to raise the wage floor, the problems caused
by incomes that are inadequate to sustain working families will become more
acute.  The cost of living is continuing to rise in Los Angeles, and labor
market projections by the California Employment Development Department show
that the number of low-wage jobs will grow faster than the number of mid- and
high-wage jobs.  Inaction will mean that the share of the labor force that
does not receive sustaining pay will grow and the gap between stagnating low
wages and the cost of a basic standard of living in Los Angeles will continue
to widen.



 



   Contrary to popular perception, the large majority of affected workers
are adults, with a median age of 33 (only three percent are teens).  The
proposed minimum wage increase will greatly benefit workers of color, who
represent over 80 percent of affected workers.  Workers of all education
levels will benefit from the proposed law, with less educated workers
benefitting the most.



 



   Los Angeles also ranks highest in California in child poverty rates. 
In short, although the City is experiencing strong economic growth which has
spurred employment, poverty and inequality remain high and wages continue to
stagnate.  Affected workers disproportionately live in low-income families;
on average, affected workers bring home more than half of their family's
income.  Affected workers live disproportionately in the lower-income areas
of the City.  These areas will experience greater earnings gains than the
City as a whole due to a higher minimum wage.  The research literature
suggests that downstream benefits will result from the proposed wage
increase, such as improved health outcomes for both workers and their
children, and increases in children's academic achievements and cognitive and
behavioral outcomes.



 



   Studies show that minimum wage increases reduce worker turnover. 
Turnover creates financial costs for employers.  Reduced worker turnover
means that workers will have more tenure with the same employer, which
creates incentives for both employers and workers to increase training and
worker productivity.



 



   The City has recognized that income inequality is one of the most
pressing economic and social issues facing Los Angeles.  Workers, who must
live paycheck to paycheck, are frequently forced to work two or three jobs to
provide food and shelter for their families.  The City has also recognized
that a worker's ability to have access to sick time is important.  Employees
should be paid for a certain number of days they are sick or for taking care
of ill family members.  These workers often rely on the public sector as a
provider of social support services and, therefore, the City has an interest
in promoting an employment environment that protects government resources. 
Therefore, by paying a higher than state-mandated minimum wage and providing
sick time benefits, the City seeks to promote the health, safety and welfare
of thousands of workers by ensuring they receive a decent wage for the work
they perform and are able to attend to illnesses.



 



 



SEC. 187.01.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   The following definitions shall apply to this article:



 



   A.   "City" means the City of Los Angeles.



 



   B.   "Designated Administrative Agency (DAA)" means the Office of
Wage Standards of the Bureau of Contract Administration, which shall bear
administrative responsibilities under this article.



 



   C.   "Employee" means any individual who:



 



   1.   In a particular week performs at least two hours of work within
the geographic boundaries of the City for an Employer; and



 



   2.   Qualifies as an Employee entitled to payment of a minimum wage
from any Employer under the California minimum wage law, as provided under
Section 1197 of the California Labor Code and wage orders published by the
California Industrial Welfare Commission.



 



   D.   "Employer" means any person, as defined in Section 18 of the
California Labor Code, including a corporate officer or executive, who
directly or indirectly or through an agent or any other person, including
through the services of a temporary service or staffing agency or similar
entity, employs or exercises control over the wages, hours or working
conditions of any Employee.



 



   E.   "Non-Profit Corporation" means a non-profit corporation, duly
organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the
jurisdiction of its incorporation and, if a foreign corporation, in good
standing under the laws of the State of California, which corporation has
established and maintains valid non-profit status under Section 501(c)(3) of
the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and all rules
and regulations promulgated thereunder.



 



   F.   "Person" means any person, association, organization,
partnership, business trust, limited liability company or corporation.



 



   G.   "Wage" means all amounts for labor performed by employees of
every description, whether the amount is fixed or ascertained by the standard
of time, task, piece, commission basis, or other method of calculation, as
defined in California Labor Code Section 200(a).



 



 



SEC. 187.02.  PAYMENT OF SICK TIME BENEFITS AND MINIMUM WAGE TO EMPLOYEES.



 



   A.   An Employer shall pay an Employee a wage of no less than the
hourly rates set under the authority of this article.



 



   B.   Employers with 26 or more Employees shall provide Sick Time
Benefits pursuant to Section 187.04 and pay a wage of no less than the hourly
rates set forth:



 



   1.   On July 1, 2016, the hourly wage shall be $10.50.



 



   2.   On July 1, 2017, the hourly wage shall be $12.00.



 



   3.   On July 1, 2018, the hourly wage shall be $13.25.



 



   4.   On July 1, 2019, the hourly wage shall be $14.25.



 



   5.   On July 1, 2020, the hourly wage shall be $15.00.



 



   C.   Employers with 25 or fewer Employees shall provide Sick Time
Benefits pursuant to Section 187.04 and pay a wage of no less than the hourly
rates set forth:



 



   1.   On July 1, 2017, the hourly wage shall be $10.50.



 



   2.   On July 1, 2018, the hourly wage shall be $12.00.



 



   3.   On July 1, 2019, the hourly wage shall be $13.25.



 



   4.   On July 1, 2020, the hourly wage shall be $14.25.



 



   5.   On July 1, 2021, the hourly wage shall be $15.00.



 



   D.   On July 1, 2022, and annually thereafter, the minimum wage will
increase based on the Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and
Clerical Workers (CPI-W) for the Los Angeles metropolitan area (Los
Angeles-Riverside-Orange County, CA), which is published by the Bureau of
Labor Statistics.  The DAA shall announce the adjusted rates on February 1st
and publish a bulletin announcing the adjusted rates, which shall take effect
on July 1st of each year.



 



   E.   Employees who are 14-17 years of age shall be paid not less
than 85 percent of the minimum wage required by Section 187.02 and rounded to
the nearest nickel during their first 160 hours of employment.  After more
than 160 hours of employment, Employees who are 14-17 years of age shall be
paid the applicable minimum wage pursuant to this article.



 



   F.   A Non-Profit Corporation Employer, which also qualifies as a
Transitional Employer, as defined by Los Angeles Administrative Code (LAAC)
Section 10.31.1(h) ("Non-Profit/Transitional Employer"), can apply to the DAA
for a limited exemption to this article.  This limited exemption shall allow
a "Non-Profit/Transitional Employer" to pay an Employee holding a
Transitional Job, as defined by LAAC Section 10.31.1(g), wages less than
those required under Section 187.02 during the first 18 months of employment
in the Transitional Job.  The intent of this limited exemption is to create
opportunities for the hardest to employ in the City, and shall be construed
strictly in its application to an Employer seeking to qualify as a
"Non-Profit/Transitional Employer."



 



   G.   For purposes of this article, on July 1, 2016, the size of an
Employer's business or Non-Profit Corporation shall be determined by the
average number of Employees employed during the previous calendar year.  The
Employer shall comply solely under either Section 187.02 B. or C., until July
1, 2022, when the rate will be the same under both sections.



 



   H.   For purposes of this article, the size of an Employer's new
business or Non-Profit Corporation in operation after July 1, 2016, shall
initially be determined by the number of Employees employed during its first
pay period.  The Employer shall comply with wages due under the current year
of operation under either Section 187.02 B. or C., until July 1, 2022, when
the rate will be the same under both sections.



 



 



SEC. 187.03.  DEFERRAL APPLICATION FOR CERTAIN NON-PROFIT EMPLOYERS.



 



   The DAA shall establish a procedure to allow an Employer that is a
Non-Profit Corporation on July 1, 2016, with 26 or more Employees to qualify
for the deferral rate schedule specified in Section 187.02 C.  A Non-Profit
Employer seeking the deferral must establish by compelling evidence that:



 



   A.   The chief executive officer or highest paid employee earns a
salary which, when calculated on an hourly basis, is less than five times the
lowest wage paid by the corporation; or



 



   B.   It is a Transitional Employer as defined in Section 10.31.1(h)
of the Los Angeles Administrative Code; or



 



   C.   It serves as a child care provider; or



 



   D.   It is funded primarily by city, county, state or federal grants
or reimbursements.



 



   If a Non-Profit Corporation Employer loses its deferral status at any
time after July 1, 2016, it shall pay wages due in the current year under
Section 187.02 B.



 



 



SEC. 187.04  SICK TIME BENEFITS.



 



   A.   Every Employee who, on or after July 1, 2016, works in the City
for the same Employer for 30 days or more within a year from the commencement
of employment is entitled to paid sick leave.



 



   B.   Paid sick leave shall accrue on the first day of employment or
July 1, 2016, whichever is later.



 



   C.   An Employee may use paid sick leave beginning on the 90th day
of employment or July 1, 2016, whichever is later.



 



   D.   Employers must provide sick leave either:  1) by providing the
entire 48 hours to an Employee at the beginning of each year of employment,
calendar year, or 12-month period; or 2) by providing the Employee one hour
of sick leave per every 30 hours worked.



 



   E.   Employees will be entitled to take up to 48 hours of sick leave
in each year of employment, calendar year, or 12-month period.  Accrued
unused paid sick leave shall carry over to the following year of employment
and may be capped at 72 hours.  An Employer may set a higher cap or no cap
at all.



 



   F.   If an Employer has a paid leave or paid time off policy or
provides payment for compensated time off, that is equal to or no less than
48 hours, no additional time is required.



 



   G.   An Employer shall provide paid sick leave upon the oral or
written request of an Employee for themselves or a family member, as defined
by California Labor Code Sections 246.5(a) and 245.5(c), or for any
individual related by blood or affinity whose close association with the
employee is the equivalent of a family relationship.



 



   An Employer may require an Employee to provide reasonable documentation
of an absence from work for which paid sick leave is or will be used.



 



   H.   An Employer is not required to provide compensation to an
Employee for accrued or unused sick days upon termination, resignation,
retirement, or other separation from employment.



 



   I.   If an Employee separates from an Employer and is rehired by the
Employer within one year from the date of separation, previously accrued and
unused paid sick time shall be reinstated.



 



 



SEC. 187.05.  NOTIFYING EMPLOYEES OF THEIR POTENTIAL RIGHT TO THE FEDERAL
EARNED INCOME CREDIT.



 



   Employers shall inform Employees of their possible right to the federal
Earned Income Credit (EIC) under Section 32 of the Internal Revenue Code of
1954, 26 U.S.C. § 32.



 



 



SEC. 187.06.  RETALIATORY ACTION PROHIBITED.



 



   No Employer shall discharge, reduce in compensation or otherwise
discriminate against any Employee for opposing any practice proscribed by
this article, for requesting to use paid sick leave or actually using paid
sick leave, for participating in proceedings related to this article, for
seeking to enforce his or her rights under this article by any lawful means,
or for otherwise asserting rights under this article.



 



 



SEC. 187.07.  IMPLEMENTATION.



 



   The DAA may promulgate guidelines and rules consistent with this
article for the implementation of the provisions of this article.  Any
guidelines or rules shall have the force and effect of law, and may be relied
upon by Employers, Employees and other parties to determine their rights and
responsibilities under this article.  The DAA may allow an Employer's
established paid leave or paid time off policy or one which provides payment
for compensated time off to remain in place and comply with this article even
though it does not meet all the requirements in Section 187.04, if the DAA
determines that the Employer's established policy is overall more generous.



 



 



SEC. 187.08.  NO WAIVER OF RIGHTS.



 



   Any waiver by an Employee of any or all of the provisions of this
article shall be deemed contrary to public policy and shall be void and
unenforceable.



 



 



SEC. 187.09.  COEXISTENCE WITH OTHER AVAILABLE RELIEF FOR SPECIFIC
DEPRIVATIONS OF PROTECTED RIGHTS.



 



   The provisions of this article shall not be construed as limiting any
Employee's right to obtain relief to which he or she may be entitled at law
or in equity.



 



 



SEC. 187.10.  CONFLICTS.



 



   Nothing in this article shall be interpreted or applied so as to create
any power or duty in conflict with any federal or state law.



 



 



SEC. 187.11.  REPORTS.



 



   Every three years after July 1, 2016, the Chief Legislative Analyst
(CLA) with the assistance of the City Administrative Officer (CAO) shall
commission a study to review the state of the City's economy; minimum wage
impacts; textile and apparel manufacturing impacts; temporary workers, guards
and janitors impacts; home health care services impacts; residential care and
nursing facilities impacts; child day care services impacts; restaurants and
bars impacts; personal and repair services impacts; transitional jobs
programs impacts; service charges, commissions and guaranteed gratuities
impacts; and wage theft enforcement.  On an annual basis, the CLA and CAO
shall collect economic data, including jobs, earnings and sales tax.



 



 



SEC. 187.12.  SEVERABILITY.



 



   If any subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this article is for
any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions of this ordinance.  The City Council hereby declares that it would
have adopted this section, and each and every subsection, sentence, clause
and phrase thereof not declared invalid or unconstitutional, without regard
to whether any portion of the ordinance would be subsequently declared
invalid or unconstitutional.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 8
LOS ANGELES OFFICE OF WAGE STANDARDS ORDINANCE



 




(Title and Article Amended In Entirety by Ord. No. 184,319, Eff. 6/6/16.)




 



 



Section



188.00   Title and Purpose.



188.01   Authority.



188.02   Definitions.



188.03   Postings and Payroll Records.



188.04   Retaliation Prohibited.



188.05   Enforcement.



188.06   Notice of Correction.



188.07   Employee Remedies for Violations.



188.08   Administrative Fines and Penalties for Violations.



188.09   Additional Remedies.



188.10   Administrative Appeal.



188.11   Other Remedies Not Affected.



188.12   Outreach.



188.13   Regulations.



188.14   Reports.



188.15   Severability.



 



 



SEC. 188.00.  TITLE AND PURPOSE.



 



   This article shall be known as the "Los Angeles Office of Wage
Standards Ordinance."  Wage theft occurs when employees are not paid the
wages they are owed by their employers.  Studies have concluded that
employees in Los Angeles are disproportionately affected by the crime of wage
theft in the State of California.  This ordinance creates a new Office of
Wage Standards within the Bureau of Contract Administration of the Department
of Public Works, to enforce violations of wage theft in Los Angeles,
establish penalties and grant authority to the City of Los Angeles Police
Commission to deny, revoke or suspend a police permit issued or requested by
an employer found to have committed wage theft.  By investigating complaints
and holding employers accountable for the sick time benefits afforded to
employees and wages employers owe employees, and by revoking, suspending or
denying a police permit to any noncompliant employer, the City will
communicate to employers that wage theft will not be tolerated in Los
Angeles.  Holding employers accountable further serves as a deterrent to
future actions by employers who otherwise would violate California wage and
labor provisions within the City's boundaries.  Moreover, imposing penalties
and administrative fines for violations of the Los Angeles Minimum Wage
Ordinance and the requirements of this article will also serve as a deterrent
to employers who choose not to follow the law.  The importance of correctly
paying wages due and providing sick time to an employee is one of the highest
mandates for the welfare of employees working in the City.



 



 



SEC. 188.01.  AUTHORITY.



 



   This article is adopted pursuant to the powers vested in the City of
Los Angeles under the laws and Constitution of the State of California and
the City Charter, including but not limited to, the police powers vested in
the City pursuant to Article XI, Section 7 of the California Constitution and
Section 1205(b) of the California Labor Law to ensure compliance with the Los
Angeles Minimum Wage law, Los Angeles Municipal Code Section 187.00, et seq.



 



 



SEC. 188.02.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   As used in this article, the following capitalized terms shall have the
following meanings:



 



   "Division" shall mean the Office of Wage Standards of the Bureau of
Contract Administration within the Department of Public Works.



 



   "City of Los Angeles Police Commission" is defined in Los Angeles
Municipal Code Section 103.01.



 



   "City" shall mean the City of Los Angeles.



 



   "Employee" is defined in Los Angeles Municipal Code Section 187.01 C.



 



   "Employer" shall mean any person, as defined in Section 18 of the
California Labor Code, including a corporate officer or executive, who
directly or indirectly or through an agent or any other person, including
through the services of a temporary services or staffing agency or similar
entity, employs or exercises control over the wages, hours or working
conditions of any Employee.



 



   "Los Angeles Minimum Wage" means a minimum wage adopted by the Los
Angeles City Council pursuant to Los Angeles Municipal Code Section 187.00,
et seq.



 



   "Police Permit" means any permit identified in Los Angeles Municipal
Code Section 103.12.



 



   "Sick Time Benefits" is defined in Los Angeles Municipal Code Section
187.04.



 



 



SEC. 188.03.  POSTINGS AND PAYROLL RECORDS.



 



   A.   Every Employer shall post in a conspicuous place at any
workplace or job site where any Employee works, the notice published each
year by the Division informing Employees of the current Los Angeles Minimum
Wage rate, Sick Time Benefits and of their rights under this article.  Every
Employer shall post notices in English, Spanish, Chinese (Cantonese and
Mandarin), Hindi, Vietnamese, Tagalog, Korean, Japanese, Thai, Armenian,
Russian and Farsi, and any other language spoken by at least five percent of
the Employees at the workplace or job site.  Every Employer also shall
provide each Employee at the time this article becomes effective or at the
time of hire, whichever is later, the Employer's name, address, and telephone
number in writing.  If the information the Employer provided to the Employee
changes, the Employer shall provide the updated information in writing within
ten days of the change.



 



   B.   Every Employer shall retain payroll records pertaining to
Employees for a period of four years, and shall allow the Division access to
such records, with appropriate notice and during business hours, to monitor
compliance with the requirements of this article.



 



   C.   The head of the Division or his or her designee shall have
access to all business sites and places of labor subject to this ordinance
during business hours to inspect books and records, interview employees and
any other relevant witnesses, and investigate such matters necessary or
appropriate to determine whether an Employer has violated any provisions of
this article.



 



 



SEC. 188.04.  RETALIATION PROHIBITED.



 



   It shall be unlawful for an Employer or any other party to discriminate
in any manner or take adverse action against any Employee in retaliation for
exercising rights protected under this article.  Rights protected under this
article include, but are not limited to:  the right to file a complaint or
inform any person about any party's alleged noncompliance with this article;
and the right to inform any person of his or her potential rights under this
article and to assist him or her in asserting such rights.  Protections of
this article shall apply to any Employee who mistakenly, but in good faith,
alleges noncompliance with this article.  Taking adverse action against an
Employee within 90 days of the Employee's exercise of rights protected under
this article shall raise a rebuttable presumption of having done so in
retaliation for the exercise of such rights.



 



 



SEC. 188.05.  ENFORCEMENT.



 



   A.   Reporting Violations.  An Employee or any other person may
report to the Division any suspected violation of the Los Angeles Minimum
Wage, Sick Time Benefits or this article.  The Division shall encourage
reporting pursuant to this article by keeping confidential, to the maximum
extent permitted by applicable laws, the name and other identifying
information of the Employee or person reporting the violation.  With the
authorization of the Employee or person reporting a violation, the Division
may disclose his or her name and identifying information as necessary to
enforce this article or for other appropriate purposes.



 



   B.   Investigation.  The Division shall be responsible for
investigating possible violations of the Los Angeles Minimum Wage, Sick Time
Benefits or this article by an Employer or other person.  The Employer shall
cooperate fully in any investigation by the Division.  The Division shall
have access to all business sites and places of labor subject to this
ordinance during business hours to inspect books and records, interview
employees and any other relevant witnesses, investigate such matters
necessary or appropriate and request the Board of Public Works to issue a
subpoena for books, papers, records, or other items relevant to the
enforcement of this article.  The Employer is required to provide to the
Division its legal name, address, and telephone number in writing.



 



 



SEC. 188.06.  NOTICE OF CORRECTION.



 



   A.   Issuance of Notice of Correction.  After an investigation, if
the Division makes a determination that an Employer has violated the Los
Angeles Minimum Wage, Sick Time Benefits or this article, the Division shall
issue a written Notice of Correction to the Employer.



 



   B.   Service of Notice.  Service of a Notice of Correction shall be
accomplished as follows:



 



   1.   The Division or its designee may obtain the signature of the
Employer to establish personal service of the Notice of Correction; or



 



   2.   The Division or its designee may accomplish substitute service
by mailing the Notice of Correction by certified mail to the Employer's
address as provided in Section 188.03 A.



 



   C.   Contents of Notice of Correction.  The Notice of Correction
shall require the Employer to take corrective action by the date specified
and shall include all the following:



 



   1.   A description of the violation(s);



 



   2.   The date and location of the violation(s);



 



   3.   A citation to the provisions of law violated;



 



   4.   A description of corrective action required, including
reinstatement of employment for retaliation violations;



 



   5.   A statement explaining that each day of a continuing violation
may constitute a new and separate violation;



 



   6.   The amount of wages or Sick Time Benefits due and the amount of
penalties and administrative fines imposed for the violation(s);



 



   7.   A statement informing the Employer that the wages, Sick Time
Benefits, penalties and administrative fines shall be paid to the City of Los
Angeles (or alternatively, to the Employee, if appropriate) within 30 days
from the date on the Notice of Correction, the procedure for payment, and the
consequences of failure to pay;



 



   8.   A description of the process for appealing the Notice of
Correction, including the deadline for filing such an appeal; and



 



   9.   The name and signature of the head of the Division or his or
her designee.



 



   D.   Posting of Notice of Correction.  Employer must, within 24
hours after receipt of a Notice of Correction, post the Notice of Correction
by affixing the notice to a surface in a conspicuous place on property that
is (1) the Employer's principal place of business in the City; (2) if the
Employer's principal place of business is outside the City, the fixed
location within the City from or at which the Employer conducts business in
the City; or (3) if the Employer does not regularly conduct business from a
fixed location in the City, one of the following:  (i) the location where
the Employer maintains payroll records if the Notice of Correction is for
violation of Section 188.03 B.; or (ii) the jobsite or other primary location
where the Employees perform services in the City.



 



   E.   Settlement.  The head of the Division or his or her designee
may convene an informal meeting with the Employer to resolve the corrective
action sought in the Notice of Correction.  The compliance period in Section
188.06 C. and the accrual of penalties and administrative fines may be
temporarily suspended during settlement discussions.  If after meeting the
corrective actions are not resolved, the Division may issue a new compliance
date to the Employer and reinstate the accrual of penalties and
administrative fines.



 



 



SEC. 188.07.  EMPLOYEE REMEDIES FOR VIOLATIONS.



 



   A.   Restitution and Penalties.  Every Employer who violates this
article, or any portion thereof, shall be liable to the Employee whose rights
were violated for any and all relief, including, but not limited to, the
payment to each Employee of wages unlawfully withheld, Sick Time Benefits
unlawfully withheld and an additional penalty of up to $120 per day that each
of the violations occurred or continued.  A violation for unlawfully
withholding wages or Sick Time Benefits shall be deemed to continue from the
date immediately following the date that the wages or Sick Time Benefits were
due and payable as provided in Part 1 (commencing with Section 200) of
Division 2 of the California Labor Code, to the date immediately preceding
the date the wages or Sick Time Benefits are paid in full.  For retaliatory
action by the Employer, the Employee shall be entitled to reinstatement and a
trebling of all wages, Sick Time Benefits and penalties owed.



 



   B.   Civil Enforcement.  Any Employee aggrieved by a violation of
this article, the City Attorney or any other person or entity acting on
behalf of the public as provided for under applicable state law, may bring a
civil action in a court of competent jurisdiction against the Employer
violating this article.  An Employee or the City, upon prevailing, shall be
entitled to such legal or equitable relief as may be appropriate to remedy
the violation, including, without limitation, the payment of any wages
unlawfully withheld, Sick Time Benefits unlawfully withheld, the payment of
penalties in the amount of up to $120 to each Employee whose rights under
this article were violated for each day that either violation occurred or
continued, reinstatement in employment and/or injunctive relief, and shall be
awarded reasonable attorneys' fees and costs.  Any other person or entity
enforcing this article on behalf of the public as provided for under
applicable state law, upon prevailing, shall be entitled only to equitable,
injunctive and/or restitutionary relief, and reasonable attorneys' fees and
costs.  Nothing in this article shall be interpreted as restricting,
precluding, or otherwise limiting a separate or concurrent criminal
prosecution under the Municipal Code or state law.  Jeopardy shall not
attach as a result of any administrative or civil enforcement action taken
pursuant to this article.



 



 



SEC. 188.08.  ADMINISTRATIVE FINES AND PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS.



 



   A.   Penalties.  Every Employer who violates this article, or any
portion thereof, shall be liable to the City for a penalty of up to $50 per
day that either wages or Sick Time Benefits were unlawfully withheld from an
Employee.  A violation for unlawfully withholding wages or Sick Time
Benefits shall be deemed to continue from the date immediately following the
date that the wages were due and payable as provided in Part 1 (commencing
with Section 200) of Division 2 of the California Labor Code, to the date
immediately preceding the date the wages are paid in full.



 



   B.   Administrative Fines.  An administrative fine payable to the
City may be assessed for a violation of any provision of this article as
specified below.  The administrative fine may be assessed by means of a
Notice of Correction issued to the Employer by the Division.



 




VIOLATION AND FINE AMOUNT




 



 



Failure to post notice of the Los Angeles Minimum Wage rate and Sick Time
Benefits - Municipal Code Section 188.03 A.
 
Up to $500


Failure to allow access to payroll records - Municipal Code Section 188.03 B.
 
Up to $500


Failure to maintain payroll records or to retain payroll records for four
years - Municipal Code Section 188.03 B.
 
Up to $500


Failure to allow access for inspection of books and records or to interview
employees - Municipal Code Section 188.03 C.
 
Up to $500


Retaliation for exercising rights under this article - Municipal Code Section
188.04 - The Penalty for retaliation is up to $1,000 per employee.
 
Up to $1,000


Failure to provide employer's name, address, and telephone number in writing
- Municipal Code Sections 188.03 A or 188.05 B.
 
Up to $500


Failure to cooperate with the Division's investigation - Municipal Code
Section 188.05 B.
 
Up to $500


Failure to post Notice of Correction to employees - Municipal Code Section
188.06 D.
 
Up to $500




 



   C.   Calculation of Administrative Fines.  Each and every day that
a violation exists constitutes a separate and distinct violation.  Any
administrative fine assessed within a three-year period in any Notice of
Correction and determined to be a subsequent violation of the same provision
by the same Employer may be increased cumulatively by 50 percent from the
maximum administrative fine allowed.



 



   D.   Payments to City; Due Date; Late Payment Penalty. 
Administrative fines and City penalties shall be payable to the City of Los
Angeles and due within 30 days from the date of the Notice of Correction. 
The failure of any Employer to pay an administrative fine or City penalty
within 30 days may result in the assessment of an additional late fee.  The
amount of the additional late fee shall be ten percent of the total amount of
the administrative fine or City penalty assessed for each month the amounts
are unpaid, compounded to include already accrued late administrative fines
and City penalties that remain unpaid.



 



   E.   Penalties and Fines under Section 188.07 and 188.08.  The
Division shall base its imposition of penalties and administrative fines for
non-compliance with the city's laws after considering factors, including but
not limited to:  1) the extent of harm caused by the violation; 2) the
nature and persistence of the violation; 3) the length of time over which the
violation occurs; 4) the frequency of past violations; 5) any action taken to
mitigate the violation; and 6) the financial burden to the Employer.



 



 



SEC. 188.09.  ADDITIONAL REMEDIES.



 



   The City, when enforcing on behalf of an Employee, has the authority to
require that payment of wages, Sick Time Benefits and/or penalties found to
be due and owing to the Employee, be paid directly to the City for
disbursement to the Employee.  The City, when enforcing on the behalf of an
Employee, has the authority to require that payment of all amounts due under
this article be paid directly to the City.  The failure of an Employer to
pay any amounts due under this article shall constitute a debt to the City. 
The City, as plaintiff and/or judgment creditor, may file a civil action on
behalf of an Employee and/or the City or, to the extent feasible under state
law, create and impose a lien against any property owned or operated by an
Employer or other person who fails to pay wages, penalties and administrative
fines assessed by the Division, or pursue other legal and equitable remedies
available to the City.  The City shall be awarded reasonable attorney's fees
and costs associated with pursuing a violation under this article.



 



   The remedies, penalties and procedures provided under this article are
cumulative and are not intended to be exclusive of any other available
remedies, penalties and procedures.  The City shall study and review the
feasibility of enacting additional measures consistent with state law to
enhance the Division's enforcement tools, including, but not limited to,
pursuing a memorandum of understanding or referral process to the Chief of
Division of Labor Standards Enforcement for the recordation of a certificate
of lien on behalf of an Employee, pursuant to California Labor Code Section
98.2(g), for amounts due under this article.



 



 



SEC. 188.10.  ADMINISTRATIVE APPEAL.



 



   A.   Deadline for Appeal.  An Employer who receives a Notice of
Correction may file with the Division a notice of appeal within 15 days from
the last compliance date specified as part of the Notice of Correction.  In
order to be considered timely, the appeal must be postmarked on or actually
received by the Division by the 15th day following the service of the Notice
of Correction.  The appeal must be in writing and must indicate a return
address.  The appeal must be filed with the Division and must specify in
detail the basis for the appeal.



 



   B.   Hearing Date.  As soon as practicable after receiving the
written notice of appeal, the head of the Division or his or her designee
shall promptly select a hearing officer to hear and decide the administrative
appeal.  The hearing officer shall fix a date, time and place for the
hearing on the appeal.  Written notice of the time and place for the hearing
shall be served by First Class mail, at the return address indicated on the
written appeal.  Service of the notice of hearing on the Employer must be
made at least ten days prior to the date of the hearing.  The hearing shall
be held no later than 30 days after service of the notice of hearing, unless
that time is extended by mutual agreement.



 



   C.   Notice of Hearing.  Except as otherwise provided by law, the
failure of the Employer or any other person affected by the Notice of
Correction to receive a properly addressed notice of the hearing shall not
affect the validity of any proceedings under this article.  Service by First
Class mail, postage prepaid, shall be effective on the date of mailing.



 



   D.   Stay of Enforcement.  If penalties and administrative fines
payable to the City are the subject of administrative appeal or judicial
review, then accrual of such penalties and administrative fines shall be
stayed until the determination of such appeal or review is final.  The
payment of the contested amount of wages, Sick Time Benefits and penalties
owed to the Employee during the pendency of any appeal shall be stayed, but
shall continue to accrue until a determination of such appeal is final.



 



   E.   Failure to Appeal.  Failure of an Employer to file an appeal
in accordance with the provisions of this section or to appear at the hearing
shall constitute a failure to exhaust administrative remedies.  The Notice
of Correction shall become final and enforceable as a Wage Enforcement Order.



 



   F.   Submittals for the Hearing.  No later than five days prior to
the hearing, the Employer and the Division shall submit to the hearing
officer, with simultaneous service by First Class mail on the opposing party,
written information, including, but not limited to, the following:  the
statement of issues to be determined by the hearing officer and a statement
of the evidence to be offered and the witnesses to be presented at the
hearing.



 



   G.   Conduct of Hearing.  The hearing officer shall conduct all
appeal hearings under this article.  The Division shall have the burden of
proof by a preponderance of the evidence in each hearing.  The hearing
officer may accept evidence on which persons would commonly rely in the
conduct of their business affairs, including, but not limited to, the
following:



 



   1.   A Notice of Correction shall be prima facie evidence of the
violation(s) specified therein, and those continuing through the date of the
hearing;



 



   2.   The hearing officer may accept evidence and oral and written
testimony under penalty of perjury relating to the violation(s) and the
appropriate means of correcting the violation(s);



 



   The hearing shall be open to the public and shall be tape-recorded. 
Any party to the hearing may, at his or her own expense, cause the hearing to
be recorded and transcribed by a certified court reporter.  The hearing
officer may continue the hearing and request additional information from the
Division, Employer or Employee prior to issuing a written decision.



 



   H.   Hearing Officer's Findings and Determinations.  Within 15 days
after the conclusion of the hearing, the hearing officer shall make findings
based on the record of the hearing.  The hearing officer may uphold or
reject the violation(s) referenced in the Notice of Correction in whole or in
part.  The hearing officer also may uphold the Notice of Correction but
reduce, waive or conditionally reduce or waive the penalties and
administrative fines stated therein if mitigating circumstances are shown and
the hearing officer finds specific grounds for reduction or waiver in the
evidence presented at the hearing.  The hearing officer may impose penalties
for any additional violations occurring during the pendency of the appeal. 
The hearing officer may impose conditions and deadlines for the correction of
violations or the payment of outstanding wages, Sick Time Benefits, penalties
and administrative fines.



 



   I.   Wage Enforcement Order.  The hearing officer's findings
pursuant to Section 188.10 H. shall constitute the Wage Enforcement Order,
which shall be issued by the hearing officer.  The Wage Enforcement Order
shall specify the amount of wages, Sick Time Benefits, penalties and
administrative fines, if any, owed by the Employer.  The Wage Enforcement
Order shall be final and shall be served on the Employer, Employee and
Division by certified mail.  Pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure
Section 1094.5, the Wage Enforcement Order shall be subject to judicial
review in the appropriate superior court.



 



 



SEC. 188.11.  OTHER REMEDIES NOT AFFECTED.



 



   The administrative enforcement procedures established in this article
shall be in addition to any other criminal, civil or other remedy established
by law which may be pursued to address violations of this article.  A Notice
of Correction or Wage Enforcement Order issued pursuant to this article shall
not prejudice or adversely affect any other action, civil or criminal, that
may be brought to prosecute or abate a violation or to seek compensation for
damages suffered.



 



 



SEC. 188.12.  OUTREACH.



 



   The Division shall establish a community-based outreach program to
conduct education and outreach to Employers and Employees.  In partnership
with organizations involved in the community-based outreach program, the
Division shall create outreach materials that are designed for Employers and
Employees in particular industries.



 



 



SEC. 188.13.  REGULATIONS.



 



   The Division may promulgate and enforce rules and regulations, and
issue determinations and interpretations relating to this article.  Any
rules and regulations promulgated by the Division shall have the force and
effect of law, and may be relied upon by Employers, Employees and other
parties to determine their rights and responsibilities under this article.



 



 



SEC. 188.14.  REPORTS.



 



   The Division shall provide annual reports to the City Council on the
implementation of the Los Angeles Office of Wage Standards Ordinance.



 



 



SEC. 188.15.  SEVERABILITY.



 



   If any subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this article is for
any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions of this ordinance.  The City Council hereby declares that it would
have adopted this section, and each and every subsection, sentence, clause
and phrase thereof not declared invalid or unconstitutional, without regard
to whether any portion of the ordinance would be subsequently declared
invalid or unconstitutional.



 



 



 



ARTICLE 9
EMPLOYERS' USE OF CRIMINAL HISTORY FOR CONSIDERATION OF EMPLOYMENT
APPLICATIONS



 




(Article Added by Ord. No. 184,652, Eff. 1/22/17.)




 



 



Section



189.00   Purpose.



189.01   Definitions.



189.02   Employment Application Procedures.



189.03   Employer Assessment of Criminal History.



189.04   Notice and Posting Requirements for Employers.



189.05   Retaliation Prohibited.



189.06   Record Retention.



189.07   Exceptions from Employment Application Procedures.



189.08   Civil Enforcement.



189.09   Administrative Enforcement.



189.10   Penalty/Administrative Fine Schedule.



189.11   Implementation.



189.12   Other Legal Requirements.



189.13   Conflicts.



189.14   Authority.



189.15   Severability.



 



 



SEC. 189.00.  PURPOSE.



 



   The primary purpose of the restrictions imposed by this ordinance is to
promote public health, safety and welfare by eliminating a barrier to
employment of persons who have been convicted of crimes, reducing recidivism,
facilitating the reintegration into society of persons with conviction
records and decreasing unemployment in parts of the community in which
persons who have been convicted of crimes predominately reside.  This
ordinance shall be referred to as the Los Angeles Fair Chance Initiative for
Hiring (Ban the Box).



 



   Studies show that the disclosure of a criminal conviction by job
applicants on application forms often automatically excludes them from
consideration of employment regardless of any relationship between the
conduct underlying the conviction and the duties and responsibilities of the
job, the length of time since the conduct occurred and the risk of the
conduct reoccurring on the job.  Automatic exclusion of persons with prior
criminal convictions from consideration of employment prevents otherwise
qualified applicants from obtaining employment and may result in employers
hiring less qualified candidates, increases the risk of recidivism of persons
so excluded from consideration and disparately impacts persons of certain
races and national origin.



 



   In 2013, the State Legislature passed and the Governor signed Assembly
Bill No. 218, which amended the State's Labor Code to prevent the State and
local governments from seeking disclosure of conviction history from
employment applicants until the agency has determined the applicant meets the
minimum employment qualifications.  In April 2014, the City of Los Angeles
implemented AB 218 by removing questions regarding criminal convictions from
employment applications, reviewing a job applicant's criminal history only
after a position eligibility list is prepared, and considering, among other
things, the relationship between the conviction and the duties of the
position.



 



   In November 2015, the President of the United States announced that the
federal government and federal contractors could not consider job applicants'
criminal convictions in the initial stages of the employment process. 
Numerous other cities have similarly adopted regulations preventing inquiry
into job applicants' criminal history until after it is determined they are
qualified for the position.  This ordinance limits private employers in Los
Angeles from inquiring into or seeking a job applicant's criminal history
unless and until a conditional offer of employment has been made to that
individual.



 



 



SEC. 189.01.  DEFINITIONS.



 



   The following definitions shall apply to this article:



 



   A.   "Adverse Action" means an Employer's withdrawal or cancellation
of a Conditional Offer of Employment made to an Applicant or a failure or
refusal to employ the Applicant.



 



   B.   "Applicant" means an individual who submits an application or
other documentation for Employment.



 



   C.   "City" means the City of Los Angeles.



 



   D.   "Conditional Offer of Employment" means an Employer's offer of
Employment to an Applicant conditioned only on an assessment of the
Applicant's Criminal History, if any, and the duties and responsibilities of
the Employment position.



 



   E.   "Conviction" means a record from any jurisdiction that includes
information indicating that a person has been convicted of a felony or
misdemeanor, provided that the conviction is one for which the person has
been placed on probation, fined, imprisoned or paroled.



 



   F.   "Criminal History" means information regarding one or more
Convictions, transmitted orally or in writing or by any other means, and
obtained from any source, including, but not limited to, the individual to
whom the information pertains and a Criminal History Report.



 



   G.   "Criminal History Report" means any criminal history report,
including, but not limited to, those produced by the California Department of
Justice, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, other law enforcement or police
agencies, or courts, or by any consumer reporting agency or business or
employment screening agency or business.



 



   H.   "Designated Administrative Agency (DAA)" means the Department
of Public Works, Bureau of Contract Administration, who shall bear
administrative responsibilities under this article.



 



   I.   "Employee" means any individual who:



 



   1.   Performs at least two hours of work on average each week within
the geographic boundaries of the City for an Employer; and



 



   2.   Qualifies as an employee entitled to payment of a minimum wage
from any Employer under the California minimum wage law, as provided under
Section 1197 of the California Labor Code and wage orders published by the
California Industrial Welfare Commission.



 



   J.   "Employer" means any individual, firm, corporation,
partnership, labor organization, group of persons, association, or other
organization however organized, that is located or doing business in the
City, and that employs ten or more Employees, including the owner or owners
and management and supervisorial employees.  "Employer" includes job
placement and referral agencies and other employment agencies.  "Employer"
does not include the City of Los Angeles, any other local governmental unit,
or any unit of the state government or the federal government.



 



   K.   "Employment" means any occupation, vocation, job or work
performed in the City, including, but not limited to, temporary or seasonal
work, part-time work, contracted work, contingent work, work on commission
and work through the services of a temporary or other employment agency, or
any form of vocational or educational training with or without pay.



 



   L.   "Fair Chance Process" means an opportunity for an Applicant to
provide information or documentation to an Employer regarding the accuracy of
his/her Criminal History or Criminal History Report or that should be
considered in the Employer's assessment performed pursuant to Section 189.03,
such as evidence of rehabilitation or other mitigating factors.



 



   M.   "Inquire" means any direct or indirect conduct intended to
gather Criminal History information from or about an Applicant, using any
mode of communication, including, but not limited to, application forms,
interviews and Criminal History Reports.



 



 



SEC. 189.02.  EMPLOYMENT APPLICATION PROCEDURES.



 



   A.   An Employer shall not include on any application for Employment
any question that seeks the disclosure of an Applicant's Criminal History.



 



   B.   An Employer shall not, at any time or by any means, inquire
about or require disclosure of an Applicant's Criminal History unless and
until a Conditional Offer of Employment has been made to the Applicant.



 



 



SEC. 189.03.  EMPLOYER ASSESSMENT OF CRIMINAL HISTORY.



 



   A.   An Employer shall not take an Adverse Action against an
Applicant to whom a Conditional Offer of Employment has been made based on an
Applicant's Criminal History unless the Employer performs a written
assessment that effectively links the specific aspects of the Applicant's
Criminal History with risks inherent in the duties of the Employment position
sought by the Applicant.  In performing the assessment, the Employer shall,
at a minimum, consider the factors identified by the United States Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission and other factors as may be required by
rules and guidelines promulgated by the DAA.



 



   B.   An Employer, prior to taking an Adverse Action against an
Applicant, shall provide that person a Fair Chance Process, including the
provision of written notification of the proposed Adverse Action, a copy of
the written assessment performed pursuant to Section 189.03 A. and any other
information or documentation supporting the Employer's proposed Adverse
Action.  The Employer shall not take an Adverse Action or fill the
Employment position sought by the Applicant for a period of at least 5
business days after the Applicant is informed of the proposed Adverse Action
in order to allow the Applicant to complete the Fair Chance Process.  If the
Applicant provides the Employer with any information or documentation
pursuant to the Fair Chance Process, then the Employer shall consider the
information or documentation and perform a written reassessment of the
proposed Adverse Action.  If the Employer, after performing the reassessment
of the proposed Adverse Action, takes the Adverse Action against the
Applicant, then the Employer shall notify the Applicant of the decision and
provide that Applicant with a copy of the written reassessment.



 



 



SEC. 189.04.  NOTICE AND POSTING REQUIREMENTS FOR EMPLOYERS.



 



   A.   Employers shall state in all solicitations or advertisements
seeking Applicants for Employment that the Employer will consider for
employment qualified Applicants with Criminal Histories in a manner
consistent with the requirements of this article.



 



   B.   Employers shall post a notice informing Applicants of the
provisions of this article in a conspicuous place at every workplace, job
site or other location in the City under the Employer's control and visited
by Employment Applicants, and shall send a copy of the notice to each labor
union or representative of workers with which they have a collective
bargaining agreement or other agreement or understanding that is applicable
to Employees in the City.



 



 



SEC. 189.05.  RETALIATION PROHIBITED.



 



   An Employer shall not discharge, reduce the compensation of, or
otherwise take any adverse employment action against any Employee for
complaining to the City with regard to the Employer's compliance or
anticipated compliance with this article, for opposing any practice
proscribed by this article, for participating in proceedings related to this
article, for seeking to enforce his or her rights under this article by any
lawful means, or for otherwise asserting any rights under this article.



 



 



SEC. 189.06.  RECORD RETENTION.



 



   Employers shall retain all records and documents related to Applicants'
Employment applications and the written assessment and reassessment performed
pursuant to this article for a period of three years following the receipt of
an Applicant's Employment application.  Employers shall, upon request,
provide the records and documents or access to the records and documents to
the DAA in an administrative enforcement proceeding under this article.



 



 



SEC. 189.07.  EXCEPTIONS FROM EMPLOYMENT APPLICATION PROCEDURES.



 



   Sections 189.02, 189.03 and 189.04 A. do not apply in the following
circumstances:



 



   A.   The Employer is required by law to obtain information regarding
a Conviction of an Applicant.



 



   B.   The Applicant would be required to possess or use a firearm in
the course of his or her Employment.



 



   C.   An individual who has been convicted of a crime is prohibited
by law from holding the position sought by the Applicant, regardless of
whether that conviction has been expunged, judicially ordered sealed,
statutorily eradicated or judicially dismissed following probation.



 



   D.   An Employer is prohibited by law from hiring an Applicant who
has been convicted of a crime.



 



 



SEC. 189.08.  CIVIL ENFORCEMENT.



 



   An Applicant or Employee may bring a civil action in a court of
competent jurisdiction against an Employer for violation of this article and
shall be awarded the penalty set forth in this article and any other legal
and/or equitable relief as may be appropriate to remedy the violation.  The
Applicant or Employee shall not bring a civil action unless or until the
Applicant or Employee has reported the alleged violation to the DAA and the
administrative enforcement process set forth in Section 189.09 A. has been
completed or a hearing officer's decision has been rendered as set forth in
Section 189.09 B., whichever is later.  The Applicant's or Employee's civil
action must be filed within one (1) year of the later of the completion of
the DAA's enforcement process or the issuance of the hearing officer's
decision.



 



 



SEC. 189.09.  ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.



 



   A.   An Applicant alleging that an Employer has violated the
requirements of Sections 189.02, 189.03 or 189.04, or an Employee alleging
that an Employer has violated Sections 189.04 and 189.05, may, within one
year of the alleged violation, report the alleged violation to the DAA, which
shall investigate the complaint.  The DAA, as a part of its investigation,
may request the Board of Public Works to issue a subpoena for Employer
records and documents and for books, papers, records and other items relevant
to the enforcement of this article.  Whether based upon a complaint or its
own investigation of a violation of any of the provisions of this article,
where the DAA determines that an Employer has violated this article, the DAA
shall issue a written notice to the Employer of the violation, require the
Employer to immediately cure the violation and may impose an administrative
fine as set forth in this article.



 



   B.   The DAA shall establish rules governing the administrative
process for investigation and enforcement of alleged violations and appeal of
determinations of violations.  The rules shall include procedures for:  (i)
providing notice of an alleged violation to the Employer; (ii) providing the
Employer with the opportunity to respond to the notice; (iii) providing
notice to the Employer and to the Applicant or Employee of the DAA's
determination; and (iv) providing the Employer and the Applicant or Employee
the opportunity to appeal the DAA's determination to a hearing officer.  The
hearing officer's decision shall constitute the City's final decision, and
any review of that decision shall be made by the filing of a petition for
writ of mandate in the Superior Court of the County of Los Angeles under
Section 1094.5 of the Code of Civil Procedure.



 



   C.   The DAA shall maintain a record of the complaints it receives
alleging violations of this article and the resolution of complaints.  The
DAA shall compile a summary of the record of the complaints on an annual
basis and report that summary to the City Council.



 



 



SEC. 189.10.  PENALTY/ADMINISTRATIVE FINE SCHEDULE.




   A.   Penalties and administrative fines for an Employer violation of
any provision of this article, other than Sections 189.04 or 189.06, shall be
up to $500 for the first violation, up to $1,000 for the second violation and
up to $2,000 for the third and subsequent violations.  Penalties and
administrative fines for Employer violations of Sections 189.04 or 189.06
shall be up to $500 for each violation.  The provisions of this subsection
shall not apply prior to July 1, 2017.  Prior to July 1, 2017, the DAA shall
only issue written warnings to Employers that violate this article.



 



   B.   The amount of the penalty or administrative fine imposed may be
based on the willfulness of the Employer's action(s) and other material
factors as determined by the DAA.



 



   C.   For purposes of determining the penalty or administrative fine
to be imposed under this article, Employer violations may be treated as
separate violations and subject to the penalty or administrative fine amounts
set forth therein.



 



   D.   Administrative fines shall be payable to the City of Los
Angeles and due within 30 days from the date of notice to the Employer.  The
failure of any Employer to pay an administrative fine within 30 days shall
result in the assessment of a late fee.  The amount of the late fee shall be
ten percent of the total amount of the administrative fine assessed for each
month the amount is unpaid, compounded to include already accrued late
administrative fines that remain unpaid.



 



   E.   The failure of any Employer to pay amounts due to the City
under this article when due shall constitute a debt to the City.  The City
may file a civil action or pursue any other legal remedy to collect amounts
due.



 



   F.   The administrative fine paid by an Employer for a violation of
this article may be awarded by the City to the Applicant or Employee up to a
maximum of $500 per violation.



 



   G.   Nothing in this article shall be interpreted as restricting,
precluding, or otherwise limiting a separate or concurrent criminal
prosecution under the Municipal Code or any applicable state or federal law.



 



 



SEC. 189.11.  IMPLEMENTATION.



 



   The DAA may promulgate guidelines and rules consistent with this
article for the implementation of the provisions of this article. 
Guidelines and rules shall have the force and effect of law.



 



 



SEC. 189.12.  OTHER LEGAL REQUIREMENTS.



 



   This article provides the minimum requirements pertaining to the
protection of Applicants and shall not be construed to preempt, limit or
otherwise affect the applicability of any other law, regulation, requirement,
policy or standard, or, with regard to employment, any provision of a
collective bargaining agreement, that provides for greater or other rights of
or protections for Applicants.  This provision shall apply both to laws,
regulations, requirements, policies, standards and collective bargaining
agreements in existence at the time the article becomes operative, and to
those that come into existence thereafter.



 



 



SEC. 189.13.  CONFLICTS.



 



   Nothing in this article shall be interpreted or applied so as to create
any requirement, power or duty in conflict with federal or state law. 
Specifically, the requirements of this article are not intended to limit,
restrict or nullify any duty, right or obligation of an Applicant or an
Employer under the Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, (42
U.S.C. § 2000e, et seq.) and the enforcement guidelines promulgated by the
U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.



 



 



SEC. 189.14.  AUTHORITY.



 



   This article is adopted pursuant to the police powers vested in the
City under the Constitution of the State of California and the City Charter,
and is intended to promote the general welfare.  The City is not assuming,
nor is it imposing on its officers and employees, an obligation for breach of
which the City or its officers or employees are liable for damages of any
kind, including monetary damages, to any person who claims that such breach
proximately caused injury.  This article does not create a legally
enforceable right against the City.



 



 



SEC. 189.15.  SEVERABILITY.



 



   If any part or provision of this article, including, but not limited
to, a section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, phrase or word, or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance, is held invalid or
unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall
not affect the validity of the remainder of this article. The City Council
hereby declares that it would have adopted this article, and each and every
section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, phrase and word hereof not declared
invalid or unconstitutional, without regard to whether any portion of this
article would be subsequently declared invalid or unconstitutional.



 



 



 



 


